                                   Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                     Report No: ICR0000524




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
           (IDA-H0720 IDA-H1740 IDA-H2090 JPN-54367 MULT-53939)




                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.1 MILLION
                        (US$95 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                    FOR AN

               EMERGENCY NATIONAL SOLIDARITY PROJECT




                                October 24, 2007




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Afghanistan
South Asia Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

                      Currency Unit =
                 Afg Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.20
                US$ 1.00 = Afg Rs 50.00

                      FISCAL YEAR


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



     Vice President: Praful Patel
   Country Director: Alastair J. McKechnie
    Sector Manager: Adolfo Brizzi
Project Team Leader: Susanne Holste/Nihal Fernando
  ICR Team Leader: Asger Christensen

                                        AFGHANISTAN
                     Emergency National Solidarity Project


                                            CONTENTS


                                                                                                                Page


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
MAP

                           ACRONYMS




AFMIS    Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CDC      Community Development Council
CDP      Community Development Plan
DAB      Da Afghanistan Bank (Central Bank)
DSCRW    District School Construction and Rehabilitation Window
ECEPWP   Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FP       Facilitating Partner
JSDF     Japanese Social Development Fund
I-ANDS   Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy
IDA      International Development Association
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
MIS      Management Information System
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MRRD     Ministry of Reconstruction & Rural Development
NGO      Non Government Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
NRVA     National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment
NSP      National Solidarity Project
OC       Oversight Consultant
SDU      Special Disbursement Unit in MoF

A. Basic Information

                                                                   Afghanistan:
Country:              Afghanistan            Project Name:         Emergency National
                                                                   Solidarity Project
                                                                   IDA-H0720,IDA-
                                                                   H1740,IDA-
Project ID:           P084329                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                   H2090,JPN-
                                                                   54367,MULT-53939
ICR Date:             02/21/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:   SIL                    Borrower:             TISA
Original Total
                      USD 95.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 166.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Rural Reconstruction & Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
JAPAN
Netherlands
SWITZERLAND
Norway
Denmark
ARTF


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:      09/30/2003     Effectiveness:       04/05/2004         04/05/2004
Appraisal:           11/20/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:            12/23/2003     Mid-term Review:     03/15/2006
                                    Closing:             03/31/2007         03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Substantial
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory



                                             i

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:         Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:             Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                          25                   17
Micro- and SME finance                                           10                    4
Primary education                                                25                    7
Renewable energy                                                 20                   20
Rural Roads                                                        -                  27
Water supply                                                     20                   25


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction           Secondary           Secondary
Gender                                                         Secondary           Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary             Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Primary             Primary
Social risk mitigation                                         Secondary           Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Alastair J. McKechnie              Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:           Adolfo Brizzi                      Gajanand Pathmanathan
Project Team Leader:      Susanne Holste                     Asger Christensen
ICR Team Leader:          Asger Christensen
ICR Primary Author:       Asger Christensen


                                               ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are (i) to lay the foundations for a strengthening of
community level governance, and (ii) to support community-managed sub-projects
comprising reconstruction and development that improve access of rural communities to
social and productive infrastructure and services.           The outcomes will be (i) the
establishment of a framework for village level consultative decision making and
representative local leadership as a basis for interaction within and between communities
on the one hand, and with the administration and aid agencies on the other, and (ii) local
level reconstruction, development, and capacity building which will lead to a decrease in
poverty levels.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of Community Development Councils (CDCs) elected.

Value           6,181 (Baseline is output 8,334 (ie 80% of
quantitative or achieved by the ECEPWP total   number of                    16,502
Qualitative)    by Dec. 31 2004)          target villages,
                                          which is 10,417).
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2007                        03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Within the project period from 01/01/2005 till 03/31/2007, 10,321 CDCs were

achievement)    elected representing 124% achievement of the target of 8,334 for the period

Indicator 2 :   Number of villages with community development plans.

Value           6,181 (Baseline is output
quantitative or achieved by the ECEPWP 8,000                                16,263
Qualitative)    by Dec. 31 2004)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2007                        03/31/2007
Comments        Within the project period from 01/01/2005 till 03/31/2007, 10,082 CDPs were
(incl. %        developed representing a 126% achievement of the target of 8,000 for the
achievement)    period.
Indicator 3 :   Percentage of women who participate in CDC elections.
Value           >90% (Baseline is output
quantitative or achieved by the ECEPWP 40%                                  >50%
Qualitative)    by Dec. 31 2004)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2007                        03/31/2007


                                               iii

Comments        Despite the rigid gender segregation in rural Afghanistan, participation of women

(incl. %        in CDC election is often above 40%, and on average, 35% of the CDC reps are

achievement)    female. A key constraint was the difficulty in recruiting local female staff for the
                FPs.
Indicator 4 :   Percentage of communities contributing 10% of sub-project costs.
Value           >90%(Baseline is output
quantitative or achieved by the ECEPWP 90%                                     100%
Qualitative)    by Dec. 31 2004)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2007                           03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The average community contribution is assessed to be 14.5% equivalent to

achievement)    US$32 million.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                          Achieved at
                                               approval            Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of villages with completed sub-projects (with certificate of completion)

Value           53(Baseline is output     4,167 (ie 50% of

(quantitative   achieved by the ECEPWP number      of villages                 10,410
or Qualitative) by Dec. 31 2004)          where CDCs are
                                          elected).
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2007                           03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Within the project period from 01/01/2005 till 03/31/2007, the achievement is

achievement)    10,357 which is 250% above target of 4,167 for the period.

Indicator 2 :   Number of families benefited (ie. in villages that have received at least part of
                their block grants).

Value           496,833 (Baseline is

(quantitative   output achieved by the    1,260,000                            2,216,917
or Qualitative) ECEPWP by Dec. 31
                2004)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                  03/31/2007                           03/31/2007
Comments        Within the project period from 01/01/2005 till 03/31/2007, the achievement is
(incl. %        1,720,084 beneficiary families, which is 138% above target of 1.25 million
achievement)    families for the period.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                         IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/22/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        8.22
  2     10/06/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      36.50
  3     05/07/2005            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      78.98
  4     12/19/2005            Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                   125.39


                                               iv

  5   06/05/2006         Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory    125.39
  6   12/18/2006      Highly Satisfactory  Highly Satisfactory    162.12



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Even before Afghanistan became engulfed in conflict following the Communist coup in April
1978, it was one of the least developed countries in the world. By late 2001, when the World
Bank re-engaged in Afghanistan, more than two decades of conflict and political instability had
resulted in severely damaged infrastructure, a degraded natural resource base, weakened public
institutions, and fragmented political authority. A severe drought lasting from 1999 till 2002 had
further increased rural poverty and depleted assets. Both the conflict and the drought had resulted
in massive population displacements and disruption of livelihoods.

The objectives of the Emergency National Solidarity Project (NSP) reflected priorities identified
by the Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan (now the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan) in its
National Programme for Reconstruction and in IDA's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
updated in March 2003. The Government's strategy featured community development as a
centerpiece. The project would support one of the six national priority sub-programs ­ the
National Solidarity Program ­ under one of the 12 National Development Programs: Livelihoods
and Social Protection.    The goal of the NSP was to reduce poverty through empowering
communities with regard to improved governance, and social, human, and economic capital. A
significant rationale for launching the NSP was the assessment by the government, that its
legitimacy in the rural areas would in no small measure depend on its ability to deliver long
awaited assistance to rural communities across the country and to involve them in participatory
governance of the use of this assistance. The key objectives in IDA's TSS were to assist the
authorities establish capacity in areas essential to facilitate the reconstruction program, to support
high-priority reconstruction activities that could also help jumpstart economic activity, and to
continue to build IDA's knowledge base to allow for developing a well-designed program of
future assistance.

Because of its experience with Community Driven Development (CDD) programs in other post-
conflict countries and elsewhere, the Bank was well positioned to support a large scale CDD
program in Afghanistan. While there were already a number of small-scale CDD projects
implemented by NGOs and supported by bilateral funding, the support for the NSP through the
project would vastly expand the scale of CDD activities. In addition, the NSP would build on and
strengthen the operational partnership between NGOs and the Government that was started for
the first time in Afghanistan under the NSP component of the preceding Emergency Community
Empowerment and Public Works Project (ECEPWP, P077533). This partnership would enable
the Government to further develop its national CDD program framework (the NSP), while
drawing on the strength and experience of the NGOs for implementation. In addition, the
program would introduce and build capacity to execute a key feature of successful large scale
CDD projects which involve local level planning processes within public sector management
systems, namely tight supervision of financial management, disbursement, and technical
standards.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objectives of the project were (i) to lay the foundations for a strengthening of community
level governance, and (ii) to support community-managed sub-projects comprising reconstruction
and development that improve access of rural communities to social and productive infrastructure



                                                   1

and services. The outcomes would be (i) the establishment of a framework for village level
consultative decision making and representative local leadership as a basis for interaction within
and between communities on the one hand, and with the administration and aid agencies on the
other, and (ii) local level reconstruction, development, and capacity building which would lead to
a decrease in poverty levels.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The primary project beneficiaries were villagers including the poor and disabled, who through an
inclusive participatory planning process would select sub-projects that addressed their needs for
local reconstruction and development. Empowerment through participatory planning and local
reconstruction and development leading to improved livelihoods and access to services would
benefit both men and women. Secondary beneficiaries, who would derive enhanced capacity
from their involvement in the project, include (a) the implementing Ministry of Rural
Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) and (b) the Facilitating Partner agencies providing
implementation assistance.

1.5 Original Components

Part A: Block Grants for communities to carry out sub-projects involving reconstruction and
development activities through a facilitated participatory planning process. These activities
would focus on, among other things, community infrastructure, development of human capital,
savings and credit schemes for women and disabled, and asset transfers for women and disabled.

Part B: Community Facilitation and Sub-Project Preparation to support local communities
through: (i) facilitation exercises to establish inclusive community institutions, and identify local
development needs and priorities; (ii) assistance for preparing sub-project proposals;           (iii)
assistance in carrying out sub-projects for which block grants have been made available, and
capacity building for members of local communities.

Part C: Capacity Building and Implementation Support comprising provision of consultants'
services for capacity building in, implementation support to, and incremental operating costs for
the MRRD.        These services would strengthen local communities' capacity in financial
management, procurement, and technical skills. The project would also augment MRRD's
human and physical capacity to supervise and implement the project.

Part D: External Monitoring and Evaluation comprising external monitoring, evaluation and
studies to verify implementation status, assess achievement of project objectives/outcomes, and
undertake research on specific issues related to program policy or implementation.


1.6 Revised Components

Not applicable.




                                                   2

1.7 Other significant changes

Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Emergency National Solidarity Project (NSP) constituted a continuation of the community
empowerment component under the preceding ECEPWP, which became effective in April 2002.
The NSP was an emergency operation prepared over three months in late 2003 under OP 8.50 for
Emergency Recovery Assistance, and no QAG assessment of Quality at Entry was conducted.
No prior analytical work was undertaken. Instead, the country knowledge of key figures in
MRRD, of representatives of the agencies (Afghan and international NGOs plus UN-Habitat)
short-listed for the role as Facilitating Partners, and of the Task Team was brought to bear on the
design of the overall approach through a series of consultations and workshops in early 2003.
The resulting NSP Operations Manual, which guided implementation from mid 2003 of the
community empowerment component under the ECEPWP, in turn formed the basis for the
Technical Annex for the Emergency National Solidarity Project (November 26, 2003). Based on
field implementation experience, the Operations Manual was revised in December 2003, and
December 2004. The latest revision was in January 2006.

The objectives of the Emergency National Solidarity Project responded to a country context that
urgently required (i) a strengthening of local level governance with emphasis on inclusive
participation of villagers in the planning and execution of project activities to foster alternatives
to the "warlordism" that had come to characterize local leadership, and (ii) activities that would
build confidence by demonstrating to the population in the rural areas, that the new government
was capable of delivering a "peace dividend" by addressing the massive needs for rehabilitation
and development assistance in the country's villages after 25 years of conflict.

The project components, institutional arrangements, and approach supported the objectives.
The overall project design was simple, yet innovative in the context of Afghanistan where no line
ministry had previously been involved in implementation of a CDD project, and where capacity
across all ministries had declined during the long period of conflict. The limited capacity of
MRRD was addressed through institutional arrangements that featured (a) a project management
consultant (the Oversight Consultant) recruited through ICB to support MRRD with regard to
project management, disbursement of block grants to communities, monitoring, and capacity
building for MRRD and Facilitating Partner staff, and (b) Facilitating Partners (initially 21)
engaged through performance based contracts to assist with the social mobilization, sub-project
preparation and implementation, and capacity building for communities in target Districts across
Afghanistan. An indicator of the basic soundness of this project design in relation to the
extremely challenging implementation conditions that prevailed and continues to prevail in
Afghanistan is, that the community empowerment component under the ECEPWP by the end of
the first year of implementation had exceeded the target of elected Community Development
Councils (CDCs) with 18%.

Commitment from the Government has been consistently high from MRRD, but less so from
MoF. The involvement by MRRD of Facilitating Partners in initial consultations regarding the
project approach established a shared vision and commitment to the NSP. An indication of the
commitment by the Facilitating Partners is that they have continued operating in a highly difficult



                                                    3

environment, and have on occasion done so even when contractual payments to cover their
operating costs where significantly delayed.

Co-financing of US$47.2 million for the community empowerment component (NSP) had been
provided by the multi-donor Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), Japan, and
Denmark under the ECEPWP. Under the Emergency National Solidarity Project, additional co-
financing of more than US$ 214 million was contributed from ARTF, Japan, Denmark, Norway,
Netherlands, and Switzerland.

The assessment of risks deemed these to be substantial in a context characterized by limited
government authority in the rural areas, warlord rivalry and Taliban resurgence in some areas, a
factional mode of politics and clientism at the village and supra-village levels posing risks of elite
capture of benefits, and low paid government officials who sometimes received salaries on an
irregular basis. Mitigation of deteriorating security conditions preventing operations in specific
areas would, if feasible, involve shifting operations to other districts within the same province.
The risk of elite capture of benefits would be mitigated by external facilitation of the
establishment of Community Development Councils (CDCs) through secret ballot, a participatory
sub-project planning process, a focus on public rather than private goods, and transparency in
budgeting and the use of block grants by communities. The risk of corruption would be mitigated
by financial management arrangements where MRRD, Facilitating Partners, and Oversight
Consultant staff would not handle cash.

2.2 Implementation

Factors outside the control of government:

High security risks in some rural areas, and particularly in the Eastern and Southern parts of the
country, have influenced the outreach and coverage of the project. These risks have increased
substantially over the project period. Since the start of activities there have been frequent threats
to and attacks on Facilitating Partner field offices, and staff has lost their lives to attacks by
Government opponents. Between March and August of 2006, increasing security risks forced 11
Facilitating Partners to suspend operations in 42 Districts, and suspensions have lasted for more
than 3 months in 8 Districts. While this has to some extent been mitigated by shifting operations
to other districts within the same province, the outreach of NSP to about two thirds of
Afghanistan's villages is beginning to pose a constraint to this option, since many of the
remaining Districts are those with high security risks. While there is a demand from villagers in
high risk areas for assistance through NSP, both they and implementation staff are at risk from
retribution by the insurgency, and an effective strategy that maintains the core principles of the
program has not been developed for such situations.

Lack of engineering capacity has constituted an ongoing problem at the level of MRRD and the
program Oversight Consultant both with regard to timely appraisal of submitted sub-project
proposals (less so in the later stages of the project period) and monitoring of sub-project
engineering quality, and at the level of the Facilitating Partners with regard to support to the
CDCs for development of technically sound sub-project proposals (supported by a Technical
Manual from early 2005) and also with regard to support for construction supervision. The
limited national supply of engineering capacity continues to impose restrictions on the
recruitment of qualified engineers (e.g. high demand for skilled engineers from better paying
international agencies and contractors working on large infrastructure projects have resulted in
high turn-over of engineers and recruitment constraints).



                                                 4

Financing shortfalls for NSP caused by (a) inadequate fund mobilization from donors through
the Bank, ARTF, and bilaterally (thus between February 1st and March 31st, 2007, block grant
disbursements only took place on February 14th and 15th due to funding shortfalls), (b) delays in
release by donors of funds pledged to ARTF, (c) ARTF funds allocated through donor preference
are only transferred to such projects after the financing of the recurrent budget is assured, and
funds that were allocated for NSP through donor preference have been delayed until the recurrent
budget was fully funded resulting in temporary shortfalls of available funds for NSP, and (d)
ARTF currently requires a recurrent budget cushion of US$70 million to be maintained, and until
that amount is exceeded, funds can not be transferred to specific projects or programs.

Delays in funding availability has also been caused by different donor procedures for making
pledges, signing agreements with ARTF, and the payment schedules governing subsequent
transfer of funds to ARTF.

Delays in fund transfers of up to four months of ARTF funding from the Bank to the NSP Block
Grant account in the Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB - the Central Bank of Afghanistan).

Factors subject to government control:

Development of annual NSP budgets that were realistic in relation to NSP program needs and
planning, but which went beyond what was committed by donors at the time when budgets were
passed by Government, have been met with reluctance by Ministry of Finance (MoF). This has
been coupled with reluctance by MoF to later revise budgets to incorporate subsequent additional
donor funding (the timing of which may reflect financial procedures in donor countries). Thus,
increases in NSP budgets by MoF's mid-year reviews faced difficulties in both 2005 and 2006.

Delays in cash transfers from DAB in Kabul to provincial DAB branches. This bottleneck was
overcome with an MOU between DAB and MRRD from February 2006. Fund transfers now take
place within 7-14 days, and DAB branches with computerized systems are established in all 34
provinces.

Coordination:     A CDC By-Law was signed by the President in January 2007, requiring
government agencies, NGOs, and other aid and development programs targeting the village level
to use the CDCs as the entry point. The CDC By-Law had been endorsed by the inter-ministerial
NSP Steering Committee headed by a vice-president. However, no actions have subsequently
been taken by the Steering Committee to promote effective coordination of either Government or
bilateral programs that could use the CDCs as the entry point for provision of assistance or as
channels of information to villagers, and which would strengthen the likelihood that the CDCs
become sustainable local development institutions.

Factors subject to implementing agency control:

Strong commitment and action from MRRD has enabled the project to scale up substantially and
exceed the targets for social mobilization of communities, election of CDCs, sub-project
preparation and appraisal, and initiation of block grant funding for approved sub-projects. This
has in turn convinced other donors beside IDA to provide the cofinancing that has underwritten
the expansion of project activities.

Mobilization of donor funding based on regularly updated NSP budget forecasts has not been
pursued consistently to enable the project to meet its targets and commitments.



                                                5

Consolidation versus expansion has been an ongoing issue in the planning and funding of NSP
activities.  High expectations and demands from un-served communities together with the
perceived need by the Government to demonstrate its ability to deliver have put significant
pressure on expansion of NSP. However, in a situation of uncertain funding and recurring
funding shortfalls, the emphasis on expansion may put the credibility of NSP at risk in areas
already reached, if commitments made are not met. There have been situations, where available
funds have been used to pursue expansion of outreach and coverage into new communities rather
than to finance commitments for 2nd and 3rd installments for CDCs with ongoing sub-projects.
Delays in transfer of 2nd and 3rd block grant installments to CDCs (in come cases up to a year)
caused by this and other factors have sometimes resulted in deterioration of initiated civil works.

Coordination among projects/programs managed by MRRD (National Emergency Employment
Program for Rural Access and the National Area Based Program) to ensure that they use the
CDCs as the entry point has not been effectively pursued.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The regular reporting on the project status by MRRD in its weekly, monthly, and quarterly
reports has improved over the project period and is satisfactory both with regard to the quality of
data and identification of issues.

However, the NSP Management Information System (MIS) was not yet fully functional at the end
of the project period, and although it was included as a task in the contract of the Oversight
Consultant, there has been insufficient technical assistance provided for this activity. Thus,
critical types of information such as community baseline data, profiles on CDC composition,
engineering quality of sub-projects, and the status of O&M arrangements have not been
systematically recorded by the MIS, which is also not set up to manage queries on these issues.
The consequence has been, that the MIS has not been an effective tool to provide inputs for an
assessment of the achievement of the project outcomes regarding inclusive governance and
poverty reduction, or the envisaged comparison between NSP poverty reduction data and
information generated by the Bank supported National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment
(NRVA). At the same time, periodic free-standing assessments of critical issues such as the
engineering quality of sub-projects and O&M arrangements, periodic sample audits of CDC
financial management, sustainability of livelihood sub-projects, and the functioning and
representativeness of CDCs have not been conducted.

The tool of independent external evaluations has only been used sparingly, and comprises an
Assessment of NSP Facilitating Partners from August 2004, and a Mid-term Evaluation of the
National Solidarity Program from May 2006.           However, a number of un-commissioned
independent assessments have been undertaken by the Afghanistan Research & Evaluation Unit,
Facilitating Partners, and others. It does not appear that the findings of these assessments have
been systematically used to inform discussions of the project approach or implementation
arrangements. Topics that could have merited focused external assessments to inform the project
approach include (a) the results and sustainability of livelihood sub-projects that mainly targets
women, (b) the efficacy and composition of the largely small scale contracting industry involved
in some of the sub-projects, (c) CDC composition, inclusiveness, decision-making, and
communication with the community at large, and (d) the poverty impacts of NSP.

In mid 2004, a participatory district governance pilot - the District School Construction and
Rehabilitation Window (DSCRW) - was initiated in six districts to test the feasibility of linking
CDCs with the lowest level of state administration in joint planning exercises with a defined


                                                6

budget, accessible on the condition that minimum 70% of the CDCs participated and a majority
endorsed the plan arrived at with the district administration. Initial field visits indicated that with
skilled facilitation the approach did work and might even have a potential beyond the education
sector. While school construction with CDCs involvement in planning at the district level
continued beyond the initial districts, the scheduled evaluation of the pilot was only conducted by
September 2007, too late to inform the approach for the DSCRW, which had by then become a
vehicle for school construction while the governance dimension had taken a back seat.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial management:           Throughout the project period, records of fund receipts and
disbursements have been maintained at the MoF's Special Disbursement Unit (SDU), as well as
at MRRD. MRRD had initially limited financial management capacity, and disbursement of
block grants has been a responsibility of the NSP Oversight Consultant. Financial reporting was
initially poor, and monthly and quarterly financial reports ­ including the mandatory financial
monitoring reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank ­ were not prepared regularly. However
financial reporting has improved considerably over time.

For CDC block grants MRRD has maintained only a summary statement of sub-project expenses
and progress.      Initially, all underlying supporting documents were only supposed to be
maintained by the CDCs at the community level, and it was envisaged that as part of the project
monitoring approach, MRRD would undertake periodic sample audits of CDC financial
management. However, no field sample audits have been undertaken other than during Bank
supervision missions, and this has limited the ability to ascertain that funds were used for the
purposes intended. Subsequently, a requirement was introduced to maintain copies of supporting
documents at MRRD provincial offices. This requirement is not practical under the conditions
that prevail in Afghanistan's rural areas since it involves copying, transferring, managing, and
analyzing documentation from tens of thousands of community sub-projects.                 Instead, the
previous arrangement where CDCs retain the supporting documents at the community level, and
MRRD (or a consultant) conduct periodic sample audits should be reintroduced and actually
carried out. For the ICR, an SOE review was conducted. A sample of 25 CDC sub-projects for
Kabul province was selected for review, and documentation was furnished for 19 sub-projects.
The review did not indicate any major deficiencies.1

The funds flow arrangement has been satisfactory. All payments have been centrally controlled
by MoF. An assessment of the process reveals that this has been managed appropriately since the
project began. For Block Grants, a float was maintained in a separate bank account by the
Oversight Consultant.       Periodic payments into this account were made by MoF based on
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the Oversight Consultant showing payments made
to the CDCs and approved by MRRD. As described in Section 2.2, replenishment of the block
grant float has been subject to considerable lags amounting to a total of 405 days of delays five
days or longer between January 2005 and end of March 2007.

Records under NSP, like other emergency projects in Afghanistan, were maintained manually at
the SDU from the project inception until March 2005, when the SDU started using the
Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS). It was assumed that record



1        The mid-term evaluation from May 2006 did not find any evidence of misuse of funds by CDCs.




                                                 7

keeping would have improved greatly with the transition to AFMIS, but this has not been the case.
Under AFMIS, there are still no component-wise disbursements records. However, SDU and the
project are working towards incorporating component-wise information in the financial
statements and the quarterly Financial Management Reports. The internal control system has
been satisfactory

Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly, although not within the time
stipulated in the Financing Agreement. The audit opinions of the Control and Audit Office of
Afghanistan were generally unqualified, except for opinions issued in the last two years. Key
points raised in the last audited financial statements and the management letter for the fiscal year
ending March 20, 2006 (SY1384) for all the credits/grants for NSP included (i) inconsistency
between figures reported in the Financial Monitoring Reports and Financial Statements, (ii) the
total amounts on M16 forms authorized and recorded in the project's records did not correspond
to the financial statements prepared by MoF, (iii) ineligible expenditures of US$76,944 under
incremental operating cost relating to construction of a government office building, (iv) payments
made over the budgetary allocations for Block Grants and Consultancy Services and Training, (v)
ineligible expenditures of US$100,000 on account of missing supporting documentation, and (vi)
lack of maintenance of a cash book to record operating expenses incurred by MRRD. Responses
to key audit findings arising from the Bank's reviews of the audit reports have been received from
MRRD, and these have been forwarded to the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan for follow
up and conclusion.

Given that there was no adequate financial management system in place when the project became
effective, one can conclude that FM capacity has been built steadily over the life of the project.
This capacity not only benefits the project, but extends to the general operations of MRRD's
finance department. However, as the latest audit report indicates, there is scope for further
strengthening.

Procurement: Due to the capacity constraints across all line ministries, procurement of goods,
works, and services for all Bank financed projects was initially undertaken by a central
procurement agent contracted by the Afghan government. From mid 2004 onwards, MRRD's
Procurement Department began to take the lead in carrying out procurement actions for all goods,
works, and services. However, the contracting of Facilitating Partner agencies and amendments
to their contracts was subsequently delegated to the Oversight Consultant from January 2005.
Lack of familiarity by MRRD staff of Bank Procurement Guidelines and procedures contributed
to delays.

There was one major contract with the Oversight Consultant which was amended five times. The
amendments resulted in (i) time extensions from an initial period of 12 months to 42 months, and
(ii) price modifications from an initial contract price of US$5.3m to US$32.5 m. There were 26
contracts with 24 Facilitating Partners to undertake social mobilization and provide assistance to
communities. These contracts were modified several times with up to four amendments over a
period of 48 months. The amendments were time and cost modifications, and were inevitable as
NSP expanded by including new communities based on the success and the availability of
funding for the program, and as some Facilitating Partners had to be replaced. However, it would
have been advantageous if the contracting requirements of the NSP expansion and phasing had
been reviewed at mid term in order to find solutions that avoid, limited, or streamlined such
frequent amendments.

Under the District School Window, 18 contracts were awarded to construct 8 to 16 classrooms for
58 schools in seven provinces. These contracts could not be completed during the project period


                                                  8

and were extended to the second project. There were several contractual modifications to
increase the quantities due to lack of diligence in the calculation of bills of quantities by MRRD's
engineering staff working on the District School Construction and Rehabilitation Window. In
addition, there were instances where schools got relocated since another donor was found to be
financing the rehabilitation, or the number of classrooms was reduced as the demand was found
to be lower than initially assessed. Careful engineering planning combined with more effective
liaison with MoE and other donors could have contributed to avoid such incidents.

Environmental and social safeguards: Negative environmental impacts, whether by individual
sub-projects or aggregate, of the predominantly very small-scale civil works sub-projects are
negligible. Involuntary land acquisition under eminent domain has not been an option in any sub-
project, since local authorities do not have access to funds to purchase land or other assets if land
acquisition were to be undertaken, and since the political costs (in terms of opposition from
affected landowners and their relatives who hold residual rights in the land) would prevent the
weak government apparatus from attempting to acquire any land against the will of those affected.
Thus, where land is required for a particular sub-project, it can only been obtained through either
private voluntary donations, compensation paid by the community (i.e. transaction between
willing buyer-willing seller), or from available government land.             All Afghanistan's many
different ethnic groups are indigenous in terms of the criteria of OP 4.10, and even the historically
dominant Pashtun are locally found as minorities surrounded by ethnic groups (e.g. Uzbek,
Turkoman, Tajik) that nationally constitute minorities. The key issue is therefore one of equitable
inclusion in access to project benefits, and this is ensured through key project design features
which are (i) national scale and coverage which have ensured that all the country's different
ethnic groups are reached, and (ii) an approach for election of CDCs, which provides for
representation and voice of all sub-groups in the community. Documentation and field visits
indicate that such inclusion has been achieved.

The project's Environment & Social Safeguards Framework and the Operations Manual contain
check-lists on environmental impacts and corresponding mitigation measures for specific types of
sub-projects, as well as forms to document how access to land was obtained for particular sub-
projects. While no involuntary land acquisition has been undertaken, land is nearly always
subject to conflicting claims, and anecdotal evidence suggests that land was used for sub-projects
without resolution of such disputes.2 However, the project MIS do not contain any records on
how access to land was obtained or how environmental impacts were managed, this is not
reflected in progress reports, and no audit has been carried out to assess these issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

A follow-up operation­ the Second Emergency National Solidarity Project (NSP-II) ­ with IDA
grant financing of US$120 million (SDR81.2 m) became effective on May 15, 2007. The NSP-II
maintains the approach to CDC elections together with the community decision-making and
management of sub-projects that was featured under the previous operations. Over the three year
project period, the project targets are expansion of outreach to 21,600 communities representing
90% of the country's rural population, and funding and completion of 16,000 sub-projects.
However, the design of NSP-II differs from that of the previous operations in one significant



2       The report on the assessment of the NSP District School Construction and Rehabilitation Window
from September 2007, found that "land disputes were an ever present feature of the school building
process" (p. 8).




                                                  9

respect.   The envisaged smaller recurrent annual block grant has been discarded, and
communities that have used their initial block grant are no longer assured of any subsequent
funding.

During NSP-I, steps were taken as local capacity increased to decentralize the initially highly
centralized project management structure by delegating sub-project appraisal, training and
engineering support for Facilitating Partners to regional and provincial management units. All
sub-project proposals (except bridges and mini hydro-power) are appraised at the provincial level,
and provincial engineers provide technical support to Facilitating Partners. This process will
continue with full integration of former Oversight Consultant staff and provincial MRRD staff in
MRRD's provincial offices. The former Oversight Consultant staff is contracted by the NSP
Management Unit. Likewise, procurement, which was initially handled by a central procurement
agent, and subsequently by the Oversight Consultant for contracts with Facilitating Partners, has
been fully transferred to MRRD. Further changes in the implementation arrangements to build
sustainable institutional capacity involve transferring management and oversight functions that
were previously handled by the Oversight Consultant to MRRD. The Oversight Consultant was
succeeded in April 2007 by a Management Support Consultant recruited through ICB, and a
transfer of functions to an autonomous NSP Management Unit within MRRD has taken place
from September 2006 onwards. The NSP Management Unit will be handling policy and strategy
development, resource mobilization and budget preparation, and coordination with other
ministries. The Management Support Consultant will be responsible for block grant management,
training and capacity development, and the MIS.

The funding made available through NSP-II has to cover immediate commitments carried over
from NSP-I of US$38.2 million (US$26 m in block grant commitments to ongoing sub-projects
and US$12.2 m for contract commitments including a backlog of payments to Facilitating
Partners).3 In addition, the carry-over from NSP-I includes block grant funding of around US$98
million for the approximately 4,200 CDCs that have not yet developed fundable sub-project
proposals as well as around US$29 million to cover the facilitation costs for these, resulting in a
total commitment not including central management costs deriving from NSP-I of US$165.2
million. By end March, 2007, only about US$18 million remained from other funding sources.4
Thus, without substantial additional co-financing, the funding available for NSP-II will not enable
an expansion of operations, unless this is done at the expense of commitments already made for
ongoing operations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives of empowering rural communities to define and manage their rehabilitation
and development priorities and to improve access to productive infrastructure and services
continue to be highly relevant in the prevailing post-conflict context characterized by substantial
unmet needs in the rural areas, and the increasing urgency imposed by the resurgent insurgency
on the state to demonstrate its ability to address these needs.




3       NSP Quarterly Report for 1st January to 31st March, 2007, MRRD.
4       NSP Monthly Program Report: March 2007, MRRD.


                                                   10

The NSP is a critical vehicle for delivery of the benchmarks of the Agriculture and Rural
Development pillar of the Interim Afghan National Development Strategy (the basis for an
Afghanistan Poverty Reduction Strategy). In the I-ANDS, the NSP alone is tasked with delivery
of the community development benchmark (outreach to all the country's villages by the end of
2010), and is also expected to play a central role with regard to delivery on rural infrastructure,
empowerment of women, and good governance.

The overall theme for the Bank's Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan for the period FY 07 to FY 08 is state-building, and the focus is on assistance to
achieve results with regard to three strategic pillars aligned with the I-ANDS. One of these is
promoting growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihood, and to this end, the CDCs
established under NSP would play a central role in the development of a new model for demand
driven rural development, and would at the same time, by increasing legitimate government
interaction, reduce the role of groups that have become used to usurping local power. The
benchmark for progress under the ISN pillar would be that NSP by FY 08 reaches 80 percent of
the rural population.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Local governance: Between the start of field implementation in the summer of 2003 and March
31, 2007, 16,502 Community Development Councils (CDCs) had been elected through secret
ballot by men and women establishing the outreach of NSP to two thirds of Afghanistan's
estimated 24,000 villages (10,321 CDCs were elected during the ICR period). A total of 22,458
sub-projects submitted by 12,270 CDCs and meeting appraisal criteria were being funded with
aggregate block grant disbursements amounting to US$283.7 million (US$224.4 m disbursed for
16,496 sub-projects during the ICR period). The main findings of the midterm evaluation
undertaken for MRRD in 2005-06 were, that in communities reached by NSP there is significant
evidence of:

     · Empowerment of CDCs,
     · Improved community relations,
     · Increased public faith in the system of government.

Case studies conducted as part of the mid-term evaluation of 18 CDCs in different parts of the
country found that, while their composition and functions did vary between communities, the
CDCs were emerging as legitimate local governance institutions. The mid-term evaluation also
found that "NSP communities have far more tools than non-NSP communities for envisaging
problems, linking priorities, and planning. NSP communities are therefore less reactive and more
proactive, and have a significantly more favorable opinion of the government that non-NSP
communities do not share. The non-NSP communities have a strong distrust of government and
little faith in its ability to address their problems". This finding is paralleled by a survey from
from February 2007 by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, which states that "the
CDCs and tribal shuras are seen as more responsive to Afghan needs than provincial
governments and provincial councils, and in many cases are the only sign of improvement
villagers have seen in the past five years".

Poverty reduction: Of Afghanistan's rural population, 52.8% have incomes below the poverty
threshold. In 2003, the poverty threshold was estimated at Afs 4,621 per capita per year, which




                                                   11

would purchase a daily food consumption equivalent to 2,100 calories per person per day.               5

Converted to 2007 prices, the poverty threshold is Afs 5,767 (US$115) per capita per year.
NRVA has identified high incidence of landlessness, and unskilled farm and non-farm families
depending on daily wage labor as some of the key characteristics of the moderately to extremely
poor households in Afghanistan. Among the NSP sub-projects, access to major basic services
like power, roads, drinking and irrigation water, and education accounted for 71% of the
implemented sub-projects, 79% of the block grants disbursed, and 73% of the rural families
benefited. Of the 1.15 million rural families that benefited from these CDD sub-projects in the
power, roads, water, and education sub-sectors, about 0.6 million can be classified as moderately
to extremely poor families. Immediate savings realized annually are estimated at US$65 per
beneficiary family, while improved access to basic services like electricity, roads, water, and
education will impact rural livelihoods in the longer run to reduce poverty. For instance, power
generation accounted for about 20% of the block grants disbursed, providing access to electricity
for about 193,000 rural families, of which more than half are classified as moderately to
extremely poor.

The sub-projects implemented during the project period have generated direct employment for the
beneficiary families, equivalent to 10.6 million labor days, and if CDD activities based on the
CDPs receive funding in the future, this will sustain the direct employment opportunities for the
rural poor families.      Spillover effects of farm and non-farm employment and income
opportunities in the NSP communities will further contribute to improve household incomes.
Increased profit margins for wheat growers and grape producers, reduced farming costs for small
holders, increased mechanization of farm operations, improved access and quality of water supply,
the freeing of women's labor for income generating activities, and innovative institutional
initiatives at community level for better health care and access to basic services are already
realized in many project communities.

3.3 Efficiency

Concern has been raised with regard to the size of the program "delivery costs" of NSP in relation
to the value of block grants disbursed. However, in addition to the fact that these costs have
decreased as a proportion of overall program costs, two other issues should be considered. The
first is, that throughout the implementation period, delays in the disbursement of block grants
deriving from delays in mobilizing adequate donor funding, in transferring block grant funds to
the NSP headquarter, in transferring funds from the account in the central DAB to its provincial
branches, and delays in depositing second and third block grant installments into CDC bank
accounts, have all contributed to increase the actual program "delivery costs". The institutional
set-up and staffing were in place to deliver, but could not do so due to constraints on block grant
disbursements. The second is, that the costs of the Facilitating Partner contracts are not just
administration and overheads, but include the costs of delivering the governance output of NSP,
namely elected CDCs with capacity to plan and manage local development activities.
Specifically, this includes assistance to communities to conduct the CDC elections, prepare sub-
project proposals, conduct implementation supervision, and build CDC capacity for procurement,




5        Based on the National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA) analysis as quoted in WB
Report No. 29694-AF on Afghanistan Poverty, Vulnerability and Social Protection: An Initial Assessment,
dated March 7, 2005.




                                                  12

financial management, and transparency. The low literacy rate across rural Afghanistan means
that villagers need fairly intensive and protracted facilitation assistance to plan and manage sub-
projects. In a sample of 4,852 CDCs, the average was 3.6 literate members per CDC, and there
are villages where no one is literate. Even so, the capacity created through facilitation of the
initial sub-projects does result in lower "delivery costs" for subsequent sub-projects, and this
would likely also be the case regarding other CDD type activities at the village level.

Analysis of one year cost break-up based on 2005/06 data for five Facilitating Partners show the
following:    The total budget for contract services was $17.6 million, out of which new
communities                            Table-4 Capacity creation by five sample FPs, 2005/06:
accounted for 55%                                  Functions and cost-break up
and the rest for                                          Communities                 Total
follow-up activities       Cost for                    New      Follow-up    $ million    % share
in      communities       Governance                     66%        34%         4.63         26
from the previous         Sub-project preparation        62%        38%         3.98         23
program        phase.     Sub-project implementation     52%        48%         8.05         46
The unit cost of          Training                                              0.72         4
facilitation     had      MRRD staff integration                                0.20         1
come down by 38%           Total ($ million)             9.71       6.94        17.58        100
in   the   follow-up      No. of communities covered    1,823      2,094        3,917
communities        as
compared to the new communities. During the one year period, the five Facilitating Partners
supported the development of 4,545 fundable sub-project proposals.                  The average cost of
facilitating one sub-project proposal with an average block grant value of US$12,688 was
US$3,868, which is 30% of the cost of a sub-project proposal. While 69% of the Facilitating
Partner costs are specific to sub-project preparation and implementation, the rest is distributed on
governance, training, and staff integration whose longer term impacts go beyond the NSP project
area. Excluding the 31% of the Facilitating Partner costs which will have system wide impacts,
the share of facilitation costs for delivering the block grants come to 21%. The cost efficiency
analysis for five Facilitating Partners indicates that the actual cost of block grant delivery is less
than the 25% targeted in the project. This also compares favorably with the first year of NSP
implementation, when the "delivery costs" constituted 61.7 percent of block grants: it cost nearly
62 cents to deliver 1 dollar worth of block grants.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The project objectives and the overall project approach are highly relevant in the continuing post-
conflict environment, and are at the same time closely aligned with the I-ANDS' goal of building
an inclusive society through participatory decision-making and governance at the village level.
There has been significant progress with regard to achievement of the outcomes of consultative
decision making and representative local leadership, together with local level reconstruction,
development, and capacity building, even though the sustainability of local governance
institutions (the CDCs) remains precarious, the poverty impacts need to be better documented,
and the technical quality of sub-projects is uneven. Since the start of the project its efficiency has
increased substantially, and by the end of the ICR reporting period, the immediate "delivery
costs" in relation to block grants were assessed to be 21%, and lower than initially forecasted
25%. A rate of return of 23.6% is estimated for the subprojects in the four major sectors of
irrigation, transport, drinking water, and power, which account for 89% of the block grants
disbursed.



                                                   13

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Gender Aspects, and Social Development

No traditional rural institution has been representative of women nor permitted their participation,
thereby excluding half the population from any recognized voice in community affairs. With the
introduction of CDCs, equal representation for women is actively promoted, and on average, 35%
of the CDC representatives are female.            Depending on local circumstances, women's
representation has constituted anything from symbolic presence (majority of cases) to an active
platform for women's interests (few cases). Gender segregation in the CDCs is presently a
necessary measure for involving women, and these all-female CDCs at least provide women with
a forum to meet and discuss shared problems and issues, something they did not have previously.
With women's increasing education and income earning activities, it can be expected that they
will gain more voice in local affairs. Generally, women have so far had little direct say in the
process of prioritization and sub-project selection. However, in the present situation where the
needs of rural communities are massive, no major differences between men's and women's
priorities are recorded as far as public goods are concerned. Thus, the benefits deriving from
repair of irrigation systems and provision drinking water supply are not gender specific, but
accrue to households. A key constraint in increasing both the representation and role of women
in the CDCs has been the difficulties in recruiting female Afghan field staff. Only 17% of the
field staff deployed by NSP Facilitating Partners are women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The NSP has for the first time in Afghanistan's history introduced an institutionalized framework
for inclusive consultative decision-making at the village level as part of the state governance
system. Through the facilitation provided for the formation of elected CDCs and for community
level planning and implementation of sub-projects, capacity is being built at the local level for
managing inclusive consultative decision-making to address joint needs, as well as regarding
planning and project management involving procurement and financial management. Also for
the first time in Afghanistan's history, women have been involved in formal governance
arrangements, although still only partially so. With the introduction of the CDC By-Law, the
formal basis has been put in place to regularize the CDCs as the entry-point for all government
and bilateral development activities at the village level. However, a major challenge remains in
establishing effective functioning coordination across line ministries and donors to use the CDCs
as entry-points as mandated by the CDC By-Law.

The assessment from September 2007 of the participatory district governance pilot ­ the District
School Construction and Rehabilitation Window ­ found that while the District Management
Committees established to undertake joint planning and management of school construction
involving CDC representatives and district authorities could work, if supported by expert
facilitation, the attention and resources given to the governance dimension of the pilot were
inadequate. As a result, the critical issue of mediation and conflict resolution was ignored, which
meant that tensions regarding who represented CDC clusters at the district level were left
unresolved, as were the thorny relations between CDC representatives and government officials
unused to deal with villagers as partners. Moreover, no clear communication mechanisms were
established to ensure that information was shared with CDC members and villagers not directly
involved in the planning and management process. The assessment found that "some CDCs in
the project described a positive initial interaction with District Management Committees which
soured because the CDCs felt that they were constantly being made to face their lack of power to
influence any aspect of the program. Peoples' participation in DSCRW was mostly expected as


                                                 14

ten percent community contribution of labor and some materials", converting the exercise into a
vehicle for school construction rather than for participatory local governance. However, the
assessment also found that potentially "a forum such as the District Management Committee is a
good place for government representatives to show themselves as ... responsive to community
members, but only if they have the power to effect change, and if they have a stake in building
trust among communities, whom they should see as constituencies rather than rivals in
appropriation and control".

At the government level, both an institutional framework and capacity is being established to
manage a large scale national CDD program. When the project was being initiated in 2002-03,
staff in the implementing ministry (MRRD) was entirely unfamiliar with the concept and
practicalities of CDD operations, and with proper procurement and financial management
practices, and project development hinged on a handful of actors in MRRD and MoF. Today, an
NSP Management Unit within MRRD has assumed core management and planning functions,
provincial MRRD offices have a central role in operations, and procurement is handled within the
ministry. However, apart from mobilization of adequate funding, major remaining challenges
include the establishment of effective district level facilitation capacity for CDCs in areas from
which Facilitating Partners will withdraw at the expiry of their contracts, and coordination among
relevant projects and programs managed by MRRD to ensure that they use the CDCs as entry-
points as mandated by the CDC By-Law.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

An unintended impact has been the strengthening of the outreach of the DAB across the country.
At the start of NSP field implementation, the DAB as the only bank in the country had
functioning branches in just a few of the provincial centers. The demand created by the CDCs for
banking services and the volume of transactions generated by the block grant transfers have
stimulated expansion the DAB, which now has functioning, computerized branches in all
provincial centers.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

See Annex 5 on Beneficiary Survey Results.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The risks that achievement of the development outcomes will not be maintained are significant.
Other than the precarious security situation, which has been worsening in the South and East, the
main risks are manageable and are:

A. Risks to the institutional sustainability of the CDCs due to the following:

    1. Lack of sustained funding of CDCs: The original program conceptualization, and a
        justification for the substantial donor investments in the program and its governance
        dimension, was that the initial community block grant would be succeeded by a recurrent,
        annual block grant transfer to the CDCs as part of the government's development budget,
        albeit at a significantly lower level, which would ensure their institutional sustainability.
        A recurrent annual block grant transfer is no longer envisaged, and there are currently no



                                                15

   plans to provide any smaller follow-up block grants. As currently designed, NSP will
   over the next three years withdraw from around 17,000 CDCs that have completed
   implementation of their block grant. Without the means to undertake the functions for
   which they were established, it is unlikely that the CDCs will be sustainable, since
   potential access to resources through other programs and projects is unevenly distributed
   across the country and often not targeting the CDCs as the entry point for delivery.
   Moreover, even if these CDCs receive funding from some source on a regular basis, their
   sustainability would be at risk if they do not receive facilitation assistance to either some
   or all of the following activities (i) undertaking a second round of CDC elections, (ii)
   preparation of technically and financially sound sub-project proposals, (iii) additional
   capacity building regarding procurement and financial management, and (iv) technical
   supervision of sub-project implementation. The two-person teams that MRRD plans to
   field at the district level to assist the post-NSP CDCs do not have the skills to provide this
   assistance.
2. Lack of coordination: Inter-ministerial coordination to ensure that CDCs are used as the
   entry point for village level development activities has until recently been absent both at
   the central and provincial levels, and still remains elusive as a concrete operational reality
   even after the formation of an NSP Steering Committee headed by one of the two vice
   presidents. The lack of coordination at the central level is mirrored in the provinces,
   where the midterm evaluation found that "the validity of the NSP itself is continually
   questioned by other provincial level ministries". While donor coordination has been
   fairly successful with regard to the mobilization of funding for the core NSP (through
   ARTF and bilateral contributions), there has been little attention to coordinate with free-
   standing programs implemented by other donors (or for that matter NGOs) to ensure that
   where relevant, they involve the CDCs in planning and implementation of village level
   development. This also applies to the projects/programs managed by MRRD (National
   Emergency Employment Program for Rural Access and the National Area Based
   Program).
3. Lack of CDC involvement in local governance:              If CDCs are to have a role as
   sustainable local governance institutions, this will require that linkages are established
   with existing sub-national governance structures at both the district and provincial level.
   The piloting undertaken earlier of CDC involvement in joint district level planning
   together with district authorities should be revisited in order to develop an approach,
   which ­ if accompanied by adequate facilitation support including conflict mediation,
   training, and funding for district level activities ­ would enable direct involvement of
   CDC representatives in decision-making at the lowest level of sub-national governance.
   At the provincial level, the Provincial Councils are mandated to monitor the performance
   of provincial authorities. Involvement of CDCs in the monitoring of service provision by
   district and provincial authorities, and the linking of this function to the Provincial
   Councils would - if accompanied by adequate facilitation support, training, and funding
   to conduct the monitoring exercise ­serve to both strengthen the efficiency of the
   currently weak Provincial Councils and give the CDCs a voice in an ongoing dialogue on
   service provision. In addition to strengthening the institutional sustainability of the
   CDCs, measures such as those outlined above might also contribute make sub-national
   governance structures tangibly useful to villagers and foster a sense of ownership, which
   in turn might counter the appeal of the growing insurgency. Both MRRD and the
   recently established Independent Directorate of Local Governance under the President
   would be partners in a discussion of the role of CDCs in sub national governance.
4. Lack of adequate fund mobilization and timely disbursements: The funding shortfalls
   and disbursement delays entail risks of frustrating the initial high expectations of
   villagers.   Increased attention to mobilization of donor funding based on regularly


                                               16

        updated NSP budget forecasts together with adjustments in implementation arrangements
        to ensure timely flow of funds to CDCs are required. At the same time, the tension
        between finalization and consolidation of activities in already established CDCs on the
        one hand, and outreach to new communities on the other need to be managed in a way
        that does not put results already achieved at risk.

B. Risks to the sustainability of civil works derive from (a) inadequate engineering assistance
to CDCs for sub-project design and supervision resulting in substandard construction quality, (b)
a weak local contracting industry, (c) use of inappropriate technology (diesel generators), and (d)
approval of sub-projects with inadequate operation and maintenance plans.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance through the lending phase ensured that a follow-up project to the
community empowerment component of the ECEPWP was prepared within a three month
timeframe drawing on the (still limited) implementation experience, and that funding was
available to continue operations uninterrupted by the time the ECEPWP closed with 100%
disbursement. Support was provided to the government regarding mobilization of donor support
for co-financing from ARTF, Japan, Denmark, and Norway.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation phase entailed fielding of comprehensive
multi-disciplinary supervision teams including expertise on financial management, procurement,
engineering, monitoring, and safeguards which ensured identification of key project performance
issues such as the need to strengthen engineering capacity to enhance the technical quality of sub-
projects, improve monitoring and evaluation including poverty outcomes, and improve safeguards
reporting. The May 2006 supervision mission Aide Memoire committed the Bank to streamline
and simplify the policy on packaging and procurement of contracts with Facilitating Partners,
something which the comments by the Facilitating Partners indicate is still an unresolved issue
(Annex 8). While the Bank provided two supplemental IDA Grants, it could have played a more
active role in assisting MRRD in mobilizing co-financing for NSP by using its convening power
to conduct a dialogue on this with donors.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance during the period under review included quick preparation of a follow-
up to the ECEPWP in response to the government's request, the preparation of two supplemental
IDA grants, and preparation of the NSP-II, together with candid supervision reporting including
proposed solutions to issues identified.




                                                17

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

During the project preparation phase, the government was a strong champion of the project and
provided guidance and feed-back on objectives, components, and approach to the Bank Task
Team. Such guidance and dialogue continued into implementation. At the same time steps have
been taken to rectify shortcomings in critical implementation areas (e.g. by DAB with regard to
block grant transfers). During the later stages of implementation, the MoF has begun to question
the comparative advantage of NSP as a poverty alleviation instrument compared with other
urgent reconstruction and development priorities involving major infrastructure, a challenge that
the project still has to convincingly address in terms of analytical work on its poverty impacts.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Since the start, MRRD has consistently demonstrated commitment to and ownership of the
project, which has expressed itself in an ongoing dialogue between key ministry actors (including
the two ministers who have held the MRRD portfolio) and the Bank on strategic and
implementation issues. At the same time, MRRD has strengthened its capacity regarding project
management and oversight, although stronger performance could have been demonstrated
regarding (a) timely budget forecasting and mobilization, (b) ongoing consultation with
Facilitating Partners to develop solutions to problems (e.g. to strengthen recruitment of female
field staff, and to develop an implementation approach for high risk areas), (c) establishment of a
functioning MIS and undertaking sample assessments in key areas to inform the approach and
strengthen achievement of development objectives, and (d) coordination with other projects and
programs implemented by the ministry.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

There has been strong commitment to and ownership of the project, particularly by MRRD, and
the government has improved its capacity in areas critical to project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

1. A key lesson is, that in a difficult post-conflict situation characterized by limited government
    capacity, the project's choice of institutional arrangements featuring performance based
    contracting of service providers for management assistance and field implementation has lend
    itself to a rapid scaling up of project outreach.

2. When the purpose of these institutional arrangements include both delivery of a "peace
    dividend" and building of capacity in the implementing government agency to manage the
    delivery of this "peace dividend", the challenge of balancing these two aims needs to be
    carefully managed, so that the incentive to provide rapid results on the ground does not take
    precedence over the capacity building, that may be the condition for sustainable and cost-
    effective delivery of development interventions in the medium and longer term. At the same
    time, capacity building and full transfer of key management functions from service providers
    to the implementing government agency needs time since in addition to capacity
    enhancement, this involves institutional and attitudinal change.



                                                  18

3. In the Afghan post-conflict context where rapid delivery of a "peace dividend" is critical to
    establish or maintain the credibility of government vis-à-vis the population, the implementing
    agency together with donors (and with the Bank in a convening role) needs to ensure that
    adequate funding is available to avoid shortfalls that for extended periods may both leave
    community sub-projects without the resources to complete activities, and field
    implementation agencies without the funds to cover their operating and staff costs.

4. To address this recurrent problem of funding shortfalls, MRRD assisted by the Bank should
    engage donors to establish annually and ahead of the Government's budget formulation an
    accurate schedule from donors detailing their assistance level, pledged and recurrent, together
    with a timetable for when these funds would be submitted to ARTF. To the extent possible,
    multi-year commitments should be sought (as provided by DFID) or at least multi-year
    indications of expected assistance levels. This would improve the predictability of funding
    availability and contribute to eliminate the large time gaps of the past when funds were not
    available.

5. The challenge of maintaining engineering quality of sub-projects, which has been and
    remains an issue in the project and nationally across other projects and programs as well,
    needs to be managed. However, this can not be effectively addressed at the level of a project
    implementing agency, but requires a broader effort that aims at building capacity for small
    and medium contractors coupled with a certification process to establish a list of pre-qualified
    contractors.

6. Institutional sustainability of the elected CDCs as local level development and governance
    bodies is not likely beyond the period when project grants are provided, unless the
    requirement of the recent CDC By-Law of using the CDCs as entry-point for village level
    development activities is operationalized through coordination among different line ministries
    and donor funded programs, as well as through linkages with the existing local government
    apparatus (e.g. joint District level planning exercises on resource allocation with CDC
    involvement, and accountability measures such as CDC monitoring of government service
    provision).

7. While the inter-ministerial NSP Steering Committee headed by a vice-president constitutes a
    formal mechanism for coordination that may lend itself to overall policy direction on
    coordination, a more operational forum is required to define and oversee the practical
    coordination of rural development activities on an ongoing basis. Such a forum could
    initially consist of the directors of the different relevant Bank financed projects (e.g. NERAP,
    EIRP, EQUIP, HSERP, and Horticulture Project) together with the TTLs, and chaired by the
    NSP Executive Director.6 When operational, representation in the forum could be expanded
    to include other relevant line ministry departments and bilaterally funded programs.

8. Monitoring and evaluation needs to be strengthened in several areas including (a) entry of
    baseline data into the MIS, (b) periodic assessments of the engineering quality of civil works
    sub-projects and their O&M arrangements, (c) periodic audits of CDC financial management


6        NERAP: National Emergency Rural Access Project; EIRP: Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project; EQUIP: Education Quality Improvement Project; and HSERP: Health Sector Emergency
Rehabilitation Project.




                                                   19

    and procurement, (d) assessments of livelihoods activities in terms of sustainable income
    increases, (e) entry into the MIS and analysis of data on CDC composition to enable an
    assessment of the governance outputs of NSP in terms of inclusiveness versus elite capture,
    (f) assessment of the factors that critically influence the functioning and roles of CDCs, and
    (g) assessment of the poverty reduction impacts of NSP.

9. Even in areas with high security risks there is a demand from villagers for assistance through
    NSP. However, both villagers and implementation staff are at risk from retribution from the
    insurgency, and an effective strategy that maintains the core principles of the program have
    not been developed for such situations. Since different Facilitating Partners have developed
    apparently successful individual approaches to manage operations in high security risk areas
    (e.g. International Rescue Committee in Khost), a series of consultative workshops - similar
    to those conducted when the NSP approach was initially developed - should be held to
    explore whether an effective strategy for high risk areas is feasible.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

There is basic agreement regarding the issues, problems, and remedies in the analysis of both
MRRD and the Facilitating Partners on the one hand and of the ICR on the other. Two key issues
raised by both MRRD and the Facilitating Partners should be addressed collaboratively, namely:

    1) Revisit the Operations Manual to introduce measures to simplify operational procedures.
        This for reconsideration inter alia include (i) CDC procurement, (ii) CDC financial
        management arrangements such as the requirement to provide bank statements and copies
        of supporting documents to MRRD provincial offices, and (c) the requirement that CDCs
        can only implement sub-projects in succession and not in parallel..
    2) Resume the regular meetings between NSP management and FP representatives to
        discuss and resolve critical implementation issues, such as the facilitation and capacity
        building support required to promote the sustainability of CDCs, and an effective
        approach to implementation in high security risk areas, which does not compromise the
        integrity of the basic NSP principles of inclusive participatory decision making on the use
        of block grants and management of sub-project implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers

The comments reinforce the points made in the ICR regarding the need to rigorously assess the
poverty impacts of NSP, and to situate considerations regarding the sustainability of the CDCs
within the broader context of a coherent sub-national governance structure.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

See comments above under (a).




                                                 20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing




(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                        Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest
            Components                                                                   Percentage of
                                          (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                      millions)             Appraisal

BLOCK GRANTS FOR
COMMUNITIES                                        72.32                289.247                400

COMMUNITY FACILITATION
& SUB-PROJECT                                      18.38                136.068                740
PREPARATION
CAPACITY BUILDING AND
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                              2.30                   4.659               202

EXTERNAL MONITORING &
EVALUATION                                          2.00                   0.78                 39

               Total Baseline Cost                  0.00

Physical Contingencies                              0.00                   0.00                0.00

Price Contingencies                                 0.00                   0.00                0.00
                Total Project Costs                95.0010              430.7311               454
Project Preparation Fund                            0.00                   0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00                   0.00                .00
      Total Financing Required                      0.00                   0.00




7        Includes the Block Grants to communities and expenditure incurred under the District School
Construction and Rehabilitation Window.
8        Includes the costs of hiring Facilitating Partners, Oversight Consultant and other miscellaneous
consultancies for the project. The bulk of community capacity building/training were integral component
of the Facilitating Partner contracts.
9        Includes the costs of buildings, MRRD incremental operating costs and good and equipment.
10       The costs reflect the initial IDA grant for NSP-I, which was expected to be supplemented by both
cofinancing and additional IDA funding to achieve the planned project expansion.
11       The costs include the total expenditure incurred from all the IDA grants, JSDF grants, and ARTF
grants as well from other bi-lateral sources that have funded the project.


                                                      21

(b) Financing (Project start till March 31, 2007)
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

         Source of Funds               Type of    Estimate   Estimate    Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing   (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)  millions)
IDA-H009 Part B Grant (April 2002)                 27.00       27.00        100.00
IDA-H0720 - GRANT (04/05/2004)                     96.87       98.30        101.48
IDA-H1740 (Effective 10/16/2005)                   27.09       27.09        100.00
IDA-H2090 (Effective 05/31/2005)                   42.18       41.04        97.30
MULT-53939 (Effective 09/20/2004)       ARTF       169.98      168.69       99.24
JPN-54367 (Effective 04/10/2005)       Bilateral   26.08       25.93        99.42
Denmark (Acct. 27022)                  Bilateral   14.07       11.86        84.29
Norway (Acct. 27049)                   Bilateral    1.60        1.60        100.00
Netherlands (Acct. 27198)              Bilateral    0.86        0.00         0.00
Switzerland (Acct. 27188)              Bilateral    1.54        0.00         0.00
Borrower (MoF bridging -46831)        Advance      41.19       41.19        100.00
Total                                              448.46      442.7        98.72




                                             22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  Outputs                                   ECEPWP            NSP-I             NSP-I               Total
                                              outputs        Targets         outputs by          outputs by
                                           Dec. 31, 2004                     March 31,           March 31,
                                                                                 2007                2007
Part A: Block Grants for Communities
  Sub-projects meeting appraisal               5,962           15,116           16,496             22,45812
  criteria and receiving funds
  Sub-projects completed                        53             10,539           10,357              10,410
  Block Grant disbursement                      59.3           210.0             224.4               283.7
  (US$ million)
  Block Grant commitment                       120.0           304.8             183.7               313.7
  (US$ million)
  Percentage of communities                    100%             90%              100%                100%
  contributing at least 10% of sub-
  project costs
  Number of beneficiary families (in          496,833        1,260,000        1,720,084            2,216,917
  communities that receive block grant
  funding)
  Labor days created from NSP sub-           3,827,604       9,700,000        10,590,432          14,418,036
  projects
Part B: Community Facilitation and Sub-Project Preparation
  Villages with elected Community              6,181          10,254            10,321              16,502
  Development Councils
  Villages with Community                      6,181           9,432            10,082              16,263
  Development Plans
  Sub-Project proposals submitted              7,472          16,000            20,083              27,555
  Percentage of women voting in CDC           40-80%           >40%              >40%                >40%
  elections
  Communities with representation of           >90%            >40%               95%                95%
  women in CDCs (joint or separate)
  Districts                                     101             178               178                279
  Provinces                                     33               34                34                 34
  No. of Facilitating Partners                  21              NA                 24                 24
Part C: Capacity Building and Implementation Support
  Project Management Consultant                  1               1                 1                   1
  Community members trained in                27,350          393,000           408,171            472,234
  either procurement, FM, O&M
  Facilitating Partner field staff trained     2,607           5,000            1,81113              4,418
  MRRD staff trained                            714             850               263                950
Part D: External Monitoring and Evaluation
  Assessment of Facilitating Partners            1              NA                NA                   1
  External Project Evaluation                   NA               1                 1                   1




12        The 22,458 sub-projects are implemented by 12,270 communities (1.8 sub-projects per
community).
13        Figures on Facilitating Partner and MRRD staff trained do not include staff that also attended
training in the previous project period.


                                                     23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Block Grants are allocated to communities at a rate of US$200 per family with an upper limit of
US$60,000 per community.        The upper block grant limit was set at US$60,000 to enable
communities, most of which confronted extensive infrastructure damage due to the war as well as
unmet needs from decades of deferred development, to undertake meaningful rehabilitation and
development activities. A US$60,000 block grant corresponds to the construction cost of a
quality primary school. With an average village comprising around 150 families (equivalent to
900 persons), the average block grant is around US$26,000. Access to this allocation requires that
the community develops one or more eligible sub-project proposals within the framework of the
block grant allocation and its own contributions. The average number of sub-projects per village
is 1.8.

Methodology: For the efficiency analysis, case studies were drawn from several sources.
Project preparation in 2006 for the Second Emergency National Solidarity Project included an
economic analysis of 23 sub-projects completed in the provinces of Logar and Khost under the
NSP-I.    Evaluation reports by the Facilitating Partner Aga Khan Development Foundation
analyzed the impacts of completed sub-projects in Bamyan, Baghlan, and Badakhshan. During
the ICR mission, additional case studies were conducted to cover 22 completed sub-projects in
Kapisa, Panjshir, Kabul, and Parwan. Thus, a total of 45 sub-projects across nine provinces and
representing the four major sub-project sectors, namely irrigation, power, transport, and drinking
water supply, provided the data for analysis on sub-project costs and benefits. The four sectors
identified for the efficiency analysis accounted for 76% of the funded proposals, and 89% of the
block grants disbursed during the project period. For the cost effectiveness analysis, analysis was
undertaken based on the cost break-up available from a sample of five Facilitating Partners.

Sub-Project Benefits: The project has           Table-1 Distribution of sub-projects, block grants and beneficiaries
funded 16,496 sub-project proposals           Sector wise CDD              Total         Grants          Family
jointly prepared by the CDCs with             Sub-Projects                Projects     Disbursed      Beneficiaries
support    from    Facilitating  Partners     Water Supply                 24.5%         24.7%           24.2%
(Table-1).   The total value of block         Transport                    21.5%         27.7%           22.8%
grants disbursed by the project is $184       Irrigation                   16.7%         17.1%           15.6%
million, accounting for 85% of the grant      Power                        13.2%         19.8%           12.2%
commitments.     By the end of NSP-I,         Education                    12.0%          6.4%           13.5%
10,357 sub-projects were completed            Livelihood                   10.1%          2.2%            9.6%
with the balance in various stages of         Rural Development            1.9%           1.8%            1.9%
implementation. The contribution from         Agriculture                  0.1%           0.0%            0.1%
beneficiary communities is estimated at       Health                       0.1%           0.2%            0.1%
$32 million, accounting for 14.5% in          Total                       16,496        $184 M          1,582,488
overall   sub-project    investments    as
compared to the targeted share of 10% as minimum contribution. In fact, the actual community
contribution would constitute more than 14.5%, since not all the inputs made by the communities
are documented as was observed during the ICR mission field visits. The implemented sub-
projects benefited 1.6 million families consisting of 10 million beneficiaries, and provided 10.6
million labor days for the project villages/communities.




                                                 24

Sample analyses of 45 sub-projects representing the four major community sub-project sectors
were used to calculate the sector benefits before aggregating for the sub-projects as a whole. This
analysis is based on the following assumptions: (i) one-third of the sub-projects yield less than the
opportunity costs of investments
and/or become unsustainable       14 ,              Table-2 Estimated ERR for Sub-Projects by Sectors
and              (ii)             the
institutional/governance capacity                  Sub-projects              Present values,             ERR
                                                                         Million $, 2007 prices           (%)
created at the local and national
                                             Sectors                    Benefits Costs         NPV
levels is concurrent with the NSP-         Water supply & sanitation       113          62       52      30.0
I project implementation period.           Transport                        95          69       26      21.0
The    cost   of   sub-projects     is     Energy                          130          107      23      22.2
therefore estimated by including           Irrigation                       56          44       12      19.0

the full block grant investment            Sub-projects, over all          393          281     112      23.6

cost, the community contribution,
the cost of community facilitation, and the cost of sub-project preparation. The estimated rate of
return (Table-2) for the sub-projects varied from 19% to 30% across the major sub-sectors. For
the aggregate analysis of all sub-projects in the four major sub-sectors, which accounted for 89%
of the disbursed block grants, the estimated a rate of return was 23.6%. The Net Present Value
(NPV) generated by the sub-projects is estimated at $112 million during the ICR period.
However, actual benefits to the society would have been higher than the estimated benefits due to
the following reasons:

A. Optimal capacity utilization: Assuming similar sub-project circumstances, optimum
utilization of community capacity in planning and managing of future CDD projects would
maximize the returns to investments              Table-3 Higher Returns for full Institutional Capacity Utilization
made in project.        Even during the
project   period,     underutilization    of           Sub-projects           Present values,              ERR

community level institutional capacity                                    Million $, 2007 prices            (%)

has resulted in sub-optimal returns to the         Sectors               Benefits Costs NPV

society.   For instance, at the project           Water supply              158         79       79        32.9
                                                  Transport                 133         89       44        23.6
management level, capacity had been               Energy                    182        138       44        26.7
created to realize a monthly block grant          Irrigation                 78         56       22        21.5
disbursement of US$15 million to meet             Sub-projects, over all    551        362      188        26.7
the demands for CDD sub-project
investments.        However,       due    to
constraints on funding availability (see Section 2.2), actual disbursements were never more than
60% of capacity during the NSP-I period resulting in sub-optimal use of the capacity created
within the communities, the Facilitating Partners, and the NSP national office. The benefits
foregone by the society measured in terms of NPV during the project period is about $76 million
due to the 40% underutilization of capacity (Table-3). If the institutional and governance
capacity created by NSP at community level is fully utilized in future for the NSP follow-up
project, the potential rate of return increases from 32% to 43% for the four major sub-sectors, and




14       Based on the case studies analyzed, observations made during the ICR mission's field visits and
other mission reports.




                                                     25

to 36.6% for all the sub-projects. This would result in a potential NPV of $261 million from all
sub-projects during the project period.

B. Spill-over effects of sub-projects have the potential to generate more benefits over time.
Additional rural development investments, regardless of the funding source, that use the
experienced CDCs created by NSP as the entry-point have the potential to generate higher returns
per unit of investment (Box.1). Convergence of ongoing and proposed rural infrastructure,
agriculture, and micro credit development projects in the communities reached by NSP will have
quick and high marginal returns to investments in addition to direct poverty reduction impacts.
This was observed in one case study of a road sub-project, where the potential for agriculture and
livestock development increased following the improved road accessibility. Another example
observed during the ICR mission's field visits to NSP communities is the freeing of women's
labor due to mechanized threshing of wheat or provision of hand pumps for drinking water, a
potential that can be tapped through micro-credit funding for income generating activities that
enhance livelihoods.

 Box.1 Road connectivity triggers agriculture growth potential: In the villages of Deh Pashyan
 (Parwan province) and Dawlat Zai (Kabul province) both construction of new roads and rehabilitation of
 existing roads with culverts and retaining walls have been funded by NSP block grants. The community
 contribution in unskilled labor amounts to 16% of the investments. Positive impacts identified by the
 communities include savings in time to reach the market/district headquarters and savings in
 transportation costs for marketing of grapes. The grape marketing strategy has changed to benefit the
 producers. In the absence of roads it took almost a day to reach the market since grapes were transported
 on animals by the producers, and when reaching the market, prices were dictated by the traders. Thanks to
 the new accessibility, traders now come to the village, and even with a nominal charge of Afs 2 (4 cents)
 per one seer (7kg) of grapes as transportation costs, the producers now have a stronger bargaining position
 vis-a-vis the traders. Project beneficiaries reported substantial savings in transportation cost and better
 prices for grapes. However, in both communities, the road maintenance plans remain at a very informal
 level and need monitoring to sustain these impacts.

 Another significant impact of roads observed during the field visit is the new access to mechanical
 threshing of wheat. The mechanical thresher can now come to the village and there is a total shift from
 animal/human labor based threshing to mechanical threshing. The unit cost of threshing has come down
 substantially thereby increasing the profit margin for the wheat growing farmers by $36 per jerib (2000
 m2). More importantly, the grape and wheat producers are now planning to improve crop productivity in
 the coming seasons to maximize their incomes. With increasing substitution of machinery for animal
 power, farmers can keep dairy cows continuously instead of trading them for draft oxen at an extra cost of
 $140 during every cropping season. The poverty base line for rural Afghanistan is about $115 per capita
 per year. For resource poor small farmers, NSP sub-projects such as improvements in accessibility have
 spill-over effects that directly impact on rural poverty alleviation. Further, with the community driven
 initiatives taking root in local development planning and implementation, there now exists in these
 villages an untapped agricultural potential waiting to be exploited with regard to diversification and
 improvements to agricultural productivity covering wheat, horticultural crops and livestock.



C. Spin-off effects of the institutional empowerment to undertake community based
development can go beyond individual communities/villages both with regard to inter-community
relations and to shared public goods that require high investment. This was observed during the
mission's field visit and interactions with the Baba Qushqar village in Kabul province (Box.2):
Such spin-off effects arising from the community driven interventions need to be facilitated,
documented, and used for cross-learning by other communities to trigger similar ventures in other
communities. This will help maximizing the benefits from the community capacity already
created by the NSP in the project villages.



                                                     26

Box.2 Water supply sub-project producing spin-off effects: The Baba Qushqar village in Kabul
province has given top priority to solve the acute drinking water supply problem faced by its 459 families.
Hence, about 50% of the allocated block grant was used for installing 26 hand pumps in the village
providing efficient access to safe drinking water. Prior to this, the community was suffering from distantly
located and poor quality drinking water, and also faced a conflict situation with the private owned natural
spring that a nearby village used mainly for irrigating private agricultural land. Thus, this sub-project has
improved both drinking water quality and access, while at the same time preventing that the social conflict
over water sharing intensified.

Women and children report significant savings in the time spent for fetching drinking water. Prior to the
project, each family used to travel 3 to 4 km and spend a total of four hours daily to get water. Now hand
pumps are easily accessible for clusters of 18 families. More importantly, health related problems caused
by water borne diseases have decreased substantially after the project.

The community efforts in planning and managing community driven projects have also involved broader
initiatives to improve health conditions. One example of such a spin off from this new culture of community
driven development is that 37 CDCs have come together in Kabul province to contribute 17% from their
individual block grants for a jointly planned and managed maternity clinic.



The beneficial impacts of the NSP initiated CDD approach need to be sustained both at the
institutional and governance levels, and with regard to the infrastructure created in order to
maximize the societal benefits.          Adequate design and construction quality of sub-project
infrastructure is as important as ensuring financial sustainability to meet the annual operation and
maintenance costs. On both the fronts, the ICR mission observed ample scope for improvement
during the field visits (Box.3).

Box.3 Sustainability of a micro hydropower sub-project: The Deh Pashyan village in Parwan province
has spent about 3/4th of its allocated block grant for constructing a retaining wall (to prevent flooding of
village) and a micro hydro power plant (10 Kw capacity). The work is nearing completion and there is lack
of clarity regarding the technical design and planned utilization once this facility is commissioned. In the
original plan, only the retaining wall was planned, and a decision was later made to extend the wall to
enable installation of a micro hydro power plant. The current proposal is to provide power for lighting 600
bulbs in 200 homes. The water flow is stated to be perennial, but there is no plan as to how power will be
used in the day time, nor how the operation and maintenance of the plant will be managed. Substantial
savings in expenditure for lighting by each family is expected. The CDC has decided to charge 90 Afs per
family per month for the hydro-power supplied. Since the project is in the final stages of completion, only
projected benefits are discussed. While the threat of floods to the lands and village inhabitants is recognized
by the community, the threat of floods to the installed MHP is not factored in. While the priority of the
community is rightly identified, the planning, implementation and management of this type of sub-projects
need to be strengthened with adequate facilitation support.




                                                      27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

            Names                            Title                 Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Asger Christensen           Lead Social Development Specialist    SASAR Team Leader
Talib B. K. Esmail          Senior Operations Officer            SAROQ Institutional Spec.
Abdul I. A. Haji            Consultant                            AFTH3 Financial Management
Shawkat M.Q. Hasan          Procurement Spec.                     SARPS Procurement
Santhanam Krishnan          Consultant                            SARPS Procurement
Peter J. Middlebrook        E T Consultant                        SASPR Data analysis
Subhash Mittal              Consultant                           SARFM Financial Management
Hadi Abushakra              Chief Counsel                        LEGMS Legal
Christophe E. Bosch         Senior Water and Sanitation Economist ECSSD Env. Safeguards
Suzanne F. Morris           Senior Finance Officer                LOAG2 Loan Disbursement Unit
Theodosia Karmiris          Program Assistant                     SASAR Administrative Support
Supervision/ICR
Norman Piccioni             Lead Operations Officer              SASAR Team Leader (II)
Nihal Fernando              Senior Rural Development Spec        SASAR Team Leader (II)
Susanne Holste              Sr Transport. Spec.                  SASEI    Team Leader (III)
Mir Ahmad Ahmad             Operations Officer                   SASAR Operations
Zabiullah Ahrary            Team Assistant                       SACAF Administrative Support
Deepal Fernando             Sr Procurement Specialist            SARPS    Procurement (incl.ICR)
Quamrul Hassan              Procurement Specialist               SARPS    Procurement
Dhirendra Kumar             Consultant                           SARPS    Procurement
Manoj Agrawal               Consultant                           SARFM Financial Management
Vardah Khalil Malik         Assoc. Investment Officer            CMERI   Financial Management
Kenneth Okpara              Senior Financial Management Spec     SARFM Financial Mgt. (incl.ICR)
Suzanne F Morris            Senior Finance Officer               LOAG2 Loan Disbursement Unit
Amit Ramchandani            Finance Analyst                      SARFM Loan Disbursement Unit
Asta Olesen                 Senior Social Development Spec       SASES    Soc. Dev. & Safeguards
Mohammad Arif Rasuli        Environment Specialist               SASES    Safeguards
Matthew James Keir Stephens Social Development Spec.             EASSO    CDC By-Law
Mio Takada                  Young Professional                   YPP      M&E
Andrew Beath                Consultant                           SASAR Baseline Survey
Michael Haney               Sr Energy Spec.                      SASEI   Micro-Hydro
Makiko Watanabe             E T Consultant                       EASSO    Co-Financing - JSDF
S. Selvarajan               Consultant, Agricultural Economist   External ICR Economic Analysis
Zabiullah Ahrary            Team Assistant                       SACAF    SPN and ICR
Anna Cestari                Young Professional                   SASDE    ICR
Asger Christensen           Lead Social Development Specialist   SASDS    Team Leader (I and ICR)




                                             28

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                 22                        90.49
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:         22                        90.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                 12                        26.03
  FY05                                 52                       174.35
  FY06                                 31                       129.31
  FY07                                 17                        84.12
                        Total:        112                       413.81




                                    29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The governance impacts of NSP were assessed during the midterm evaluation undertaken for
MRRD in 2005-06 by the University of York.15 The main evaluation findings (p.viii) were, that
in communities reached by NSP there were significant evidence of:16

    · Empowerment of CDCs,
    · Improved community relations,
    · Increased public faith in the system of government.

Case studies conducted as part of the mid-term evaluation of 18 CDCs in different parts of the
country found that, while their composition and functions did vary between communities, the
CDCs are emerging as legitimate local governance institutions.               17   Thus, in eight of the
communities, the CDC constituted the sole community leadership, while in another eight,
leadership was shared with existing traditional leaders (arbab/malik and mullah), with the CDC's
authority fully recognized in the area of participation in community development, while
traditional leaders retained their leadership roles regarding representation to government and
arbitration of disputes. In the remaining two, leadership was either contested, or that of the CDC
was subsumed under traditional leaders. The efficacy of the CDC election process in curtailing
the influence of the existing local leadership, or at least ensuring more inclusive participation by
ordinary villagers, is supported by data from the Facilitating Partner International Rescue
Committee (IRC), which operates in Districts in Khost and Logar. The CDC profiles indicate
that 3% of CDC representatives in Khost and 1% in Logar were previously commanders, and 1%
and 5% respectively are religious figures. Estimates by the Facilitating Partner UN-Habitat for
CDCs in Herat province have 5% of the CDC representatives being commanders, mullahs, or
large landowners, whereas information from the Facilitating Partner CARE for Districts in
Ghazni has local elites constituting 50-70% of the CDC representatives.18

The mid-term evaluation also found that "NSP communities have far more tools than non-NSP
communities for envisaging problems, linking priorities, and planning. NSP communities are
therefore less reactive and more proactive, and have a significantly more favorable opinion of the
government that non-NSP communities do not share. The non-NSP communities have a strong
distrust of government and little faith in its ability to address their problems" (p.11). This finding
is paralleled in a report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies which states that "the
CDCs and tribal shuras are seen as more responsive to Afghan needs than provincial
governments and provincial councils, and in many cases are the only sign of improvement
villagers have seen in the past five years".19




15       Mid-term Evaluation of the National Solidarity Program, May 2006 (Final Draft Report, pp 337)
by the Post-War Reconstruction & Development Unit, University of York.
16       Comparable conclusions are found in Assessing the NSP: The Role of Accountability in
Reconstruction by Yama Torabi, Integrity Watch for Afghanistan, 2007 (www.tiri.org) (p.7, 24, 26).
17       In all surveyed CDCs, the elected female representatives had limited influence vis-a-vis the men,
and this was particularly problematical in the Eastern Pashtun areas such as Nangarhar.
18       The Role of Culture, Islam and Tradition in Community Driven reconstruction ­ A Study on the
International Rescue Committee's Approach to NSP by Kimberly A. Maynard, IRC, March 2007, p.15.
19       Breaking Point ­ Measuring Progress in Afghanistan, Center for Strategic and International
Studies, Washington DC, February 23, 2007, p. 47.


                                                     30

There are also indications that the presence of NSP correlate with/contribute to the stabilization of
a locality. Ministry of Education reports that throughout 1384 (March 2005- March 2006) there
were 72 school attacks in 7 provinces followed by 73 school attacks in 26 provinces in the first
half of 1385 (2006).20 Although NSP by January 2007 had reconstructed 196 schools in 18
provinces, only 5 cases of attacks on NSP-built schools have occurred ­ even though 52 of the
NSP schools were reconstructed in the five provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Ghazni, Khost and
Balkh, which count for more than 50% of the school attacks.21 This notwithstanding, the
deteriorating security situation has at the same time affected the ability of NSP to operate in high
risk areas. Between March and August of 2006, increasing security risks forced 11 Facilitating
Partners to suspend operations in 42 Districts.22

While the mid-term evaluation found that overall communities with CDCs had increased public
faith in the system of government, there were significant variations between communities
reflecting the attention and responsiveness of specific local administrations (p.74). However,
across these variations, there is a `demand for good governance' in the rural areas, and the
majority of people interviewed both in communities with and without CDCs "clearly thought that
a closer and more supportive relationship with government should be the norm" (p.76). The
clearest indication of the extent to which CDCs have expressed this `demand for good
governance' is the Declaration issued by 300 CDC delegates from 33 provinces gathered in Herat
during May 9-12, 2005, who proposed that:23

         · "According to Article 140 of the Afghanistan Constitution, which presents the
              concept of village councils, we request from His Excellency the President and the
              cabinet to decree that NSP CDCs are legally accepted as these Constitutional
              councils, since CDCs were elected according to international standards.
         · We, the CDCs, ask the Government to involve CDCs in the planning process of the
              Government through local institutions.
         · We ask to guide ministries of Health, Education, Public Affairs, Agriculture,
              Irrigation, Environment, Women's Affairs, and Youth Activities to use the capacity
              of CDCs in planning and project implementation and also assist with CDC capacity
              improvement.
         · We ask for Community Development Plans to be consolidated and used by the
              Government for improvement of the planning process at village, district and
              provincial levels."

Considering that NSP was met with pronounced skepticism by villagers when implementation
began in 2003, precisely because it was a government program, and that the often deep factional
divisions within villages frequently render intra-village collaboration difficult, the evaluation
findings and the demands from CDC representatives for institutionalization of the CDCs
document a considerable achievement, which has the potential of being consolidated and
expanded with regard to the local governance role of the CDCs. In turn, this process of `building
the state from below' would likely contribute to strengthen the overall legitimacy of the Afghan
state.



20       The National Strategic Plan for Education in Afghanistan (Draft ), December 2006
21       Inf. from NSP Management Information System and Human Rights Watch Report (vol. 18,
Number 6 C): Lessons in Terror. Attacks on Education in Afghanistan.
22       Maynard, 2007, p.13.
23       Declaration of CDC Members from 33 Provinces in Afghanistan. Herat Solidarity Exchange: "The
Future of CDCs", 9-12 May 2005.


                                                   31

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

See Annex 5 on CDC workshop in Herat in May, 2005.


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR


                                     Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
                          Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
                                  National Solidarity Program (NSP):  

                           Phase One  1st January 2005 to 31st March 2007                     
                                                    
1. Introduction

The National Solidarity Program (NSP) began as a component of the Emergency
Community Empowerment & Public Works Project (ECEPWP) in June 2002. It became
a fully fledged National Priority Program (NPP) in 2003 under Afghanistan's National
Development Framework. NSP promotes a new development paradigm whereby
communities are empowered to make decisions and manage resources during all stages of
the project cycle. The Program was designed to lay the foundation for a sustainable form
of inclusive local governance, rural reconstruction, and poverty alleviation. NSP is today
the largest community development program in the history of Afghanistan.

Usually the period from May 2003 to March 2007 is known as NSP Phase I, and the
period from 1st April 2007 to 31st March 2010 is known as NSP Phase II. However, as the
period till 31st December 2004 was actually under the ECEPWP, it is considered an NSP
Phase 0, and the period from 1st January 2005 to 31st March 2007, covered by this
Assessment, is formally known as NSP Phase I.

2. Progress Update

There is evidence of at least eleven sets of benefits which have been derived from the NSP I:
    1. Increased public perceptions of national solidarity achieved through state;
    2. Improved state-civil society relations as a consequence of improvements in national
        solidarity
    3. Greater awareness of the activities of government as a consequence of the work of the
        Public Communication Unit.
    4. The empowerment of rural communities through the establishment of a new legitimate
        form of community governance
    5. Heightened perceptions of community solidarity achieved through processes of
        community governance
    6. Delivery of governmental capacity development (provincial and district level MRRD,
        DAB and Ministry of Finance staff);
    7. Delivery of FP capacity development (training);
    8. Delivery of community capacity development (training);
    9. Direct forms of economic development through improved productive capacity and the
        provision of work in relation to certain NSP projects;


                                                 32

         10. Indirect forms of economic development facilitated by: a) increased economic activity
             arising from improved infrastructure, and b) savings derived from lower costs of
             production; and
         11. Improvements in the quality of rural life.

     The following table shows a summary of the progress of the program during NSP Phase I on a
     semi-annual basis for major indicators:

                                                                                        Estimated #   Estimated #
                                          Subproject Subproject              Block      of families   of families
                                          Proposals  Proposals Subprojects   Grants     benefiting    benefiting
          Communities CDCs                Submitted Approved   Completed     Disbursed  from social   from
Period    Mobilized     Elected  CDPs                                        (US$ mil.) mobilization  projects
Jan-05       7,343      6,900     6,801     7,472      6,968        155        69.00      1,035,000     580,667
Jun-05       9,382      8,681     7,880    11,224      11,135      1,003      104.39      1,302,150     927,917
Dec-05      10,617      10,357    10,175   16,126      15,692      3,362      158.36      1,553,550    1,307,667
Jun-06      14,042      12,614    11,912   19,383      19,046      6,311      183.38      1,892,100    1,587,167
Dec-06      16,801      16,072    15,487   24,577      23,844      8,843      249.49      2,410,800    1,987,000

Mar-07      16,914      16,502    16,263   27,555      26,603     10,410      283.67      2,475,300    2,216,917

     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design

     The main goal of NSP I was to reduce poverty through empowering communities with regard to
     improved governance, as well as social, human, and economic capital. The objectives of the
     Program were to: lay the foundations for a strengthening of community level governance and
     support community-managed sub-projects comprising reconstruction and development that
     improve the access of rural communities to social and productive infrastructure and services. The
     expected outcomes of the NSP I were: the establishment of a framework for village level
     consultative decision making and representative local leadership as a basis for interaction within
     and between communities on the one hand, and with the administration and aid agencies on the
     other, and local level reconstruction, development, and capacity building which will lead to a
     decrease in poverty levels. The design of NSP I consisted of the following four core elements:

         · Facilitation at the Community level to assist communities establish inclusive community
             institutions in the form of Community Development Councils (CDC) through elections,
             reach consensus on priorities and activities, develop eligible sub-proposals that comply
             with NSP appraisal criteria, and implement approved project sub-proposals;
         · A system of direct block grant transfers to support rehabilitation or development activities
             (sub-projects) planned and implemented by the elected CDC in cooperation with
             Facilitating Partners (FP);
         · A series of capacity building activities to enhance the competence of CDC members for
             financial management, procurement, technical skills, and transparency;
         · Activities, which link local institutions to the government administration and to aid
             agencies with available services and resources.

     The Program attempted to target the needs of rural communities by employing community-driven
     development, delivered through a collaborative partnership, encompassing the central
     government, local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and the
     communities ­ represented by newly elected Community Development Councils (CDCs). Today,
     the NSP forms the central component of an architecture of national programs managed by MRRD,


                                                     33

designed both to help the Afghan people to rebuild their lives and nation, and to demonstrate that
the Afghan government, with technical assistance, could develop the inclusive governance
structures required to sustain a stable state.

The evaluation of NSP I reveals significant gains to the Afghan people in relation to institution
building (limited democratization), capacity development (mainly in skills development), and
social solidarity at the national and community levels (and to a lesser degree at the provincial and
district levels). Impressive benefits have also been derived economically by: creating livelihood
opportunities and direct forms of economic development through improved productive capacity
and the provision of work in relation to certain NSP projects; and the provision of indirect forms
of economic development, facilitated by increased economic activity arising from improved
infrastructure and savings derived from lower costs of production. Important gains in gender
equality have also been achieved in certain regions. The NSP I was a distinctive program
because the disbursement of bock grants to rural communities was a policy instrument for both
`bottom-up' institution building through the creation of directly elected CDCs at the village level,
and pro-poor economic growth. The Program was also distinctive in that it is implemented
through the government and has nation-wide coverage. It was designed both to help the rural
communities rebuild their lives and their nation, and to demonstrate that the Afghan government,
with assistance, could develop the inclusive governance structures required to sustain a stable
government. These are all important qualities for empowering institutions and sustaining
development outcomes.

MRRD responsibilities included the formulation of rural development policies, strategies and
guidelines; the coordination and monitoring of other implementing agencies working in rural
development, as well as resource mobilization for the program. The employment of the NSP/OC
was particularly important for the speedy implementation of the Program, and can be credited
with much of the achievements of NSP I. Equally critical for the comprehensive progress of the
Program was the contracting of NSP Facilitating Partners (FPs), whose role was to actually help
the community go through the whole NSP experience.

The initial design of the NSP recognized that in an operating environment of chronic emergencies
and media-led donor support, community participation is the key to the sustainable and effective
rehabilitation of public sector service delivery. By placing the communities at the centre of the
rehabilitation process, NSP potentially offered the government and other development agencies
the opportunity to adapt their responses to the complex dynamics of long-term recovery. The real
challenge for post-war reconstruction is to develop local institutional capacities for providing
assistance to recovery processes, in a manner that reinforces rather than undermines the dynamics
of recovery at the local level. This was something that NSP has certainly attempted in its first
phase while focusing on the values and impact of moving away from demand-driven quick-
impact aid packages towards a medium to long-term development continuum.

Overall, the development objective and design of the NSP I have been a success, given the
difficult environment in which it operated. Nonetheless, some problems can be identified in the
process of program formulation and inception, which have created various obstacles. The main
tension between the rationale of the NSP and its implementation was derived from the limited
time-frame established for its implementation, which had a major down-stream effect on the
successful achievement of the original goal of the Program. What was fundamentally a
governance and development program had to be rolled-out by MRRD with an emphasis on
increased coverage and rapid disbursement of block grants to communities. This emphasis was a
rational response to the political climate of the time and has reflected the critical need to provide
a visible governmental presence in the provinces, districts and villages of Afghanistan. It was a


                                                 34

conscious political act of state building, seeking to build public confidence in a nascent
government.

4. Assessment of Implementation and Operational Experience

NSP's successes have included mobilization over 10,600 communities, helping elect over 10,300
Community Development Councils (CDCs), helping communities complete over 10,200
Community Development Plans (CDPs), helping communities prepare and submit over 20,400
subproject proposals, approving over 20,600 subproject proposals, financing over 15,000
subprojects, and overseeing completion of over 10,300 subprojects. The communities mobilized
have benefited from trainings in basic project management, accounting, procurement, CDC by-
laws, and monitoring. At the end of the NSP I period, NSP had financed 22,458 subprojects with
25.5% of them in the water and sanitation sector, 21.21% in the transport sector, 17.33% in the
irrigation sector, 15.09 in the energy/power sector, 10.47% in the education sector, 8.54% in the
livelihoods sector, and the remaining in various other sectors. The total disbursements of block
grants amounted to US$ 283.67 million.

Another of NSP's strengths have been integrating women in leading development, with women
members in the "mixed CDCs", and with women's subcommittees and executive members in
separate gender CDCs. NSP has also supported the communities to benefit from peer learning by
cross-visits to other CDCs in the district/province and sometimes even to neighboring
districts/provinces. NSP has also equipped several communities to establish linkages with other
development actors in the neighborhood. This has resulted in NSP CDCs also mobilizing funds
and resources from other donors for other development priorities of their communities that were
not financed by NSP block grants.

A nation-wide gathering of NSP CDC members (CDC National "Jirga") in August-September
2005 resulted in considerable media attention to highlight the needs/priorities of rural
Afghanistan, the communities' vision for their own development, and their eagerness for
increased responsibilities for CDC members and the CDC sustainability. NSP thus provided these
elected representatives of rural communities from all over the country a platform to meet and
speak to the central government ministers, and the President of Afghanistan.

During NSP I, the Program came to be recognized as the flagship program of the Government of
Afghanistan. In November 2006, the success of the Program led the President of Afghanistan to
pass a degree containing the CDC by-laws which recognized the NSP CDCs as the grassroots
governance and development body of rural Afghanistan. In particular, CDCs are now legally in
charge of supervision of development projects as well as all institutional and development actors
shall now cooperate with CDCs at community level. This in turn consolidates the democratization
process, strengthens the political participation of the rural population, creates a community based
entry-point for development interventions as well as forms a network with sub-national
administrations.

However, when it came to implementing the Program, the NSP faced a combination of some
common implementation problems that are faced by large multi-faceted development initiatives.
The main challenge to effective and efficient NSP financial management that existed in NSP I
was that financial management and procurement responsibilities for the NSP were split between
various entities (NSP OC, MRRD core departments etc). Continuous and significant delays
existed in disbursements of block grants due to a variety of reasons including lacking of funding,
lack of liquidity of available funding, delayed bank transfers, delayed request processing, delayed
transfer or proposals etc. During the first few months of 2005, several changes were introduced to


                                                 35

improve the efficiency of the system. A simplified disbursement policy introduced with the
revised Operational manual of early 2006 also further reduced delays.

NSP has faced accusations from a narrow section of the Government of Afghanistan (GoA) of not
being cost effective in its delivery mechanisms. The accusation is not without merit when one
considers that all delivery costs for NSP (OC, FPs, MRRD etc) continued to be incurred when
there are no disbursements being made due to lack of funding availability or liquidity. The table
below shows that there were no disbursements made for over 400 days during the NSP I period:

            Period (2005)           No. of days         Period (2006-07)         No. of days
    16 Jan 05 to 27 Jan 05              12         06 Jan 06 to 16 Jan 06            11
    25 Apr 05 to 30 Apr 05               6         27 Jan 06 to 07 Feb 06            12
    09 May 05 to 19 May 05              11         09 Feb 06 to 13 Feb 06            5
    01 Jun 05 to 15 Jun 05              15         15 Feb 06 to 28 Feb 06            13
    30 Jun 05 to 06 Jul 05               7         01 Mar 06 to 08 Apr 06            39
    29 Jul 05 to 05 Aug 05               8         23 Apr 06 to 30 Jul 06            98
    18 Aug 05 to 24 Aug 05               7         22 Oct 06 to 28 Oct 06            7
    31 Aug 05 to 06 Sept 05              7         30 Nov 06 to 24 Dec 06            24
    21 Sep 05 to 26 Sep 05               6         26 Dec 06 to 08 Jan 07            13
    20 Oct 05 to 27 Oct 05               7         25 Jan 07 to 13 Feb 07            20
    01 Nov 05 to 07 Nov 05               7         16 Feb 07 to 31 Mar 07            44
    23 Nov 05 to 18 Dec 05              26         Total                            405

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Lack of Clear Baseline: One of the main problems that the NSP I experienced was the lack of
collection of accurate base-line data on the NSP processes, and this undermined the subsequent
ability to plan and meet existing and future targets.

Funding Gaps: The lack of continuous liquidity of block grant fund floats was the most
important factor affecting implementation. It caused delays in block grant disbursements often
(thus resulting in frustration and lack of trust among the communities, and sometimes delays in
project completion as funds were not available during the limited construction season); delays in
payments to FPs (which then impacted their timely roll-out to contracted communities and
adequate staff inputs and resources mobilized in the field thus affecting larger program
outcomes); increase in the average per-community-delivery-cost of NSP (which then led to
frustration among other Government Ministries as well as donors), etc. The following table shows
the financial commitments from NSP I that need to be carried over to NSP II:


                 Financial commitments from NSP phase 1 as of 31 March 2007

 No     Item                                      Block Grant          Block Grant
                                                 commitments         disbursements    Balance

        Remaining BG payments (average

 1      commitment of US$26,000 to 17.400
        communities minus actual net            452,556,000        283,672,957        168,883,043

        disbursements)

 No     Item                                    Pending
                                                commitments        Expenditure        Balance

 2      Remaining payments to FPs               71,590,701         51,304,729         20,285,972

 3      Remaining MRRD Incremental              1,952,463          495,780            1,456,683



                                                 36

       Operating Cost

 4     Remaining OC fees to GTZ­IS             14,495,698        8,187,136           6,308,561

 5     Remaining payments for DSCRW            13,075,734        4,366,094           8,709,640

 6     Remaining NSP operation costs           3,600,000         2,623,943           976,057
 Sub total
                                               104,714,596       66,977,682          37,736,913


 No    Item                                    Loan              Repayment           Balance

 7     Loan to NSP provided by the MoF to
       be repaid in 1386                       41,900,000        0                   41,900,000

 Grand total                                   600,361,436       351,841,479         248,519,956


Security: The security situation in several areas of NSP I coverage considerably deteriorated over
the reporting period. This led to program suspensions by FPs in several communities and districts
for varying periods during NSP I. NSP I has also witnessed NSP FP staff being murdered or held
hostage or receiving threats, offices attacked, burned, stolen from etc. The deteriorating security
thus delayed the planned program activities in certain areas.

Delays in FP procurement and payments: For most FPs, the year 1 contracts expired in the 3rd
quarter of 2004. Due to lengthy negotiations with FPs and administrative processing time, the
contract amendments were not finalized on time, resulting in delays totaling 49 months for all 19
FPs concerned. Even after obtaining the Non-Objection-Letter (NOL) from the WB, contract
amendments were signed after submission to (sequentially) MRRD, MoF, Office of the President
and back to MRRD, causing additional delays totaling 41 months for all 16 FPs concerned.
Consequently, work in 4,500 new communities of year 2 was delayed by an average of 3 months
for each of the 16 FPs. As this could not be compensated through the "sub-projects pipeline" it
delayed the implementation of over 2,000 sub-projects in about 1,200 communities, or in
financial terms, USD 22 million worth in BG disbursements. In addition, payments of invoices
for FPs services were often behind schedule. The resulting lack of liquidity became a serious
obstacle for the mobilization work of the FPs.

Smaller value and larger number of sub-projects: During the NSP phase 1, more and more
CDCs started opting for smaller value projects and using their block grant entitlements for 2 or
more projects. This resulted in an average of 1.86 sub-projects per CDC for appraisal. In total
56.2 percent of the communities submitted more than one sub-project proposal. This nearly
doubled the total number of proposals, which had to be consulted, submitted, appraised, approved
and funds disbursed. The unavoidable consequence was an increase of the delivery costs in
absolute figures but also per unit (i.e. per sub-project or per BG disbursed). On the other hand,
this had positive governance impacts, since communities undertook planning and management of
sub-projects more than once, and it allowed to respond to the needs of a larger part of the
community.

Insufficient engineering capacity: Most sub-projects involved construction work and therefore
demanded engineering capacity with FPs to assist communities in developing quality proposals,
and field engineering capacity with NSP and MRRD provincial offices to appraise proposals and
to supervise their implementation. During large periods in NSP phase 1, the engineering
capacities were insufficient in terms of quality and quantity, which lead to delays in approvals
and revisions.




                                                37

6. Lessons Learned

6.1    Lessons learned and recommendations at framework level ("upstream")

No.    Lessons learned                            Recommendations/ Possible Changes for NSP II
1.     The most significant delays of the NSP       The strong commitment of World Bank and donors to
       are not caused by the difficult working      the NSP should be matched by a timely fulfillment of
       environment but by factors related to the    agreed obligations with regard to funding.
       overall framework at government and          The strong commitment of the GoA should be matched
       donor level and therefore are beyond the     by more coordination between Ministries and more
       authority of the NSP management.             consistent expectations.
2.     The insufficient replenishment of Block      Responsibility for tracking the overall program budget,
       Grant funds is the single most significant   donor commitments, and disbursements should be
       bottleneck of the program; hindering all     consolidated with the NSP management.
       implementation levels and threatens the      All NSP planning efforts are void without a timely
       acceptance of the NSP as a whole.            replenishment of BG funds, which should be guaranteed
                                                    by upfront fulfillment of donors' commitments. Fund
                                                    raising should be professionalized and consolidated in a
                                                    single office.
3.     Drastic changes in expectations of the       Program objectives should be defined in a clear and
       political level and the donor framework      unequivocal way and should be maintained in the
       (e.g. nation-wide roll-out) affect the       medium-term.
       direction and effectiveness of the NSP.
4.     Delivery of immediate results for            The incentive to provide rapid results on the ground
       communities and the sustainable building     should not take precedence over the capacity building.
       of capacity are conflicting elements,        In the medium and longer term capacities at community
       which need to be balanced carefully.         level are the condition for sustainable and cost-effective
                                                    delivery of development interventions.
5.     Key program targets (BG disbursement,        NSP performance targets need to take into consideration
       roll-out) should reflect the actual time     a feasible and more realistic implementation period.
       required for community mobilization and      Targets should be specified in ranges rather than
       sub-project implementation.                  absolute numbers.
                                                    The roll-out plan needs to adhere more consistently to
                                                    agreed selection criteria and should provide alternatives
                                                    in case of non-accessibility of specific regions (e.g. for
                                                    security considerations).
6.     Long delays in the approval of contracts     FP contracts should be set for a period of at least two
       for FPs cause dramatic limitations           years with safeguards in case of non- performance.
       throughout the implementation                Procedures for processing contracts should be less
       framework.                                   bureaucratic avoid duplicated evaluations and clearly
                                                    define responsibilities.
                                                    The NSP management should have the authority in
                                                    approving at least contract amendments.
7.     Long delays in the procurement process       NSP procurement responsibility and authority should be
       for critical goods hamper the working        integrated into the NSP management with frequent
       conditions of the delivery structure.        external supervision.
                                                    In issuing NOLs, the WB procurement department
                                                    should better utilize its "institutional memory" and make
                                                    filing systems more efficient.



                                                 38

No. Lessons learned                          Recommendations/ Possible Changes for NSP II
8.  The choice of institutional arrangements    It should be more considered that the establishment of
    featuring performance based contracting     such arrangements takes time, and expectations
    of service providers for implementation     regarding how quickly operations can begin on the
    (FPs) and management (OC/MSC) has           ground need to be realistic.
    enabled a rapid start and high level of
    NSP activities.


6.2 Lessons learned and recommendations at the program management level

Nr. Lessons learned                          Recommendations/ Possible Changes for NSP II
9.  The decentralized approach for             Any further decentralization of responsibilities should
    appraising and approving subprojects at    consider how the NSP/MSC's experience and expertise
    PO level is functioning well and has       can be utilized, and how such changes affect
    achieved clear vertical lines of           accountability.
    accountability.

10. Slow transfers of BG funds from the        The agreement with DAB needs to be monitored and
    DAB to provincial CDC bank accounts        enforced. If DAB performance remains weak in certain
    have been speeded up by obtaining a        provinces, alternative approaches should be identified.
    MoU from DAB on transfers within 2         DAB should recognize that CDCS are public entities and
    weeks.                                     allow the unlimited maintenance of CDC bank accounts at
                                               DAB branches.

11. The web-based proposal tracking            The system should be decentralized further through entry
    system allows HQ and provincial staff      of key proposal documents in the MIS by the POs in order
    to track proposal status and address       to eliminate the transfer of "hard copies" to HQ and thus
    delays in a timely manner.                 reduce disbursement times/delays.

12. The capability of the NSP MIS to           The MIS and tracking system should be extended to cover
    produce reports for monitoring and for     the complete service delivery chain (from CDC
    management decisions has not been          mobilization to BG disbursement).
    fully utilized.                            More standard MIS report templates should be developed
                                               to support management decisions and inform stakeholders
                                               on key performance indicators.
                                               The MIS should be expanded in order to produce data
                                               with regard to the relevant I-ANDS benchmarks.

13. Frequent ad hoc requests of MRRD and       The ToRs of the MIS and reporting requirements should
    donors on the MIS distract the             be defined more precisely and adhered to.
    department from its core tasks.            Ad hoc requests on specific reports should be reduced to
                                               the minimum.

14. The MIS can be further focused on its      Expanding the data entry at PO level allows MIS at HQ
    core tasks by allowing more data entry     better response to the immediate needs of NSP
    by Provincial Offices.                     management reduces over all MIS costs, strengthens the
                                               NSP ownership at provincial level.

15. Insufficient use of management and         Existing planning instruments need to be expanded (work
    planning instruments hampers               plan, disbursement plan, procurement plan) and new ones
    management decisions and                   be introduced.
    communication with the
    implementation framework.

16. Program delivery costs relative to total   The costs of NSP management can be reduced by either
    costs and in relation to BG funds were     adjusting the provided capacity of the sub-project pipeline
                                               to the expected BG flow or by ensuring the replenishment


                                             39

Nr. Lessons learned                            Recommendations/ Possible Changes for NSP II
      slightly higher than expected.             of BG funds at the intended level.

17.   The complicated monitoring of FP           FP contract monitoring should be simplified further by
      contracts distracts FP management from     restricting it to monitoring of outputs (milestones) and
      direct communication with FPs.             introduction of certification of FPs.

18.   Complicated procurement rules of           Sub-project goods procurement should be simplified by
      goods and services for sub-projects        not tying it on World Bank procurement procedures,
      represent a high burden for CDCs and       allowing simplified procurement on the basis of standard
      FPs.                                       prices, more simple and standardized contracts for
                                                 suppliers, training for CDCs and FPs.

19.   The banking system continues to be a       Specific projects to improve the efficiency of DAB and to
      bottleneck for BG transfers to             establish private banks are necessary.
      communities.

20.   The insufficient engineering capacity in   Engineering capacities should be further improved and
      terms of quality and quantity has been a   supported by decentralizing engineering checks further,
      major bottleneck for planning and          developing instructions for engineering checks of complex
      monitoring sub-projects.                   projects, introducing certification of contractors, more
                                                 standard sub-projects, improving the construction cost
                                                 data base, standard contracts.


21.   The M&E function of NSP has been too       The structure and mandate of the M&E department should
      much focused on monitoring and             be re-designed; monitoring should be decentralized as
      neglected evaluation.                      much as possible, broader evaluation studies to be
                                                 outsourced and M&E at HQ to increase its coordination
                                                 function.

22.   It has been difficult to sufficiently      The NSP training function should be further strengthened
      provide capacity building alongside        by replacing the cascade system with training modules,
      NSP implementation.                        focusing the training department on facilitating of
                                                 contracted training providers and by decentralizing
                                                 training to the regional level.


6.3 Lessons learned and recommendations at Facilitating Partner and CDC level
   ("downstream")

Nr. Lessons learned                             Recommendations
23.   Initially the periods of time between         It is essential that adequate time is anticipated and
      selection of communities and election of      reserved for mobilizing communities. This ensures that
      CDCs were underestimated.                     program targets are based on a feasible timeframe.

24.   The initial project design did not            The interest of the communities in several but smaller
      anticipate the interest of communities to     sub-projects should be accepted. A minimum value for
      propose more than one sub-project. The        each sub-project (e.g. USD 2,000) and/or a simplified
      higher number of proposals (average 1.7)      approval process for small and standardized sub-
      increased the workload for approval and       projects should be considered. It should be analyzed
      BG disbursement as well as the program        whether multiple sub-projects reflect mature decision-
      delivery costs.                               making within the community or the failure to reach
                                                    consensus on community priorities.

25.   The initial policy requiring three            The reduction to two installments in the OM version of
      installments per sub-project delayed BG       Jan 2006 should be continued and the results be
      disbursement and sub-project                  evaluated.




                                                40

 Nr. Lessons learned                                  Recommendations
        implementation.

 26.    It proved to be difficult fully utilizing the   In NSP II, a more systematic identification and
        expertise accumulated within communities        documentation of experience and of best practices as
        and FPs.                                        well as a regular exchange between FPs and between
                                                        CDCs are necessary.

 27.    It remained a challenge for FPs to balance      Engineering capacities of FPs should be further
        the need for high engineering quality of        improved and supported by providing training,
        sub-projects with the need for rapid            providing more technical manuals, further
        achievement of outputs.                         standardization of sub-projects.

 28.    Involvement of women in decision-taking         The project should draw still more on experiences by
        needs to be strengthened in ways which          FPs to refine its facilitation techniques for the
        are not threatening cultural values on          promotion of women's participation
        gender relations.

 29.    The NSP alone cannot guarantee the              To ensure the sustainability of CDCs beyond the project
        institutional sustainability of the elected     period the roles of CDCs should be strengthened: as
        CDCs as local level governance bodies.          entry-point for other line ministries and development
                                                        interventions for communities (health, education etc.),
                                                        linkages with local and regional administrations,
                                                        involvement in government services provision.


7. Conclusion

In conclusion, the MRRD would like to restate that it considers NSP I a success in its design,
objective and implementation, considering the framework conditions in which it worked. The
MRRD is thankful to the donors (the World Bank, the contributions through the ARTF and bi-
lateral donors) and the GoA for their support in financing the program and/or providing oversight
through the Inter-Ministerial and (later) the NSP Steering Committee. MRRD also acknowledges
that a considerable portion of the achievements of NSP Phase I must be attributed to the German
Technical Cooperation International Services (GTZ-IS) that formed the NSP OC, and a further
acknowledgement to the 24 NSP Facilitating Partners over this period. Shortly after the NSP I
period, the NSP received a nomination for the IBM Innovations Award for transforming
Government. While the nomination was received just when NSP II started, it speaks volumes of
the success and recognition of NSP I in reaching its governance objectives.

In spite of its achievements, the MRRD still recognizes that NSP I was plagued by a number of
problems in its operations and implementation. The Ministry is committed to taking measures to
correct or minimize these problems during NSP II. However, it should be noted that almost all of
the problems faced in NSP I will require joint efforts from the donors, the MRRD, the MSC, the
FPs, and other NSP stake-holders to resolve. The MRRD seeks more coordinated efforts from all
stake holders in this regard.




                                                     41

MRRD Comments on Draft ICR

NSP has noted with great concern that the risks to its development objectives has been rated as
significant. NSP agrees that a lot more action and coordination needs to be undertaken to reduce
these risks.

The NSP has noted that the Bank believes that the NSP MIS has not been an effective tool to
provide inputs for an assessment of the achievement of the project outcomes. This has been
because no clear framework was provided during the MIS set-up, and hence it evolved based on
reporting demands at that time (which were so focused on block grant disbursements and
subprojects, rather than larger outcomes). NSP commits to working more closely with the World
Bank's M&E and MIS experts to ensure that our MIS and M&E systems/departments are more
effective in future.

As recommended in the ICR, NSP will be focusing on more external assessments to provide the
program expert opinion on focused areas.

The recommendation (# 7) of a more operational forum to define practical coordination of rural
development on an ongoing basis is indeed welcome (p. 18). It would be important to have the
"buy-in" of all the TTLs of the relevant Bank-financed programs in such a forum. MRRD
requests the Bank's NSP team to advice on how this may be realized.

When reviewing the outputs by components (Annex 2), it is obvious that the only two targets that
were not met (i.e. number of subprojects completed and total block grant commitments) were
primarily due to lack of continuous and adequate financing. NSP is acutely aware of this problem
and is seeking donor support even at this juncture when funding is temporarily adequate.

NSP especially appreciates the economic and financial analysis (Annex 3) undertaken as part of
the ICR. The estimated average ERR is impressive, and it is important for us to have this kind of
data, compiled by experts outside of NSP, to relay to potential donors and critics.

The NSP also takes this opportunity to thank the Bank for acknowledging MRRD's continued
commitment to the NSP and the corrective measures already taken to improve program
implementation.




                                                42

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments by NSP Cofinanciers

European Community: Overall, it is a very good summary of challenges and impacts of NSP
associated with a lucid assessment. Especially Part 4 on page 15. It is the first time that I read so
clearly on the challenges ahead namely on sustainability.

Impact on poverty reduction on page 11 might be more detailed and analyzed. An example is
electricity in the form of generators: which are the real impacts on poverty reduction and how.
Often generators are on in the evenings and therefore do not allow much of a productive activity
during the days like cottage industry etc., plus we know that the communities do not always have
the means to pay for the fuel and sometimes for the maintenance. Again, on the issue of
sustainability, the mentioning of the low quality of engineering also has a detrimental impact on
the sustainability of initial impact on poverty reduction.

This concern is not recent. There is a need for analytical work on poverty impacts, and so far we
are too general in this particular side of the NSP.

At this stage of implementation of NSP we should really know the real impact on poverty
reduction and how since this aspect was one of the questioned aspects of the NSP.

Swiss Agency for Development and Co-operation: We fully agree with the outcome of the
report, but would like to highlight three areas which attract our attention:

    1) Financing shortfalls caused not only delays for the project implementation but also
         damage for the credibility and image of NSP respectively of the Facilitating Partners.
         We appreciate that this issue is properly addressed in the report.

    2) We equally welcome the comments with regard to monitoring and the Management
         Information System. Though a lot has been done we believe that there will be still space
         for improvement - on all levels from output to impact-monitoring.

    3) As the report rightly points out, the future and sustainability of the CDCs remain
         somehow uncertain and have to be seen in the context of a coherent governance structure.
         It is of great concern for us if "the validity of the NSP itself is continually questioned by
         other provincial level ministries" and we welcome all efforts to bring some light into this
         discussion.


Comments by NSP Facilitating Partners


Assessment of development objective and design
The general consensus amongst the Facilitating Partners (FPs) is that the program design is strong
and the NSP is effectively laying a foundation for national governance. However, the impact of
the program on poverty alleviation is more difficult to ascertain as no substantial economic
benefit analysis has been done to date.




                                                   43

The major strengths of the program design are the transfer of funds directly to communities,
enabling a strong sense of ownership of the program, and the democratic elections through secret
ballots which ensure that poor and marginalized peoples are included in decision-making
processes.    However, a major weakness of the program remains the failure to develop
mechanisms to adequately incorporate the significant influx of returnees (both internally
displaced people and returning refugees).

The most significant flaw with the program design is the failure to ensure recognition of the
CDCs by other donors and government ministries, which significantly affects the sustainability of
the program. Another problem with the design is the indicators, which remain focused on
infrastructure development rather than achievement of governance objectives. Limited tools exist
to assess the quality of training or the actual capacity of CDCs, which should be addressed as a
priority in the next phase of the NSP.


Assessment of implementation and operational experience
Implementation of the NSP has been enormously successful, with rapid expansion enabling it to
reach more than 17,000 communities by 31st March 2007. Despite significant problems (detailed
below) and the urgent need for consolidation of existing CDCs, the FPs in general remain
committed to the program and to supporting the CDCs through additional complementary
programming.

Delayed transfer of block grant funds: The major problem with implementation has been the
enormous delays in transferring block grant funds to communities, which undermined the
credibility of all stakeholders in the program, particularly government, facilitating partners and
CDC members. The delay in funds transfer also increased program costs by extending the time
required for CDCs to utilize their block grants.

Delayed payment of FP invoices: The quality of the facilitation also suffered due to continual
delays in payment of FP invoices, which prevented FPs completing recruitment of essential staff.
For smaller agencies, particularly national NGOs, this resulted in FP staff working without
salaries or sufficient resources (such as vehicles and computers) demonstrating considerable
commitment to the NSP and to rural communities. But the situation undermined morale and
contributed to the loss of experienced staff from the NSP.

Overly complex operational procedures: Despite extremely low literacy levels amongst the rural
population, NSP procedures require a high number of complex forms to be completed for CDCs
to receive and account for block grant funds. Despite recognizing the need to simplify forms and
procedures, the World Bank recently requested increased CDC reporting requirements and the
provision of bank statements (wherever possible) to validate CDC expenditure, which will create
further delays in the utilization of block grants by CDCs. The complicated forms and procedures
of the NSP also limits the participation of poorer and marginalized groups, as they are less likely
to have the necessary literacy skills.

Poor quality of projects: Communities generally lack the technical skills to adequately
implement and/or select contractors for the projects of their choice, leading to significant
problems with construction quality. This needs to be addressed through more intensive training,
supervision and monitoring, but the shortage of experienced, qualified engineers in Afghanistan
and restrictive budgets makes this difficult for FPs to address. The MRRD/NSP technical teams
need to conduct additional monitoring of projects during implementation rather than simply
focusing on monitoring after projects are completed.

Consultation with FPs: The original program design was developed through extensive
consultation with a range of NGOs with experience in Afghanistan. However, the level of


                                                  44

consultation with FPs has varied significantly since implementation commenced, causing
frustration amongst FPs about their inability to provide input to or be informed on the overall
strategic directions of the program. Many FPs feel that their input on the future of the program is
not considered in final decisions. FPs are further discouraged by negative attitudes towards
NGOs, reflected in public statements by government and MRRD representatives.

Existing mechanisms for consultation should be further strengthened. Regular consultation with
FPs should be used more effectively to share lessons learned and to provide guidance on key
issues, such as human capacity development projects and increasing women's effective
participation in the NSP. In addition, there needs to be greater commitment from all stakeholders
for effective consultation between the World Bank, MRRD/NSP and the FP Representation
Group to discuss the strategic direction of the program and higher-level issues impacting
implementation. The MRRD/NSP should also share information more effectively with FPs, such
as sharing the NSP MIS data.

FP contracts: The contracting of facilitation services for the NSP continues to be problematic,
with significant delays resulting from protracted discussion and disagreement on World Bank
procurement processes.      For the NSP 2, final decisions on contractual processes created
significant increased work for all stakeholders to prepare and review multiple proposals and
contracts per FP. The increasing complexity and changing requirements and regulations of the
procurement process increased the workload for FPs and the MRRD/NSP, drawing limited
resources away from actual program implementation.

Monitoring of the program: Despite interest in the NSP as the only significant governance
program in Afghanistan, monitoring remains focused on quantitative data such as the number of
projects designed, implemented and completed, rather than measures of the quality of
implementation. This is reinforced through FP performance targets of project and block grant
completion, rather than indicators of the quality of training and/or community mobilization
processes and the achievement of governance objectives.

Major factors affecting implementation and outcome
The lack of effective support for the NSP from other government ministries created delays with
the approval of FP contracts and payments, and caused delays with projects requiring the
approval of other ministries, such as the construction of schools and clinics.

Program implementation suffered from the lack of a long-term strategic vision, partially as a
result of frequent changes in the leadership of the MRRD/NSP and World Bank teams. This is
further exacerbated by a lack of data and adequate planning for program expansion, and changes
in the funding environment.

The deteriorating security conditions have caused significant delays with implementation,
particularly in the high-risks areas where implementation has been suspended for significant
periods.

Lessons learned

Longer facilitation time: Communities choosing to implement multiple small projects through
the NSP, combined with delays in block grant fund transfers, resulted in CDCs requiring more
time than expected to utilize their block grant entitlements. In addition, more time is needed to
establish the CDCs as effective, accountable governance structures with transparent leadership
and participatory decision-making procedures.



                                                45

Involvement of traditional leaders: The involvement of traditional leaders throughout the process
is essential to ensure strong community ownership of the program. The initial mobilization
process must be carefully facilitated in consultation with traditional leadership structures and
influential figures to ensure that the NSP does not ignite conflict or further exacerbate existing
tensions within communities.

Recruitment of local staff: Recruitment of staff from NSP districts contributed to the strong
sense of ownership of the program and provided a significant measure of protection for the
program and staff, but recruitment remains difficult due to a shortage of sufficiently qualified
candidates, particularly women.

Gender: The NSP 1 provided surprisingly strong results for women's participation ­ where
allowed to participate, women comprised more than 50% of voters in CDC elections. Revision of
gender policies in 2005 resulted in the introduction of new structures for the CDCs, requiring the
election of male and female committees for a single CDC wherever possible, and contributing to
further increases in women's participation. Although women's involvement in the NSP is still
problematic - women elected to mixed CDCs or women's committees are not always able to
effectively participate in decision-making - the new policy has enabled a critical mass of women
to become members of the decision-making bodies. In addition, women's direct implementation
of projects has provided them with valuable practical skills and experience.

The effective involvement of women in the program is limited by budgetary constraints. FP
budgets have not increased since the commencement of the program although, in the NSP 2, FPs
will be expanding to more remote and insecure areas, resulting in higher costs for transport and
other inputs. Despite the necessity of retaining female staff to ensure women's effective
participation in the program, higher costs associated with recruiting women in Afghanistan (e.g.
maharam salaries and higher travel costs) mean that female staff may be reduced due to limited
budgets. Greater recruitment of women by the MRRD/NSP and FPs would provide a valuable
model for communities and increase the potential for women's effective engagement in the CDCs,
but specific policies may need to be adopted to ensure increased recruitment of female staff.

Many FPs would recommend the re-introduction of a specific budget (or portion of the block
grant) for women's projects. Although this caused confusion for implementation in the past,
there is general agreement on the tangible direct benefits of specific women's projects
implemented to date.

The changing status of CDCs: The status of CDCs has been elevated as the program progressed
and the implementation of block grant projects has delivered tangible benefits to communities. As
a result, new CDC members commonly have higher status within the communities and more
education than previously.

Security: Implementing the program in high risk areas required more innovative approaches by
FPs, such as remote operations with limited physical monitoring of projects and reliance on
alternative evidence (such as photographs) of work completed.         However, such operational
models may reduce the quality of program facilitation with subsequent negative impacts on
governance outcomes. In addition, reduced contact by FPs necessarily limits project selection as
communities lack the capacity to design or implement complex technical projects (such as Micro-
hydro power) without intensive monitoring.




                                                46

Proposed arrangements for future operations of the project
At the national level, MRRD is progressively taking greater responsibility for overall program
management but this transition needs to be carefully managed to ensure the effective transfer of
knowledge and capacity to local staff.

Due to World Bank restrictions on the overall NSP 2 budget, facilitation of the program will be
limited to a two-year period for all new communities, despite evidence that this is insufficient.
Continuing limitations on FP budgets are also problematic as quality facilitation requires an
intense engagement with communities.              FPs have repeatedly stressed the need for greater
flexibility in the allocation of budgets to recognize the higher costs required to facilitate the
program in remote or high-risk areas, but the MRRD/NSP continues to apply a rigid cap on FP
costs regardless of location or other factors.

The planned expansion of the NSP to all remaining communities in the southern provinces will be
extremely difficult with the current operational model. In order to achieve full coverage of the
southern provinces, the MRRD/NSP, World Bank,and FPs should again consult and agree
alternative models of program delivery to ensure coverage can be met. It should also be noted
that consultation on future priorities for the program would be strengthened through effective
consultation with all stakeholders, with FPs particularly concerned that full coverage become a
priority for all rural districts, not just those in the southern provinces.

Proposed arrangements for the sustainability of the major outcomes of the project
As of 31st March 2007, the proposed arrangements for ongoing support to the CDCs are
inadequate to ensure their sustainability. The NSP Transition Strategy outlines how FPs will
cease facilitation at the end of their current contracts, although 80% of the original CDCs have
not fully utilized their block grant entitlements after three years of support. After the withdrawal
of the FPs, the MRRD/NSP will provide limited support (not including technical design or
training) to CDCs to complete their block grant entitlements. Although not satisfactory for the
sustainability of CDCs, the strategy was developed due to communication from the World Bank
that no additional funding could be provided for longer facilitation periods with communities. For
all new communities to be covered in the NSP 2, facilitation will be limited to a two-year period
despite evidence that the majority of CDCs will be unable to complete their block grant
entitlements in that period.

The most effective method to contribute to CDC sustainability would be ongoing financial and
capacity-building support, and agreed mechanisms for coordination with other donors (both
government and non-government). To date, MRRD/NSP and FPs are the main development
actors that recognize and support the CDCs, while all other ministries' engagement at the district
level is through traditional shura, which undermines the credibility and effective functioning of
the CDCs. As the sustainability of CDCs relies on their recognition by and genuine engagement
with other government actors, the support of the NSP Steering Committee should be translated
into agreed practical mechanisms for coordination at the provincial, district and community level.
In addition, there needs to be established mechanisms for CDC's engagement in development
planning and implementation at the district level and provincial levels. More effective
coordination with the MRRD implemented National Area Based Development Program is
necessary to ensure that the process incorporates existing CDCs and enhances the introduction of
the NSP in areas where it has not yet reached.




                                                     47

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Emergency National Solidarity Project:

Afghanistan Emergency National Solidarity Project - Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant of
SDR66.1 million (US$95 million equivalent), Report No: T7609-AF, November 26, 2003.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Grant of SDR66.1 million (US$95 million
equivalent) to Afghanistan for an Emergency National Solidarity Project, Report No: P7609-AF,
November 26, 2003.

Development Grant Agreement (Emergency National Solidarity Project) between Afghanistan
and International Development Association, Grant No: H072-AF, January 20, 2004.

Afghanistan Second Emergency National Solidarity Program - Technical Annex, Report No:
T7683 ­ AF, November 10, 2006.

Supervision mission Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.

NSP Program Reports (Monthly and Quarterly), MRRD.

Afghanistan: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework, 2002.

Operational Manual for National Solidarity Program, June 15, 2003 (revised December 2003 and
December 2004).

The Expansion of the National Solidarity Program: Empowering Communities to Deliver the I-
ANDS Benchmarks, MRRD, May 2006

Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project:

Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant of SDR33.7 million (US$42.0 million equivalent) to
Afghanistan for an Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project, Report No:
T7535-AF, May 13, 2002.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Grant of SDR33.7 million (US$42.0
million equivalent) to Afghanistan for an Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works
Project, Report No: P7535-AF, May 13, 2002.

Development Grant Agreement (Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project)
between Afghanistan and International Development Association, Grant No: H009-AF, June 8,
2002.

Implementation Completion Report for the Emergency Community Empowerment & Public
Works Project, Report No:33120-AF, July 17, 2005.




                                               48

Other documents:

Interim Strategy Note for the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the Period FY 07-FY 08, World
Bank, 2006.

Assessment of Microfinance and Income Generating Schemes as an Option for Community Sub-
Projects under the Emergency National Solidarity Project. Kabul, NSP, January 2004.

Assessment of NSP Facilitating Partners: Common Final Report (including appendices on
Lessons Learned and Key Recommendations), Altai Consulting, Kabul, August 2004.

Mid-term Evaluation of the National Solidarity Program, May 2006 (Final Draft Report, pp 337)
by the Post-War Reconstruction & Development Unit, University of York.

From Subjects to Citizens: Local Participation in the National Solidarity Program.
Afghanistan Research & Evaluation Unit (AREU) Working Papers, Kabul, August 2004, by Inger
Boesen.

Afghanistan Poverty, Vulnerability and Social Protection: An Initial Assessment, WB Report No.
29694-AF, March 7, 2005).

Fine-tuning the NSP: Discussions of problems and solutions with Facilitating Partners, AREU
Working Papers, Kabul, November 2005, by Palwasha Kakar.

Breaking Point ­ Measuring Progress in Afghanistan, Center for Strategic and International
Studies, Washington DC, February 23, 2007.

The Role of Culture, Islam and Tradition in Community Driven reconstruction ­ A Study on the
International Rescue Committee's Approach to NSP by Kimberly A. Maynard, IRC, March 2007.

Assessing the NSP: The Role of Accountability in Reconstruction by Yama Torabi, Integrity
Watch for Afghanistan, 2007 (www.tiri.org)

Aiding the State? International Assistance and the Statebuilding Paradox in Afghanistan. AREU
Briefing Papers, April 2007, by Hamish Nixon

Lessons in Terror. Attacks on Education in Afghanistan. Human Rights Watch report (vol. 18,
Number 6 C):

"The Future of CDCs", Declaration of CDC Members from 33 Provinces in Afghanistan. Herat
Solidarity Exchange, 9-12 May, 2005.

Afghanistan ­ Assessment of the scope for strengthening the role of NSP Community
Development Councils in local governance. Report for the World Bank TA on Public
Administration Reform, June 2007, by Asta Olesen & Asger Christensen.

Afghanistan: NSP Assessment of District School Construction and Rehabilitation Window.
Report for the World Bank, September 2007, by Sippi Azerbaijani-Moghaddam




                                               49

