Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H209-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Emergency National Solidarity Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 24, 2006 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
IDA GRANT NUMBER H209-AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated April 24, 2006, entered into between ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (“the Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“the Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty seven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 27,700,000) (
“the Grant”) to assist in financing the Original Project. 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Original Project.  
To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Original Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Kabul,  
Afghanistan 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen community level governance in 
Afghanistan and to assist in reconstruction and development of rural communities by 
supporting certain components of the Recipient’s National Solidarity Program. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement is incorporated in this 
Agreement. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I 
and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  Shopping 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
(c)  Community Participation 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  9
-
7
-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consult
ants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
 
(b) Single Source Selection   
(c) Individual Consultants 
(d) Quality Based Selection 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; 
(b) the first three (3) contracts for goods awarded on the basis of Shopping;  
(c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (d) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1)  Block Grants  
16,900,000 
100% 
(2)  Goods 
350,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants
’
services 
including audits for Parts 
A, B and C of the Project, 
and training 
10,370,000 100% 
(4) Consultants’ services  
including audit for Part D 
of the Project  
-
100%
(5) Incremental operating costs 
80,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
27,700,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Period.   
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2007. 
Page  11
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
Unless otherwise defined here, all definitions set out in Section 1.02 of the Original 
Financing Agreement are incorporated in this Agreement. 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
the Original Financing Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement for an 
Emergency National Solidarity Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated January 20, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Grant No H072-AF). 
5. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
6. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004.
 
