                                                                                                             97765
Afghanistan: Country Results Profile                                                                    April 13, 2011




 Afghanistan: Supporting State-building and Development


Overview
Afghanistan has made remarkable progress in many areas. Important development results
have been achieved in areas such as health, education, microfinance, irrigation and rural
livelihoods, as well as in progressive improvements in public financial management. The results
achieved to date reflect the massive support of the international community to help rebuild
Afghanistan and the efforts and ingenuity of many enterprising Afghans who continue to deliver
services in challenging circumstances.

  Full Brief—4 Pages
Supporting State-building and Development—PDF, Mar 2011


Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
In late 2001, after the fall of the Taliban and       Afghanistan National Solidarity Program
almost three decades of conflict, Afghanistan
faced a daunting set of challenges. From this
dire state, very significant progress has been
made. By 2010, the Government of Afghanistan initiated the         More Results
Kabul Process, which aims to support full Afghan leadership
and responsibility for the development of Afghanistan over
the coming years. The Afghan Government has initiated 23

                                                                       19m
National Priority Programs (NPPs) covering such areas as
governance, service delivery and infrastructure. The
government asked donors to align their programs with the
                                                                   people empowered by
NPPs to coordinate and target development efforts in               Community Development
support of principles of aid effectiveness.                        Councils (CDC)


Approach
After more than 20 years of disengagement during years of
conflict, IDA is playing a key role in supporting the Afghan
people. IDA programs are aligned with and in support of the
                                                                       1,251km
                                                                       of district and village roads
National Priority Programs, identified by the Afghan                   constructed
Government as key to the development of Afghanistan and
the transition process. IDA’s strategy is centered on three
key components: (i) building the capacity of the state and its
                                                                       MORE INFORMATION
accountability to its citizens; (ii) promoting growth of the rural
economy and improving rural livelihoods; and (iii) supporting           Ending Centuries of Isolation
growth of the private sector. Since April 2002, IDA has                 Economic Update
committed over US$2.1 billion for 41 development and
emergency reconstruction projects and four budget support               Mining for Sustainable Growth
operations through both grants and no-interest loans known              Reviving Rural Enterprise
as “credits.” As of February 28, 2011, IDA is financing 30
                                                                       Country Website
active projects in Afghanistan with net commitments of over
US$900 million. The World Bank also administers two trust
funds: i) the Afghanistan window of the Japan Social
Development Fund (JSDF); and ii) the Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF).

Results
Successive IDA financing of US$16 million, US$45 million, and US$20 provided vital flood
control structures in the city of Taiz and its surrounding areas. By the closing of the second
phase in June 2008, major parts of Taiz city, including downtown Taiz, were transformed into
livable and flash flood-secure neighborhoods and the impact of the projects on the lives and
livelihoods of the people in these areas is substantial. The structures built under these
successive phases include:


▪▪ Community Empowerment efforts reaching 19 million people in all of the country’s 34
provinces. As of March 4, 2011, approximately 26,623 communities have been mobilized, and
26,311 communities have successfully elected Community Development Councils (CDCs). A
total of 45,220 sub-projects have been completed to date.
▪▪ The National Emergency Rural Access Project (NERAP) is working to provide year-round
access to the rural areas. Since 2007, over 1,251 km of district and village roads and more
than 9,000 meters of cross drainage structures have been completed.
▪▪ Since 2003, 762 medium and large-size traditional irrigation schemes serving more than
687,000 ha of land in various parts of the country were rehabilitated. An additional 138,000 ha
of land are now receiving irrigation, and crop yields have increased substantially.
▪▪ Introduced for the first time in 2003, microfinance has spread swiftly to fill a huge gap in
financial services created by the small and limited outreach of the banking sector. To date, the
project has provided more than US$168 million in funds. There are now 14 microfinance
institutions (MFIs), with a network of 294 branches in 26 provinces, and more than 429,989
clients. Sixty percent of the clients are women and 30 percent of the businesses are run by
women.
▪▪ Under the Horticulture Component of the Horticulture and Livestock Project, over 2,700 ha of
new orchards (grapes, apricots, almonds, and pomegranates) have been planted so far, and
over 600 women have participated in the program.
Voices


     Most people in our village depend on agriculture in some way
   or other. So, to stand on our own feet, it was essential for us to
   boost our agricultural produce as much as we could
                                                 — Haji Abdul Qahar, Farmer

Partners
The ARTF is a partnership between the international community and the Afghan government
for the improved effectiveness of the reconstruction effort. Since early 2002, 32 donors have
contributed over US$4.1 billion, making the ARTF the largest contributor to the Afghan budget
– for both operating costs and development programs.

Toward the Future
Afghanistan’s achievements in the last ten years have been impressive in many ways. The
coming years will be critical to strengthening Afghan institutions’ ability to deliver basic services
nationally and consolidate and expand the economic development gains made to date. IDA’s
role during this period—beyond the provision of its own resources—must be to continue to
make the case for these principles, and to help the government effectively prioritize and utilize
its own resources.
