                                                            97767 April 13, 2011
National Solidarity Project: Promoting Community-Based Development in Afghanistan




 Afghanistan National Solidarity Project: Promoting Community-Based
 Development


Overview
A quarter century of war and civil strife in Afghanistan seriously damaged rural infrastructure
and fractured local communities. The National Solidarity Program (NSP), a community-driven
reconstruction and rural infrastructure development program, has made significant
achievements in empowering communities, improving community relations, and increasing
public faith in the system of government.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
During a post-conflict phase, in which rapid
delivery of a "peace dividend" is critical to
establish or maintain the credibility of the new
government, the challenge is to:

- Generate employment and rehabilitate
infrastructure in rural areas devastated by
severe drought and over two decades of conflict;
and

- Strengthen local governance to foster rule of
law.                                                  MORE
                                                         Rebuilding Afghanistan: One Village at a Time
Approach                                                 Afghanistan National Solidarity Program
The National Solidarity Program (NSP) is a
massive effort by the government to reach rural
communities across Afghanistan and address their needs
using participatory approaches. Implemented by the Ministry           More Results
of Rural Rehabilitation and Development, through an
extensive network of facilitating partner organizations (mostly
nongovernmental organizations), the NSP was originally a
component of the International Development Association
(IDA)-financed Emergency Community Empowerment and
Public Works Project launched in 2002. The program then
                                                                      45,108
                                                                      projects successfully completed
became a national priority program under Afghanistan's
development framework and has grown into the
government's flagship rural development program. Elected
village-level Community Development Councils (CDCs), in
which women play a key role, reach consensus on
development priorities, develop investment proposals, and
                                                                      515
                                                                      new schools constructed
use grants and local labor to implement priority subprojects
to meet local needs.

                                                                MORE INFORMATION
Results
                                                                  Ending Centuries of Isolation
The NSP has established 26,395 CDCs in 34 provinces of
Afghanistan, covering a rural population of about 22 million.     Economic Update 2010
So far, approximately 24,862 communities received financing       Mining for Sustainable Growth
to implement their priority subprojects.
                                                                  Reviving Rural Enterprise

-About 55,050 subprojects were financed, and so far, 45,108         NSP Website
subprojects were successfully completed in different sectors.
-About 23,205 kilometers of tertiary and 640 kilometers of
secondary roads were constructed/rehabilitated.
-Approximately 39,343 kilowatts (KW) of electricity was
produced through the completion of micro hydro and solar
power energy.
-The NSP has installed 2,074 hand pumps so far.
-In the education sector, 331 primary schools, 143 secondary schools and 41 high schools
were constructed.
-Thirty-four clinic buildings and one pharmacy building were constructed in the health sector
and health education has been provided to the beneficiaries.
-The implementation of subprojects in various sectors has generated 27 million labor days.
Women played a crucial role in successful implementation of the NSP. They have been
involved in all NSP processes from mobilization to completion of their community subproject.
Approximately 38 percent of CDC members are women and they participated in identification
and prioritization of their community problems and subprojects together with men. They conduct
the meetings and take an active part in implementation of the subprojects. Women are
members of community participatory monitoring to assess the progress and achievements of
their subprojects.
Voices


     We have a school in the village for both boys and girls, our
   homes have electricity, and there is no shortage of clean drinking
   water. All the children attend classes regularly, especially those
   who couldn’t go to school earlier because of the distance.
                                                       — Mohammad Yousuf

Bank Contribution
The NSP was envisioned by the new Afghan leadership after the fall of the Taliban. To help
put it into action, IDA drew on its experience designing successful Community-Driven
Development (CDD) projects elsewhere, such as the Kecamatan program in Indonesia. As of
September 2010, the NSP contributions by all donors were approximately US$1.5 billion.
An initial IDA grant (under the IDA Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works
Project) funded a US$27 million community empowerment component that paved the way for
the NSP. By September 2010, IDA support to the NSP had reached US$436 million. The Bank
also administered the Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) amounting to US$42 million
and the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCRTF) of US$8 million.

Partners
The NSP is also supported by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), which is
administered by the World Bank. The ARTF is a partnership between the international
community and the Afghan government for the improved effectiveness of the reconstruction
effort. Since early 2002, 32 donors have contributed over US$4 billion (as of November 21,
2010), making the ARTF the largest contributor to the Afghan budget – for both operating
costs and development programs. The ARTF’s support for national priority programs, for
operating costs of government operations, and for the policy reform agenda is contributing to
the achievement of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy goals. As of September
2010, the ARTF had disbursed US$940 million to support the NSP implementation. In addition,
the bilateral donors’ funding to the NSP amounted to US$100 million.
The ARTF is managed by a Management Committee consisting of the World Bank (as the
administrator), the Islamic Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the United
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the United Nations Development
Programme. The Management Committee meets regularly in Kabul, with the Ministry of
Finance as an observer, to carry out the day-to-day business of the fund. Once a quarter,
ARTF donors meet to discuss broader strategy with the government and ARTF management.

Toward the Future
Over the next five years, the NSP aims to roll out to the remaining 15,800 communities to
reach national coverage. This expansion is an increase from the original estimate of 10,300
new communities and it poses a challenge since approximately half of these communities
(about 7,100) are in high or extremely insecure areas. The program will also need a significant
amount of additional financing to achieve the envisaged full national coverage. So far, over
18,400 communities have fully utilized their first round of NSP block grants (with subprojects
that are at least 85 percent complete). But, the NSP will provide second block grants to only
11,900 communities, because of the budget constraint; limited technical, administrative and
procurement capacity; and increasing insecurity incidences. It will be important for the
Government of Afghanistan to continue engaging these communities to avoid eroding the trust
built through the NSP thus far. Apart from financing rural social infrastructure, the third phase
of the NSP is focusing on institutional strengthening, through transformation of the CDCs into
legally recognized Village Councils, as the lowest level of governance.
