Report No. PIC4883
Project Title                    Indonesia-Quality of Undergraduate ...
Education (QUE)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Higher Education
Project ID                       ID-PA-40195
Implementing Agency              Directorate General of Higher
Education (DGHE), Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC)
Projected Appraisal Date        17 March, 1997
Projected Board Date            17 June, 1997
Project Objectives:      The project has two objectives: (a) to
improve the quality of undergraduate study programs in national
priority fields of study; and (b) to improve the relevance of
undergraduate study programs. Achieving these two objectives would
be expected to lead to increased earnings for graduates from the
selected study programs.
Project Description:     The project is a complementary operation to
the Development of Undergraduate Education (DUE) project and it is
intended to (a) introduce competitive funding mechanisms at the
undergraduate program level in fields of national priority at
public and private universities and (b) provide centrally allocated
and performance-based support to twelve established Discipline
Service Centers (DSCs). The DSCs are university libraries
designated to serve the national academic community as an
information provider on a specific discipline. The twelve DSCs
cover the following disciplines: Basic Sciences, Social Sciences
and Economics, Education, Law, Letters, Computer Sciences,
Agriculture, Biology, Engineering, Medical Science, Marine Science,
and Arts and Humanities. The twelve DSCs are located at eight
public universities
Project Implementation: The project would be implemented over about
six years. The Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) under
the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) will have overall
responsibility for overseeing project implementation. The DGHE will
be supported in its functions by the Secretariat of the Board of
Higher Education (BHE) and the Central Project Coordination Unit
(CPCU). The CPCU of the proposed QUE project will be integrated
into the existing CPCU of the DUE project, as the sharing of
resources and functions across the two bodies would enhance
efficiency and avoid duplication of activities among the CPCUs. The
combined DUE/QUE CPCU will report to the Assistant Secretary for
Education of the BHE Secretariat. The CPCU will consist of a
Director, a financial officer, a procurement officer and support
staff. The CPCU will also be responsible for providing training and
technical assistance to the Heads of Departments and/or Deans of
beneficiary study programs and their staff as well as for overall
coordination of project activities through monitoring and
supervision. The overall management of project implementation at



the beneficiary study programs will be the responsibility of the
Head of Departments and/or Deans of the respective faculty.
Project Costs and Financing: The total project cost is estimated at
US$98.8 million equivalent, including physical and price
contingencies, of which the Bank is expected to finance US$68.3
million, while the Government would finance from its annual budget
the remaining costs of US$30.5 million equivalent including taxes
Environmental Aspects: The project is expected to have an overall
positive impact on the environmental concerns through upgraded
capacity of study programs in basic sciences and engineering,
including the environmental sciences.
Contact Point    Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5454
Fax: 202-522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final product.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 28, 1997.
- 2 -



