Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16575-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$71.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
May 21, 1997
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQIJIVALENTS
(as of March 1997)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Unit$1.00 = Rp2,33I
Rp 1 million = IJSS429
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAN                   National Board of Accreditation
BAPPENAS              National Development Planning Agency
BHE                   Board of Higher Education
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CPCU                  Central Project Coordinating Unit
DGHE                  Directorate General of Higher Education
DSCs                  Discipline Service Centers
DUE                   Development of Undergraduate Education Project
HEDP I                Hligher Education Development I Project
HEDP II               Higher Eiducation Development II Project
MOEC                  Ministry of Education and Culture
Si                    Degree equivalent to Bachelor's Degree
S2                    Degree equivalent to Master's Degree
S3                    Degree equivalent to Ph.D. Degree
SOE                   Statement of Expenditure
UMPTN                 National University Entrance Examination
URGE                  University Research for Graduate Education
Vice President           Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Acting Director          Samuel Lieberman, EA3
Division Chief           Samuel Lieberman, EA3PH
Task Manager             John Newman, EA3PH



INDONESIA
QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Project Financing Data ..................................................1
Block 1: Project Description ..................................................2
1. Project development objectives ...................................................2
2. Project components ..................................................2
3. Benefits and target population   ...........3......................................3
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements  ..........................................3.......3
Block 2: Project Rationale  ...................................................7
5. CAS objectives supported by the project  ....................                        ..............................7
6. Main sector issues and Government Strategy   ..................................                     ................7
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ........................... 10
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................... 11
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies 12
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ..............................................   12
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................... 14
12. Value added of Bank support ...............................................                                       15
Block 3: Summary of Project Assessments .................................................                                   15
13. Economic Assessment  ................................................. 15
14. Financial Assessment .................................................                                            15
15. Technical Assessment .................................................                                            16
16. Institutional Assessment  ................................................. 16
17. Social Assessment  ................................................. 16
18. Environmental Assessment .................................................                                        16
19. Participatory Approach .................................................                                          16
20. Sustainability .................................................                                                   17
21. Critical Risks  ................................................. 17
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................                                   18
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions .................................................                                             18
23. Effectiveness Condition .................................................                                         18
24. Other .................................................                                                            18
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................                                   20
Annexes and Map
Annex 1: Project Design Summary  .................................................                                   21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .................................................                              29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .................................................                                   31



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ......................................                           32
Annex 5: Financial Summary ......................................                                       36
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ......................................                37
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule ......................................                 44
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File ......................................                          45
Annex 9: Indonesia at a Glance ......................................                                  46
Annexl O: Status of Bank Group Operation in Indonesia                    .        ................................ 48
Annex 11: Summary Cost Tables  ...............                    ....................... 52
IBRD MAP No. 28790



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Department III
Project Appraisal Document
Indonesia
Quality of Undergraduate Education Project (QUE)
Date:May 21, 1997                                                                    [ ] Draft          [X] Final
Task Manager: John Newman                                       Division Chief: Samuel Lieberman
Project ID: ID-PE-40195                                         Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: SIL                                         PTI:          [ ]  Yes             [   No
Project Financing Data                        [X] Loan         []   Credit        [   Guarantee    [    Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$71.2 million
~~~~~~~...................................... ............................ ............  ............ ........................................ ........ ........... ................................. ..................................................  ..............................................................
Proposed Terms:                                 []    Multicurrency         X    Single currency
Grace period (years): 3                   []    Standard Variable   X    Fixed                 []     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m): 109.1 million
Source                                                                 Local                 Foreign               Total
Government                                                             37.9                     0.0                 37.9
IBRD/IDA                                                               61.7                     9.5                 71.2
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Directorate of Higher Education, Ministry of Education and Culture
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):   1998               1999       2000         2001       2002        2003
Annual 6.0           10.0       16.0         15.0        15.0        9.2
Cumulative  6.0          16.0       32.0         47.0        62.0       71.2
Expected effectiveness date: 09/17/97                                         Closing date: 03/31/04



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 2
Country: Indonesia                                                    Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
The project has two objectives: (a) to improve the quality of undergraduate study programs in national priority fields;
and (b) to promote a more cost-effective allocation of public funds by directing resources to high priority fields at both
public and private universities. The specific academic programs to be supported will be determined through a
competitive process. The recipient academic programs would utilize block grant funds to implement self-designed
development plans aimed at improving educational quality.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description, Annex 3 for estimated project cost breakdown, and
Annex 11 for summary cost tables):
Componen                           Category           Cost Incl.         % of Total
Contingencies (USSM)
Improving Quality through Competitive Grants to      Institution        95.9 million            87.9
Undergraduate Study Programs in public and            Building
private universities: Eligible expenditure categories
for the grants include: staff development, equipment,
civil works for rehabilitation of existing facilities,
technical assistance, library materials, curricula
development, and project management. This component
will also support the BHE in activities related to
appraisal of the proposals, and will fund workshops to
assist the academic programs in proposal preparation.
Institution        10.0 million           9.2
Improve Discipline Service Centers through Direct     Building
Investment and Performance-Based Awards: This
component will establish the capacity of already
existing Discipline Service Centers (DSCs) to deliver
on-line services through direct investment for the
provision of hardware connections, establishment and
maintenance of web sites, and provision of related
software. This component will also finance the
provision of relevant books and journals to the DSCs,
and fund technical assistance to strengthen the capacity
of the BHE to carry out appraisal of DSC grant
proposals. The competitive grants to selected DSCs will
finance specific research and integrate DSC materials
into classroom and research activities.
Support to CPCU: This component will finance the       Project           3.2 million            2.9
Central Project Coordinating Unit, which is responsible    Management
for monitoring and assisting the deans/heads of target
programs in implementing their respective projects and
for collecting and analyzing data from these programs.
Total                                                                   109.1million            100
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 3
Country: Indonesia                                                          Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
3. Benefits and target population:
Target population.:
*  Students in selected disciplines in departments and faculties of public universities;
*  Students in selected disciplines in departments and faculties of private universities; and
*  Faculty and administrative staff at participating universities.
Project Benefits: The project will benefit the economy at large by providing a pool of better trained graduates in fields
of national priority, thereby making a useful contribution to the rapid industrialization process. In addition, the economy
will benefit from a more cost-effective use of government financing through support for study programs in priority fields
at private universities, which will offset the lack of private sector financing. At the level of recipient departments and
study programs, the project will improve planning and management and will increase accountability in the use of funds.
Benefits realized from this project will accrue to: (a) the study programs which receive the grants and the home
university, which will have higher quality programs and attract more and better students and faculty; (b) the study
programs which competed for the grants but lost, since the competitive process involved evaluating their programs,
identifying weaknesses, and proposing solutions-some of which they can begin to implement even without the grant;
(c) the students who receive their degrees from those study programs selected; and (d) others in the workforce, since the
presence of some higher quality workers could increase the productivity of others through spillover effects.
Distribution of Benefits: For any given field identified as high priority by GOI, the project can be expected to benefit
women or the poor who are already in that field or will enter the field. By focusing on quality and subjecting academic
programs to competition, those academic institutions that might discriminate could conceivably lose. For example, an
institution willing to hire a better quality woman should be able to produce a better product and have more chance of
winning grants. An institution that would deny admission to a better qualified female student in favor of a less capable
male would be expected to have a lower quality student body. However, the competitive pressure that would generate
these benefits requires that there be no barriers to entry of women into the disciplines favored under the program.
Currently, women are somewhat less likely to go on to the next level of education, and considerably less likely to go on
in science and engineering. And the poor tend to drop out of the educational system at the junior and senior secondary
levels. To improve the situation will require greater efforts at lower levels of education. This is recognized in the overall
education strategy and is being addressed in other education projects in the portfolio.
..     ..............................................................................................................I.....................................................................................................................I................
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Six years.
Executing agencies: The Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) in the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC) will have overall responsibility for overseeing project implementation. The DGHE will be supported in its
functions by the Board of Higher Education (BHE), which will monitor and evaluate project implementation, oversee
selection of study programs in the second round, and carry out necessary studies in the project; and by the Central Project
Coordinating Unit (CPCU), which will be responsible for carrying out procurement and disbursement activities at the
central level, as well as for monitoring and supervising procurement and disbursement at the level of the individual study
programs.
Project coordination: The CPCU of the Quality of Undergraduate Education (QUE) project will be integrated into the
existing CPCU of the Bank's Development of Undergraduate Education (DUE) project. The sharing of resources and
functions across the two bodies will enhance efficiency and prevent duplication of activities across the CPCUs. In
particular, functions where economies are likely to be realized, such as the management of fellowships and the
administration of procurement, could benefit from consolidation.
The organizational structure for the consolidated DUE/QUE administration can be found in the Project Implementation
Plan. During preappraisal the Ministry of Finance and BAPPENAS agreed to the consolidation proposal. The combined
DUE/QUE CPCU will report to the Assistant Secretary for Education of the BHE. The CPCU will consist of a Director,
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 4
Country: Indonesia                                                     Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
a financial officer, a procurement officer, and support staff. The CPCU will also be responsible for providing training
and technical assistance to the department heads and/or deans within the beneficiary study programs and for overall
coordination of project activities through monitoring and supervision.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.). The project has financed study tours for GOI officials involved in project
preparation so that implementation can benefit from relevant international experience. A study tour to Australia was
conducted in January 1997 to review grant selection, award, and implementation procedures. The study tour, funded
through the Japan Grant Fund (JGF) consisted of discussions with the Australian Research Council (ARC) and grant
beneficiaries. A second study tour to review experience in the United Kingdom and in the USA, also funded through the
JGF, was conducted in May 1997. The study tour in the USA was coordinated through the National Science Foundation
(NSF).
Project Implementation Plan: A revised draft of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was provided to the Bank Team
during appraisal and was found to be satisfactory. A computerized version of the PIP has also been prepared and was
presented to the Bank for comments. The computerized PIP covers two main aspects. First, it addresses the
information needs of academic programs that are potential participants in the competition, by providing on-line
information on subjects such as eligibility criteria, guidelines for preproposal and proposal preparation, and timing of the
various stages of the competitive process. Such information has been placed on a web site (http://que.ui.ac.id) to make
it accessible to all public and private universities. Second, a computerized project manual targeted exclusively to the
winning academic programs and the CPCU is being developed in Lotus Notes, in accordance with GOI and Bank rules
and in close coordination with the Resident Mission. The computerized project manual will simplify matters related to
procurement and disbursement, since the beneficiaries will be able to access and complete standard documents, which
can then be transmitted directly to the Resident Mission in Jakarta or to the Bank's headquarters as needed.
Selection process. A total of 45 study programs will be selected to receive grant awards. The selection will take place
during three rounds of competition, with 15 awardees in each batch. Implementation of the development plans of the
winning study programs in the first and second rounds of competition will be carried out over a five-year period, while
the plans of programs receiving grants in the third round will be implemented over four years. The selection will be
carried out independentlv by the BHE, with merit as the major criterion. Only accredited programs will be eligible to
receive grant awards. Therefore, participating study programs which have not been through the accreditation process at
the time of the final evaluation will have to be evaluated by the BAN in order to win the award. To accommodate this
requirement, a special evaluation process will be arranged through close collaboration with the BAN. Participating study
programs under each of the three rounds of competition will have to submit a preproposal prepared on the basis of self-
evaluation and containing a preliminary development plan. Those study programs which are successful at the preproposal
stage will be invited to submit a full proposal. Both the preproposal and the proposal will have to be in English and
comply with the guidelines issued by the BHE. Further, the selection might involve both domestic experts and
international reviewers. The final decision of beneficiaries will be made after site visits by BHE staff to the study
programs.
The selection process for the first batch of recipient study programs is currently ongoing. On January 18, 1997, the
deadline for submitting preproposals, 317 preproposals were received by the BHE's Education Council. The first stage of
the selection process was carried out from 28 January to 28 February, 1997, by a team of 45 experts recruited as
reviewers from various public universities. To ensure fairness in the selection process, experts were not allowed to
review preproposals submitted by their home universities, and a team of international experts recruited by the Bank
audited the selection process conducted by the Education Council. An invitation to submit full proposals was extended
to 45 study programs; the deadline for submitting full proposals was 23 May, 1997. Desk evaluation of the full proposals
will be completed by 16 June, 1997, site visits to the top ranked 20 proposing study programs will take place until mid-
July, 1997, and the final announcement of the 15 winning study programs under the first round of competition will be
made in August 1997.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 5
Country: Indonesia                                                     Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Assistance to academic programs in proposals preparation and grant implementation: All public and private
universities intending to participate in the second and third rounds of competition will be invited to attend workshops on
proposal preparation, which will be held at various location throughout the country. The project will meet the
organizational costs of these workshops, but will not pay for expenses incurred by participants. In addition, workshops
on grant implementation will be conducted for institutions invited to submit full proposals in the second and third rounds
of competition. The costs of organizing such workshops and expenses incurred by participants will be met by the project.
Categories of funding: Under the study program component, each institution participating in the competitive process
will be free to propose how best to allocate funds across the eligible categories. The eligible categories are: (a) Staff
Development, which includes overseas and domestic degree programs and domestic nondegree programs, such as short
courses for technicians, teaching methodology training, management training, etc.; (b) Equipment, to include repairing
and upgrading current equipment and procuring new equipment for existing facilities; (c) Civil Works, to support the
expansion, renovation, and upgrading of existing buildings (funding for the construction of new buildings is ineligible);
(d) Technical Assistance, to fund overseas and domestic technical assistance in the areas of management, planning,
curriculum development, and other academic activities which support quality improvement in SI education; (e) Library,
which entails limited support through the provision of textbooks; (f) Grants to Teaching Stafffor Development of New
Courses; and (g) Grantsfor Faculty to Supervise Students' Projects and Skripsi (Undergraduate Thesis).
Under the Discipline Service Centers component, the eligible categories under the first stage of support through direct
allocation are: (a) web servers, modem pool networking facilities, software; (b) technical assistance; and c) additional
books and journals. During the second phase of support, block grants to the DSCs will finance specific research,
education, and technical support subprojects, including the integration of DSC materials into coursework and its services
into academic research.
Technical assistance: Overseas and domestic technical assistance can be proposed to : (a) improve university
management; (b) assist planning and strategy development; (c) assist curriculum development; (d) conduct evaluation as
external examiners; and (e) support other academic activities that would directly benefit S-l education. It is expected
that the proposals to undertake these activities will not exceed US$50,000. All consultancies to be conducted under the
grants will be contracted under paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, which apply to the selection of consultants on the basis of quality
and costs.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements: The MOEC will establish separate project accounts for all
project expenditures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and documentation
supporting the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) and Special Account are to be maintained separately by Directorate
General of Budget, Ministry of Finance (MOF). The CPCU will prepare a consolidated financial statement covering all
project expenditures. The financial statement will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report will contain a separate opinion by the auditors on the Statement of Expenditures used as a basis for disbursement.
Certified copies of the financial statement on the project for each Government fiscal year, together with the auditors'
statement, will be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that the project accounts, including the Special Account
and SOEs, will be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; the audit reports will be furnished
to the Bank within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
TechnicalAudits: To ensure accountability to the Government, the Bank, the academic community, and the public, three
technical audits of the various project components will be carried out in a manner acceptable to the Bank by 31 July,
1998, 31 July, 2000 and 31 July, 2002. The goal of the technical audit is to provide an independent and impartial
assessment of the quality and adequacy of procedures and processes employed by the BHE Secretariat, the target study
programs and faculties, and the Discipline Service Centers under the project. The technical audit will repeat the process
used in evaluating the first batch of academic programs invited to submit full proposals. The audit team will comprise
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 6
Country: Indonesia                                                      Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
international experts who will review, for both the second and third rounds of competition, a sample of winning
proposals and a sample of those which did not succeed, and will conduct site visits to the winning programs. The audit
will further evaluate selection documentation and award procedures for both the study programs and the Discipline
Service Centers. For each award, the team will evaluate the appropriateness, efficiency, and adequacy of procurement
procedures and documentation, as well as expenditures and the adequacy of the beneficiaries' budgets. A draft of the
technical audit will be submitted to the Project Coordination Unit for review and comments not later than five months
after commencement of the project, and a final report not later than six months after commencement. Terms of
Reference for the technical audits can be found in the Project Implementation Plan.
Performance indicators: A set of specifically developed indicators will be used to measure the impact of individual
grants at the level of each beneficiary institution. Such indicators will aim at assessing improvements in the quality of
students admitted to the programs by using their scores on a nationally recognized entrance examination. In addition, a
core set of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project as a whole. For the academic
programs, such indicators will measure improvements in quality by analyzing changes in potential applicants'
perceptions of the quality of the specific programs, as measured by the relative ranking of the programs by students
taking the National Entrance Exam. Additional indicators will measure quality improvements on the basis of the ratings
assigned to specific study programs during site visits. For the Discipline Service Centers, performance indicators will
aim at evaluating the Centers' ability to promote their services. The first indicator will measure the extent to which the
academic faculty within a related discipline is aware of the services offered by the DSC; and the second indicator will
measure the percentage of targeted users, defined as S2 and S3 degree holders within a related discipline, who use the
services offered at the DSC. Specific indicators can be found in Annex 1.
A key feature of the project component financed by grants is that failure to achieve performance targets in any one year
will influence both the development strategy and the level of investment in subsequent years for each beneficiary
program. Targets will be set for each major category of activities financed under the Competitive Grants to Study
Programs-civil works, equipment, libraries, staff development, technical assistance, research grants, teaching grants,
and project management. The particular values of the targets can only be set once the study programs/faculties to be
funded are selected and investment plans are finalized. This feature also allows for continual monitoring of changes in
quality since annual evaluation is required.
Annual Progress Report: The CPCU will prepare, with the support of the BHE Secretariat, and the deans/heads of
departments, annual reports at the end of every Government fiscal year, summarizing: (a) the status of the activities
being implemented by the selected study programs based on the agreed indicators; (b) the activities of the DSCs based on
the agreed indicators; (c) summary activities of the BHE, including information on the agreed indicators; (d)
implementation progress and problems during the preceding year; and (e) a revised implementation plan for the
following year, setting out the measures recommended to ensure efficient implementation of the project and the
achievement of objectives during the following year.
Mid-term review: In addition to the annual reports, the Secretariat of the BHlE, assisted by the CPCU, will prepare a
mid-term review of the project. This review will integrate the results obtained from the use of performance indicators,
including progress achieved in implementing the project, and will set out the measures recommended to ensure that the
project is carried out efficiently and that its objectives are achieved during the remaining life of the project. The mid-
term review will include, inter alia, the progress of the beneficiary study programs in carrying out their individual
proposals and an evaluation of the DSCs.
Implementation completion report: At the completion of the project, the Secretariat of the BHE, assisted by the CPCU
and the deans/heads of faculty, would compile an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the
closing date of the loan. This report will summarize, among other things, (a) program activities in terms of input,
process, and output indicators for all project components; (b) the project financial status; and (c) implementation issues
and recommendations.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 7
Country: Indonesia                                                          Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Supervision plan: Bank Resident Staff in Indonesia (RSI) will liaise with the CPCU and dean/head of faculty and help
resolve problems requiring immediate Bank action. Bank supervision missions from headquarters, with RSI
participation, will be conducted twice a year.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the | Document numher and date of latest CAS discussion: 13988-lND
project:                               IFebruary 27, ]996 (updated on June 4, 1996)
*  Enhancing human resources development through investment projects and advice aimed at improving the quality and
efficiency of education services;
* Greater decentralization through increased autonomy and accountability at public universities;
* Local capacity building through improved management at participating institutions.
It should be noted that the contribution of the industrial sector to the national product in Indonesia has increased from 9.2
percent in 1969 to 23.9 percent in 1994. It is expected that growth in this sector will continue and will create a demand
for educated workers who can move Indonesia's industrial sector toward higher value-added activities and improve its
competitiveness in the global marketplace. This will be especially important as the Asia and Pacific Economic Council
(APEC) and World Trade Organization (WTO) agreements are implemented.
.    ............................................................................................I...................... ..........................................................................................I........................
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues. Over the last ten years, Indonesia's higher education subsector has grown into a well-diversified
system consisting of a small group of elite public universities, a larger group of mainstream public universities, public
polytechnics, and a large number of private universities. Much of the growth has been in the private sector, reflecting a
conscious policy on the part of the Govemment to limit expansion in the public sector. However, while Indonesia's
higher education system exhibits many desirable features, such as relatively high levels of cost recovery, the country's
institutions are still developing and the sector as a whole faces some systemic problems. These are discussed below.
Quality. The higher education subsector in Indonesia has expanded greatly during the last decade, with the number of
students enrolled increasing from 1.5 million in 1985 to 2.3 million in 1994. This expansion has had a negative impact on
the quality of higher education. In many institutions, the academic atmosphere is unsatisfactory; resources are not used
efficiently, students are taking too long to graduate, average GPAs are low, and the qualifications of teaching staff are
inadequate, with only 38 percent of university staff holding graduate degrees.
Relevance: The length of time between graduation and employment, while improving, is indicative of the mismatch
between the output of universities and the needs of the economy. Longer waiting times appears to be more of a problem
for graduates of lower quality universities and those graduating in the social sciences and humanities. Current enrollment
figures indicate that only 27 percent of graduates are in fields of national priority, such as engineering and technology,
health, agriculture and basic sciences.
Efficiency: The system suffers from low levels of extemal and intemal efficiency, as indicated by the excessive length
of time students take to graduate, the low student-teacher ratios, the limited utilization of physical space, and the low
number of student-staff contact hours per week.
Management: The system faces management problems both at the center and at individual institutions. The problems
arise for two reasons: first, investment decisions tend to be taken at the center where there may be limited knowledge of
local needs; and second, due to the lack of management training and expertise at the university level, investment
proposals are often unrealistic. Further, a lack of autonomy and responsibility at the university level has led to a lack of
accountability and transparency at the institutional level.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 8
Country: Indonesia                                                    Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Funding: Government funding for higher education in 1996/97 was about US$750 million, a low figure compared to
neighboring countries. The low level of support from the Government is supposed to be offset by self-generated
generating public support. However, because the universities lack both the autonomy to manage their self-generated
funds and the management capacity required to integrate resources coming from various sources, funding higher
education remains problematic.
Equity: Issues of equity are multifaceted in the Indonesian context. At one level, equity refers to the existing gaps
between Javanese universities and those on the Outer Islands. At another level, equity issues pertain to the differences
among social, economic, and ethnic groups within the population. It is therefore imperative that Government strategies
adopted to improve the quality of higher education take equity considerations into account.
Government Strategy:
Enrollment in higher education in 1995 was 1,129 students per 100,000 population, or a gross enrollment of 10.6 percent.
This is low compared to 1990 figures for Korea (3,899 per 100,000), the Philippines (2,738 per 100,000), and Thailand
(1,763 per 100,000). The Government of Indonesia hopes to increase participation to 2,439 students per 100,000
population (23 percent gross enrollment) by the year 2020, with an increasing share of students in private universities
and an increasing proportion of public university students enrolled in science and engineering.
Government strategy: GOI's strategy for the development of the education sector gives priority to quality improvements
at the primary level and to expansion at the secondary level. To date, the Government has pursued a strategy in post-basic
education of restricting expansion in the public senior secondary and university systems while relying on the private
sector to respond to the demand for more education. Both the substantial response of the private sector and the need to
devote public resources to finance the quality improvements and expansion of basic education argue for a continuation of
the current strategy, although some refocusing of the role of the state is required.
In higher education, the Government has already articulated a long-term strategic plan that largely responds to this
refocusing of the role of the state. It is centered around three core programs: (a) implementation of a New Paradigm in
higher education management; (b) improvement of relevance and quality; and (c) geographical and social equity.
Implementation of the New Paradigm. The New Paradigm is the name given to the restructuring of the higher education
system; it is the first core program in the Government's Higher Education Long-Term Strategy (1996-2005). The
Director General of Higher Education initiated the reform process in February 1995 with the development of a concept
paper entitled The New Paradigm, which (a) redefines the role of the center and of the individual institutions of higher
education, (b) focuses on educational outcomes, and (c)provides new mechanisms to enhance university level
decentralized planning and performance-based resource allocation. The reform effort is built around the promotion of
quality, autonomy, accountability, accreditation, and evaluation in the operation of both the system as a whole (public
and private) and individual universities.
A key element in this restructuring effort has been to introduce some competitive processes in the way funds are
allocated to public universities and subsidies are provided to private universities. Currently only a small proportion (7.3
percent) of the development budget (DIP) is allocated through a competitive scheme, while the rest, including the routine
budget (DIK), is directly allocated.
The DGHE is implementing a plan which allows for a gradual shift toward DIP allocation under the New Paradigm, with
Formr



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 9
Country: Indonesia                                                     Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
a decreasing proportion of the budget being directly allocated. The implementation of the New Paradigm could be
reflected in two different funding mechanisms: competitive and performance-based budget allocations. Although in both
schemes proposals are solicited and similar peer reviews are conducted, a major difference exists. In a competitive
scheme, the number of available grants is less than the number of possible beneficiaries, resulting in only the best
proposals being funded. In the performance-based scheme, all proposals are guaranteed funding, and the review process
only determines the level of funding granted. The competitive scheme has already been introduced to award research
funding under Hibah Bersaing in 1992, and expanded to award research units under the URGE Project (1994).
Competitive awards for the improvement of less established universities was introduced under the DUE Project (1996).
Competitive awards to high priority academic programs will be introduced under the QUE project.
In all competitive award programs, the university, academic program, or individual making the proposal is free to
propose the improvements that are judged to be most needed. Guidelines for the proposals are prepared by the DGHE to
encourage a self-evaluation of the nature of the problems to be overcome. The guidelines present only mild restrictions
on what can be proposed. The mechanism used for implementation, a single budget envelope or a block grant from
DGHE to the grantees, also allows for considerable discretion in what solutions can be attempted. The grants are
disbursed in tranches over several years, with the amount and timing of release dependent upon satisfactory progress in
meeting performance standards.
Performance-based funding will be implemented nationwide through the SP4 mechanism, and is expected to be fully
implemented within three to four years.
Quality and relevance: Low quality graduates are unlikely to generate many positive externalities. The Government
recognizes that it is not sufficient to make quality improvements only in public universities. A combination of increased
regulation, greater flow of information, and incentives is needed to improve the quality of private universities.
The key to improve regulation is to introduce of a more rigorous accreditation system for both public and private
universities. An independent agency, the National Accreditation Board, was established in 1995 with a mandate to
evaluate and verify universities' performance. During its first year of operation, 1996/1997, 1,500 study programs will
be evaluated, and all 11,500 programs will be evaluated within 5 years. Although the coverage of accreditation will not
differentiate between private and public institutions, the majority of the programs covered will be in private universities.
Under the existing system the role of the Coordination Office for Private Institutions (KOPERTIS) is central in providing
assistance to the private university system. Due to limited available financial resources, the types, extent, and amount of
Government assistance to the private institutions are also limited. Some concerns about the existing assistance scheme
are that it does not relate to institutional quality, productivity, and relevance, and that it fails to provide performance
incentives. As a result, the influence of public assistance on improving quality in private universities has been limited.
Allowing private universities to compete for competitive grants in this project provides a promising alternative to
improve quality.
To ensure greater relevance within the university system, the Government is proposing to allocate a greater percentage of
spaces within the public system to high priority fields in science and engineering. This would leave a smaller percentage
of positions in public universities for social science, where the private universities have demonstrated an ability to
produce graduates. Thus, the Government expects the percentage of social science students within public universities to
fall from the current proportion of 67 percent to 50 percent by the year 2005.
Geographical and social equity: The public sector has a role to play in promoting greater geographic and social equity.
Investment by the public sector in eastern and western Indonesia has somewhat counterbalanced the tendency of the
private sector to locate on Java. Currently, 57 percent of private universities and 40 percent of public universities are
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 10
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
located on Java. These universities account for 70 percent of the total enrollment in private universities and 50 percent of
the total enrollment in public universities. A continued emphasis on the Outer Island universities, particularly on
improving their quality, is warranted. The DUE project is one example of the efforts made to improve these universities.
.... ..................................................................................................................... ............ .................................................................................. ................................
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In the past, GOI has relied heavily on foreign financing for the investment budget in tertiary education. From 1980 to
1995, US$1.8 billion was acquired from sources such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, OECF, and from
Australia, Canada, Japan, Germany, and the United States. Over the last three fiscal years, roughly 40 percent of the total
DIP budget has been financed from foreign sources. As there is likely to be considerable pressure on the use of domestic
funds to finance the expansion of universal basic education, GOI is planning to continue to seek foreign financing for
investment activities in the tertiary sector.
Bank assistance to higher education, which accounted for 40 percent of the total foreign financing between 1980 and
1995, has supported the Government's strategy as it changed and developed over the years in response to the changing
needs of the society and the economy. The Government's new strategy for higher education development, as described
in the Higher Education Long-Term Development Strategy (1996-2005), comprises three core programs: (a) restructuring
of higher education management through the implementation of The New Paradigm; (b) improvement of relevance and
quality; and (c) improvement of geographical and social equity. Over the last few years, the Bank has provided support to
GOI to implement the New Paradigm, the first core program within the new strategy for higher education.
The QUE project, intended to address sector issues of quality and relevance of undergraduate education, is the second
core program of the Government's long-term strategy for higher education development. This project will achieve its
objectives through two types of activities: (a) encouraging modifications in the way public funds are allocated to public
universities; and (b) providing appropriate incentives to private universities. Additionally, this project will allow private
institutions to compete for funds. In its dealings with private universities, the Government has relied on three policy
instruments - regulation, accreditation, and positive incentives. Under the QUE project, the Government is putting into
place positive incentives to encourage private universities to improve their quality and relevance.
Study programs to be funded: One strategic choice made during project design pertained to the types of programs to be
funded. It was decided that priority disciplines under QUE would be those that are important to national development - -
engineering, mathematics, sciences, health, agriculture, management, and accountancy. All study programs in these
priority areas in public and some private SI degree-granting universities are eligible to participate in the competitive
process for support under the project.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 11
Country: Indonesia                                                      Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Private universities and conditions for their participation: It was agreed that the competitive award program would be
open to a limited set of study programs in the priority fields at private universities which meet the following conditions:
* the proposing study programs in private universities should be accredited with the National Accreditation Board
(BAN);
* eligibility is limited to the following study programs: electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, chemical
engineering, mathematics, biology, physics, and chemistry.
* the study programs must have an annual average tuition rate, including all fees, of no more than Rp4,000,000 for
incoming students in the academic year 1997/98, with any increase during the project period requiring a no objection
from the Education Council.
Limiting grants to ITB and IPB: It was agreed that support to the Institut Technology Bandung (ITB) and the Institut
Pertanian Bogor (IPB) be limited to, at most, three grants apiece in each round of competition but that no limit be placed
on the number of proposals submitted by the two institutions. The reasons cited for this decision are:
(a) over the three last fiscal years (1994/95 to 1996/97) ITB and IPB together received almost 23 percent of the total
investment budget (DIP), and will continue to receive substantial levels of investment funds in 1997/98, and
(b) both ITB and IPB are high quality, specialized institutions, with ITB focusing on engineering and technology and
IPB on agriculture, and both would easily capture a very high percentage of competitively awarded project funds, leading
to an uneven allocation of investment funds under the project.
Discipline Service Centers. It was decided that the QUE project would continue to support the Discipline Service
Centers (DSCs), established under the First Higher Education Development Project (HEDP I) and subsequently
supported under HEDP II. However, it was also decided to discontinue the centrally driven approach employed under
HEDP I and II and instead allocate funds based on performance. Investments will be made in two stages. During the first
stage, the DSCs will be provided with the facilities necessary to make their existing collections more accessible through
the establishment of on-line services. The investment required for this purpose is on the order of US$40,000 per center.
The DSCs will use this investment as start-up capital, and will be required to charge a fee for services provided, thereby
becoming self-supporting in the medium term. The second stage of support will be provided on the basis of
performance, with only those DSCs that demonstrate the capacity to efficiently utilize the first phase investment
receiving further support.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Below are some of the alternatives considered during project preparation and the rationale used in making specific design
choices.
Block Grants: The relative merits of the pre-existing versus alternative mechanisms for transferring funds from the
national level (the DIP) to the winning programs was discussed by the Bank and GOI preparation team. Three
alternatives were considered: BagPro, P2T, and block grants. BagPro and P2T are methods currently used to transfer
funds in the DIP. There was agreement that the block grant process provided tangible benefits in the form of:
* greater beneficiary ownership, since the grantee is the sole accountable unit,
* greater flexibility, since the DIP does not provide for reallocation across budget lines,
* greater accountability, since funding through a contract can be more easily delayed or canceled for unsatisfactory
performance than under the DIP, and
*  greaterfocus on achievement of outputs, since under the DIP and BagPro processes the primary focus is
disbursement of funds, while under block grants with a contractual arrangement the primary focus is on attainment of
agreed output targets and objectives; i.e., there will be a redirection of emphasis from input and process to impact
indicators of performance.
Number of Competitions: Initially, project design comprised only two rounds of competition, with 20 awards in each
round. At appraisal, the possibility of introducing a third round was considered by the Bank team and the GOI project
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 12
Country: Indonesia                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
preparation team. Although a two round competition is less expensive to administer, the advantage of a three round
process that it provides more time for the academic institutions to become acquainted with the processes involved in the
competition (self-assessment, proposal preparation, etc.) and allows GOI and the BHE more time to establish and test the
funding mechanisms. This, in turn, is thought to substantially enhance the prospects for sustainability of the funding
mechanism after project completion. Faced with a trade-off between costs and sustainability, the Bank and GOI team
agreed to conduct three separate rounds of competition and to increase the number of block grants from 40 to 45, to be
awarded in batches of 15 per round.
Project Coordination: Thought was given to including the CPCU for the University Research for Graduate Education
(URGE) project into the merged CPCU for the DUE and QUE projects. It was, however, decided that the administration
of the URGE project would remain unchanged due to the large number of programs it is administering, the complexity
of those programs, and the fact that the project is at its midpoint and that any major organizational change might disrupt
implementation
......   i~  ......   ............................................................................................. ....................................................................................................................................
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Earlier Bank assistance in higher education focused on supply driven, input-based investments that were sector-wide in
application. This type of investment strategy is evident in the First and Second Higher Education Development Projects
(HEDP I and HEDPII). These Bank-funded projects were directed toward achieving long-term goals identified by the
GOI. The projects provided the necessary inputs without explicit consideration given to the institutional structures and
mechanisms that would be necessary to ensure proper implementation. A second wave of projects has moved away
from sector-wide investments toward focused investments in those universities or study programs which have
demonstrated their worthiness through competition, while simultaneously changing the Government's role and the
sector framework in which universities operate. These projects include the University Research for Graduate Education
Project (URGE), which first introduced the concept of competitive funding for graduate education and university
research, and the Development of Undergraduate Education Project (DUE), which applies competitive funding
mechanisms at the level of individual universities to benefits the country's less established public institutions.
Implementation experience with the URGE project has proved highly satisfactory and supports the continuation of
competitive funding processes under subsequent projects.
10. Lssons learned and reflected in the project design:
The first twenty years of Bank lending in Indonesia for education were reviewed in a 1991 OED report entitled
Indonesian Education and the World Bank: An Assessment of Two Decades of Lending. While the report did not focus
specifically on higher education, some of its recommendations are applicable to higher education. In addition, there is a
1995 Performance Audit report on the Second University Development Project (Loan 2547-IND), a 1996 Implementation
Completion Report on the Second Higher Education Development Project (Loan 3311 -IND), and the results from the
November 1996 supervision of the University Research for Graduate Education (URGE) Project (Loan 3754-IND), all of
which provide guidance on improving higher education projects Indonesia. The Bank's best practice paper, Higher
Education: The Lessons of Experience, and the World Bank's sector strategy paper on education, Indonesia: Suggested
Priorities for Education, have a number of relevant recommendations for this project.
OED Report: The OED report from 1991 drew nine conclusions: (a) education should be relevant to the labor market;
(b) fellowship programs could be made more effective; (c) national capacities should be created and strengthened; (d)
sector work should be the basis for policy discussions; (e) successful sector lending rests on a solid empirical base, an
effective policy dialogue, consistency between Bank and Government objectives, and satisfactory implementation
procedures; (f) the pursuit of equity should not lead to an attempt to spread benefits too widely; (g) projects should be
compact and uncomplicated; (h) the Government should increase its financial commitment to the education sector; and
(i) private education will continue to play an important role and warrants Bank support. The project (a) seeks to make
the selected programs more relevant to the labor market; (b) builds on and enhances existing national capacities; (c) is
based on a number of studies carried out under HEDP 11; (d) is based on the findings of the sector strategy paper
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 13
Country: Indonesia                                                      Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
mentioned above; and (e) is compact and coherent; and (f) allows private universities to compete and therefore to
improve their quality.
Project Performance Audit Report: The 1995 Project Audit Performance Report on the Second University Development
Project recommended that quality improvement efforts be extended to other universities rather than continuing only with
the 16 included in that project. It also stressed the "need to shun complexity in large projects, specifically when they
have a strong element of innovation." It also suggested that a system in which institutions of higher education would
compete for funding might be the most appropriate way to enhance quality in Indonesian higher education. All of these
findings have been reflected in the project.
Implementation Completion Report: The main lesson learned from the Higher Education Development Project II is that
there is a need for much greater involvement of the beneficiaries in the design of a project. This lesson has already been
incorporated into the design of the DUE project, where the selected universities designed their own development plans,
including monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The same design principle will be continued under the QUE project.
Further, there is a need to give much greater consideration to project sustainability. Again, in the case of HEDP 11,
project sustainability has been called into question, mainly because the beneficiary institutions were not committed to
using DRK funds (self-generated income, mainly from tuition and fees) to sustain project investments. The QUE project
will ensure that the beneficiary programs contribute to supporting project investments with their own self-generated
resources. In addition, the QUE project will ensure that the beneficiary programs are responsible for efficiently deploying
resources toward project objectives and for reporting on utilization of funds and impact of project investments. This
failed to happen under HEDP II, where the beneficiary universities were exclusively responsible for implementation
aspects. As a result, the overall project impact is now difficult to assess.
University Research for Graduate Education Project; The first lesson to draw from URGE experience with block grants
as a funding mechanism is that the system is generally functioning well. Outlined below are a number of practices tried
and tested under the URGE project which are appropriate to incorporate directly into the QUE project, as well as some
areas that could be improved, particularly the block grant funding mechanism.
a.     Center grant selection and award process. The use of international reviewers in the site visit evaluation of
candidates at the final stage of Center Grant selection has been reported as a particular strength of the URGE project.
Although the involvement of international reviewers is considered to be less of a priority for the QUE project, study tours
to Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States to review grant selection, award, and implementation procedures
will ensure that the QUE procedures benefit from incorporation of relevant international experience.
b.     The block grant process. A significant number of the most recent Center Grant awardees lacked experience in:
(i) negotiating with suppliers, (ii) developing and adhering to financial plans, (iii) maintaining and reporting financial
records, and (iv) general awareness of the level of autonomy and accountability which the block grant entailed. Further,
many grantees were unfamiliar with the complexities of the procurement process. Based on these findings it is suggested
that the following be incorporated into the QUE project:
* a comprehensive project launch workshop for all grant beneficiaries involving presentations from the CPCU, RSI
Project Implementation Unit, and the State Auditors Office providing participants an opportunity to work through
case studies and practical procurement issues.
* the development of a computer-based project implementation manual employing hypertext technology, to be
maintained and updated by the CPCU and prepared in a format which will allow grant recipients to seek answers to
frequently asked questions and identify the appropriate steps in the procurement process.
* a meeting of grant recipients six months after the grant is awarded and on each anniversary of the grant to provide
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 14
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
a forum for the exchange of experiences and facilitate the development of a register of best practices from which all
grantees could benefit.
c.     Close monitoring of beneficiary financial reporting. Post review of URGE SOEs indicated that in some cases
Center Grant recipients had failed to achieve the specified level of 85 percent disbursement of grant funds by the first
anniversary of the contract. This was a prerequisite for the transfer of subsequent installments in the second year of the
contract. Although in some instances the 85 percent disbursement target had not been reached, second year installments
were released by the University Research Council (URC). Bank supervision of the URGE project recommended tighter
monitoring of Center Grant financial reports, including a required statement of actual, not planned, expenditures and
random biannual reviews of beneficiary Special Accounts to verify financial reports. It is recommended that under the
QUE project the CPCU and BHE establish similar procedures to closely monitor beneficiary financial reports.
Education sector strategy paper: The education sector strategy paper entitled Indonesia: Suggested Priorities for
Education calls for a shift in priorities for the Government with respect to higher education, especially as the private
sector gains importance. A greater role for the Government in envisioned in (a) regulation and accreditation; (b)
ensuring adequate information on quality of programs; (c) investing where the private sector is not investing and where
social returns are high enough to warrant public investment; and (d) creating incentives for better management at public
universities and more effective public assistance to private universities. The Government has already taken steps in this
direction with the implementation of the New Paradigm in higher education management, which is built around the
promotion of quality, autonomy, accountability, accreditation, and evaluation. A key instrument in this restructuring, and
one that the sector strategy paper endorses, is to introduce competitive processes in the way in which funds are allocated
to public universities and subsidies are provided to private universities. A system of block grants allocated on the basis of
performance would allow institutions greater flexibility in the utilization of funds while adding an element of
accountability and transparency.
The Bank's Best Practice Paper for Higher Education: The paper entitled Higher Education: The Lessons of Experience,
approved by the Board in 1994, contains four broad recommendations: (a) encourage greater differentiation of
institutions; (b) provide incentives for institutions to diversify sources of funding, and link government funding closely to
performance; (c) redefine the role of government in higher education; and (d) introduce policies explicitly designed to
give priority to quality and equity objectives. The project (a) encourages public and private institutions to develop
according to their perceived strengths; (b) provides incentives for institutions to maximize self-generated income and
links funding to performance under agreed program development plans; (c) supports a redefinition of the role of
government in higher education; and (d) includes incentives designed to improve quality and relevance. The project does
not include measures to improve social equity. This problem first needs to be addressed at the lower levels of education
as is currently being done in on-going Bank supported projects.
.  f i ................................................................................. .................... ....................... ................. .......................................................................................................
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has already taken steps toward designing structural reforms in the higher education sector. The
Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) took the first step in the reform process with the establishment of the
Higher Education Strategy Task Force in February 1995. The result was a document entitled "The New Paradigm",
which articulates the strategy for higher education in Indonesia for the coming decade. Bank assistance has been sought
to implement the new strategy, and support has already been provided under the URGE and the DUE projects. Further,
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 15
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
the Bank is now collaborating closely with GOI in order to define an overall policy framework for the country's       ]
education sector, and within that context, GOI is refining its strategy for higher education from 1996 to 2005. An
additional indication of Indonesia's commitment to reforming higher education is GOI's agreement to open the
competitive process to private institutions meeting specified criteria (see Block 2, section 7, paragraph 5 for information
on private institution participation).
............... ...... ..... .. ................................................................................................................................. . ....I .................................I..................
12. Value added of Bank support:
The Bank, in its continuing dialogue with GOI, has been instrumental in supporting the Government's decision to move
toward a decentralized management approach in the higher education field. The Bank's assistance for the project is very
timely in regard to the Government's efforts to put the higher education system on a new institutional footing. Through
its support for the URGE and DUE projects, the first core program proposed by the DGHE, implementing the New
Paradigm, has firmly taken root. Progress has also been made on the second core program, improving relevance and
quality. The QUE project will further what has already been achieved in these two areas. In this respect, the Bank's
involvement is especially helpful in providing (a) advice to the Government on alternative funding methods to be
considered for the sector to assist Indonesia in moving forward with quality, efficiency, and relevance gains; (b) guidance
on the decentralization process, drawing from recent experience in Indonesia as well as extensive experience in other
countries; and (c) assistance on how to further involve the private sector in the future.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic            [x]  Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; []    Cost             [ Other [Specify]
assessment (see Annex         ERR= 16.7%                                         Effectiv
4):                                                                              eness      ]
The project is assumed to generate direct          Analysis
benefits to the graduates of the academic
programs selected to receive an award, and
indirect benefits (expected to be
substantially lower) to the graduates of
academic programs that participate in the
competitive process.
Fiscal impact (for all projects):
The increase in tax revenue arising from the higher earnings of the graduates is US$21.6 million. This assumes a
marginal tax rate of 15 percent. Costs of US$62 million represent the public share of costs presented in the economic
analysis. It is expected that once the project is finished, an amount equal to roughly 10 percent of the study program
grants and Discipline Service Center grants will be required to ensure the continuation of the project. This is expected to
be financed out of the universities' DRK funds (self-generated funds).
,......... ......... ............................................................................................................................. .................................................................. ..............................
14. Financial assessment (see Annex 5):         NPV=US$ N.A.    million; FRR=  N.A. %
*  The project financing plan is shown on the front page. The proposed Bank loan of US$71.2 million will provide 65
percent of the total estimated financing requirement of US$109.06 million. The balance of US$37.9 million (35
percent), will be provided jointly by GOI and the beneficiary study programs through their DRK. This compares
favorably with the average ratio of Bank financing for social sector projects in Indonesia, which averages 70 percent,
thus indicating a strong borrower commitment to the project.
Formr



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 16
Country: Indonesia                                                   Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
15. Technical assessment:
The Bank has reviewed BHE's process of selecting the academic programs and Discipline Service Centers to receive
awards and found it acceptable. The BHE process is based on international experience with similar projects and with
Indonesian experience with the Bank's URGE and DUE projects. The process is as follows: (a) BHE issues guidelines
for pre-proposal submissions; (b) Eligible institutions submit pre-proposals; (c) The pre-proposals are reviewed by a
panel of national experts and the BHE; (d) A short list is prepared and guidelines for full proposals are distributed to
institutions on that list; (e) A review of full proposals, involving site visits, is made; (f) Final selection is made; and (g)
contract is drawn up between the CPCU and the winning study program. The contracts are subject to the no objection of
the Bank.
During preparation, the BHE has participated in several visits to other countries to review the mechanisms used to select
programs through competitive awards. Throughout the project, additional visits are planned to help the BHE with the
process of monitoring performance.
16. Institutional assessment:
Executing agencies: All of the agencies involved in the execution of the QUE project have had previous experience with
the implementation of competitive funding schemes. The DGHE is overseeing implementation of both the URGE and
DUE projects and is fully familiar with the processes involved. The BHE Secretariat was involved in the selection of
awardee institutions under the DUE project and is currently monitoring the institutions' progress in grant implementation.
Further, the GOI project preparation team should be commended for preparing a very thorough and comprehensive
Project Implementation Plan. There will, however, be a need to assist the academic programs that participate in the
competition in developing their skills in self-analysis and proposal preparation, and for the winning study programs to
become acquainted with the process involved in implementation of the grants. Such needs are being addressed by the
project through workshops on proposal preparation and grant implementation (described in Block 1, section 4 above).
Project Management: The project will be managed by a combined DUE/QUECPCU. Project management capacity is
considered to be very good, as the merger of the CPCUs will allow for sharing of experiences among the two projects and
will make use of staff who are already well trained and fully familiar with procurement and disbursement procedures
under the block grant system. In addition, the merger may result in overall savings in terms of staff and office equipment.
1. Social assessment:
There are no foreseeable social factors that would impede achieving the development objectives of this project.
18. Environmental assessment:     Environmental        [j]  A   [3]  B  [X]I C
November 7, 1996               Category
19. Participatory approach:               Identification/Preparatio  Implementa       Operation
n               tion
Beneficiaries/community groups
Intermediary NGOs
Academic institutions
Public universities CON,COL             CON,COL  COL
Association of private universities                  CON,COL  COL
Local government
Other donors
Asian Development Bank IS,CON
Stakeholder participation is described by the form of their involvement: Information Sharing (IS), Consultation (CON), and
Collaboration (COL).
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 17
Country: Indonesia                                                    Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
20. Sustainability:
The risks to sustainability for both the project as a whole and the individual academic programs winning a competitive
grant seem quite low.
Project sustainability: Project sustainability depends on the government's commitment to the continued use of these
funding mechanisms. The government's commitment is indicated by their agreement to performance indicators related to
the use of the funding mechanism. Currently, about 7 percent of the DIP budgets are allocated through competitive or
performance-based funding mechanisms. It is anticipated that by mid-project this would rise to 12 percent of the DIP,
and by project completion to 15 percent.
Sustainability in the academic programs: Continued commitment on the part of faculties/programs is likely, since
proposals are required to include plans for sustaining the current investment through commitment of about 15 percent of
their DRK (self-generated) funds to sustain project activities.
21. Critical risks:
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                    Risk                    Risk Minimization Measure
Raling
Institutions and/or study programs could  Low    We would expect that since competitive funding and autonomy
make poor investment decisions.                  are new concepts to universities, some investment decisions will
fail (therefore, a beneficiary study program with a 10 percent
failure rate would still be considered a good performer). It is
expected that over time, performance will improve.
Improvements in quality of the                   The Board of Higher Education will broadly publicize the
beneficiary study programs may not be    Moderate  awards programs and the outcome of the competitive process, in
perceived by students.                           order to raise awareness of qualitative improvements in winning
programs among the student population.
Project components to outputs
Risk                     Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Reviewers might not evaluate proposals            Criteria for proposal evaluation have been established and
based on potential quality improvements but   Low    included in the Guidelines for Proposal Selection. Reviewers
would select academic programs based on           have been familiarized with the Guidelines and Selection
past reputation.                                  Criteria. Reviewers were selected nationally.
Beneficiaries might fail to achieve the   Low    Close monitoring of beneficiary financial reporting. The
specified level of disbursement of grant          CPCU and the BHE will establish reports requiring a
funds.                                            statement of actual, not planned, expenditures, with random
biannual reviews of beneficiary Special Accounts to verify
financial reports.
Selection of programs to receive grants   Low    (a) For the first batch of proposals, the Bank appraisal mission
might not be open and transparent.                reviewed the processes used during the first phase of the
competition. This was based on a random sample of programs
that were and were not selected to present full proposals.
These processes were found to be satisfactory. Technical
audits will review the selection process in subsequent batches.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 18
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
b) It is expected that the QUE project will benefit from the
lessons from the ongoing URGE project in the selection of
program awards.
Possibility of future policy changes away       Low     The general satisfaction with the mechanisms already being
from the results-oriented budget allocation             used in the URGE and the DUE projects will make it difficult
system supported under the New Paradigm.                for any future policy maker to reverse the reform process
already underway.
Money from other sources, including GOI    Moderate  Close monitoring of beneficiary financial reporting. The
revenues, the university's own resources,               CPCU and the BHE will establish reports requiring a statement
and donor funds, could counteract money                 of actual not planned expenditures, with random biannual
received from the project.                              reviews of beneficiary Special Accounts to verify financial
reports.
Overall project risk rating                  Low        Based on the positive experience with URGE and the smooth
implementation of DUE, no major problems are expected.
.............................. ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
22. Possible controversial aspects:
The project has some elements of a social investment fund project. In these demand-driven projects, the Bank approves
only the procedures to be followed, with what ultimately gets funded depending on the actions of the beneficiaries.
Controversy could center around the most appropriate way to proceed. The Bank could either: (a) wait until the
selection of the two batches is completed and fund the selected proposals; or (b) approve the procedures and ensure
compliance with selection mechanisms prior to the selection of final beneficiaries.
Our recommended alternative is (b) above: for the Bank to approve procedures and not wait for final selection to occur
before presenting the project to the Board. The rationale is that in most competitive awarding of grants, the financing is
secured and procedures developed before the initial selection takes place. Additionally, the major drawback to the first
alternative is that many universities would be investing a significant amount of their own funds in project preparation
without assurances that any funds would be awarded to them.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness conditions
Standard
24. Other:
Accounting/Audit
a. The Borrower shall, not later than 28 February, 1998, 31 January, 2000, and 31 January, 2002, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for comments, terms of reference for carrying out the respective technical audits of project implementation; by
31 July, 1998, 31 July, 2000, and 31 July, 2002, cause technical audits to be carried out in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank; and promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments a copy of each such technical
audit.
b. A special deposit account equivalent to US$5,000,000 will be established.
Monitoring, review and reporting
a. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
Formr



Project Appraisal Document                                              Page 19
Country: Indonesia                                                      Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
basis the carrying out of the project; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about 30 June, 2001, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed; (iii) review with the Bank, by 30 September, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities and
thereafter take all measures to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
b. The Borrower shall, not later than 30 June, 1998, furnish to the Bank the criteria, procedures, guidelines, and model
draft contract for DSC Grants for the Bank's review and approval.
Management aspects
a. The Borrower shall, until completion of the project, maintain the BHE and the CPCU in accordance with terms of
reference, staffing, and resources acceptable to the Bank.
Flow and utilization offunds
a. The Borrower undertakes that Grant and DSC Grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the
conditions set forth in paras. 3-6 below.
b. The Borrower shall carry out training programs acceptable to the Bank.
c. Grants and DSC Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank to: (i) require the Grantee of DSC Grantee to carry out the subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound educational, technical, financial, and managerial standards and
practices, and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (a) the goods, works, and consultant services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Annex 6, and (b) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in carrying out the subproject; (iii) require the Grantee and DSC Grantee to maintain
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the
subproject or DSC subproject and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (iv) inspect such goods and sites, works, and
construction included in the subproject and DSC subproject and any relevant records and documents; (v) require that the
Grantee or DSC Grantee shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance as shall be consistent with
sound business practice; (vi) obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Bank shall reasonably request related to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations, and financial condition of the Grantee or DSC Grantee; (vii) suspend
or terminate the right of the Grantee or DSC Grantee to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Grantee
or DSC Grantee to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
d. Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only: (i) to the Grantee which has (a) the organization, management,
staffing, and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the subproject, and (b) prepared an acceptable plan
for carrying out the subproject; and (ii) for a subproject which is determined by the Borrower to be (a) technically feasible
and cost effective, and (b) to have been designed in accordance with appropriate educational standards.
e. Each DSC Grant shall be made by the Borrower only (i) to a DSC Grantee which has (a) the organization,
management, staffing, and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the DSC subproject, and (b) prepared
an acceptable plan for the carrying out of the DSC subproject; and (ii) for a DSC subproject which is determined by the
Borrower (a) to be technically feasible and cost effective, and (b) to have been designed in accordance with appropriate
educational standards.
f. No expenditures for goods and services required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out publicize of the
proceeds of the Loan unless the subproject or DSC subproject shall have been presented to the Bank for review and
approval. When presenting a subproject or DSC subproject to the Bank for review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
a draft Grant Agreement or DSC Grant Agreement in a form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the
subproject or DSC subproject including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Formr



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 20
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]    [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: None. The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Manager:         Newman                                                     Division Chief: Samuel Liebenrman
Formn



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 21
Country: Indonesia                                                 Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Supervision             and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                  There are no
To enhance human                                                               "disconnects" between
resources development                                                          CAS objectives and the
through investment                                                             Bank's mission
projects and advice aimed
at improving the quality
and efficiency of education
services.
Project Development
Objectives
(1) For selected study
To improve quality in 45    programs:
selected study programs.                               Indicators will be based   The competitive process
(a) percent of top students  on a review of National   will generate quality
taking the National Entrance  Entrance Exam scores,   improvements among all
Exam (UMPTN) who specify    site visits surveys, and    participating academic
that the study programs       the use of Power       programs, not just those
supported by the QUE project   Analysis. (See pages    that win one round of
are their first or second choice.  25-28 for additional  the competition.
This indicator measures the   details). They will be
changes in the potential     reviewed at midterm and
applicant's perception of the  at the end of the project
quality of the program.       and will be carried out
by Bank staff or by
Baseline  Midterm End         consultants with
(expected)                   expertise in these areas.
0.20     10% incr 20% incr
(b) percent of selected study
program grants rated as
successful or highly successful
by the BHE in follow-up site
visit
Baseline  Midterm  End
NA        75%      90%
(c) percent of selected study
program grants rated as highly
successful by the BHE in
follow-up site visit
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 22
Country: Indonesia                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Baseline Midterm End
NA         10%    15%
(2) For Discipline Service
Centers:
(a) percent of academic faculty
within related discipline aware
of services offered at discipline
service center
Baseline Midterm End
NA        0.50       0.75
(b) percent of targeted users
within related discipline who
have made use of services
offered by Discipline Service
Center
Baseline Midterm End
NA        0.20       0.40
Project Outputs
The winning academic
programs will be able to
make sound investmnent
(1) Support through         Percentoftranchereleasdecisions and utilize
competitive funding         upercn modfie t oranche urelae hel                        block grants funds
mechansms prvided.   study programs to meet                                    efciey
performance standards                                     Improvements in quality
Baseline   Midterm      End                               in the beneficiary study
NA           10%         10%                             programs will be
perceived by students
(2) Performance-based       Percent of tranche releases held   This will be reviewed
support to DSCs provided   up or modified for failure of    twice a year by DGHE
DSCs to meet performance        based on reports
standards                       submitted by
universities. Progress
Baseline   Midterm    End       will also be monitored
NA          10%         10%    by Bank staff during
supervision missions
held twice a year.
Note: By midterm there
are expected to be 48
Form stnad



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 23
Country: Indonesia                                                 Project Title: Quality of tndergraduate Education
separate tranche releases
to the DSCs and 200
separate tranche releases
to the study programs.
By the end of the
project, there will be 96
tranche releases to the
DSCs and 400 to the
study programs.
(3) Results-oriented budget Percentage of yearly DIP    This will be reviewed
allocation system        budget for supporting          yearly by DGHE and
implemented.              udgetifo sping                findings submitted to the
universities which is allocated
competitively and on the basis   Bank at the time of
of performance                supervision.
Baseline  Midterm     End
7.3%       12%       15%
Project Components
[See Annex 2 for a detailed
description.]
1. Competitive Grants to   -Selection of first batch of  Action completed      Reviewers will evaluate
Study Programs           proposals to be funded                                proposals based on
potential quality
-Review of experience with    To be completed by     improvements rather
first batch selection process  November 1997         than simply selecting
academic programs on
-Review and selection of      To be completed by July  the basis of past
second batch proposals        1998                   reputation
- Review and selection of third   To be completed by  The selection of
batch proposals               November 1999          programs to receive
grants will be open and
-Support to the BHE           To be completed by     transparent
November 1997
Beneficiaries will
achieve the specified
level of disbursement of
grant funds
2. Performance-based      - Direct Allocation of Funds  To be completed by
awards to Discipline                                    September 1998
Service Centers          -Review and selection of DSCs'
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 24
Country: Indonesia                                                   Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
proposals
To be completed by
-Performance-based grants to    May 1999
selected DSCs
3. Results-oriented budget  BAPPENAS and MOF to                                   Future policies will
allocation system         identify activities currently                           continue to support the
undertaken to allocate                                 results-oriented budget
competitively and performance-                         allocation system
based funds                                            supported under the
New Paradigm
BAPPENAS and MOF to
project future flows of funds to                       Money from other
be allocated in a competitive                          sources, including GOI
and performance-based manner                           revenues, the
university's own
BAPPENAS and MOF to            Prior to midterm review   resources and donor
identify new activities to    (September 2001)         funds, will not
replace projects that will be                          counteract money
ending over the next six years                         received from project
in order to continue result-
oriented budget allocation
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 25
Country: Indonesia                                                  Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Key Performance Indicators for Academic Study Programs
Rationale
The first indicator measures changes in the applicant's perception of quality of the program. If the academic
program grant improves the quality of the program, one would expect this to be reflected in an increase in the
percentage of applicants who select the academic program as their first or second choice. To the extent that
perceptions of quality are related to improvements in quality, the indicator would provide some evidence of whether
the QUE project is fulfilling its objectives of improving quality. However, it is possible for there to be
improvements in quality that, because of poor information flows, are not perceived by parents and potential
students. Similarly, it is possible that the announcement of the award will generate expectations of improvements in
quality without the improvements actually taking place.
The above indicator is supplemented with a second one that is intended to reflect changes in an expert
group's perception of the quality of the program. The assessment would be based on site visits conducted at
midterm and at the end of the project by the same type of expert panel that would participate in the initial selection
process. The expert groups would be expected to include some international experts to ensure that the Indonesian
academic programs are preparing students for worldwide competition.
Consideration was given to constructing an indicator based on changes in earnings revealed in tracer studies
of graduates. In contrast to many instances when it is impossible to identify the selection process from the impact of
the intervention, the particular way in which students are allocated to universities does provide an opportunity to
form a reasonable control group for the treatment group of interest (i.e., the graduates of a program selected to
receive a QUE grant). For any selected academic program (e.g., civil engineering in University X), a treatment
group would be drawn from a sample of students with test scores between A and B who select University X as their
first choice and are allocated to University X. The control group would be drawn from a sample of students with
test scores also between A and B who select any other university as their first choice and are allocated to their first
choice. Provided the range of the scores between A and B is narrow enough, there should be very little difference
in the initial quality of the applicants. Ideally, the control group should consist of those students whose scores were
sufficiently high that they would have been allocated to University X if only they had listed it as their first choice.
The effect of the quality improvements could then be measured as the difference of differences (the difference
between earnings of graduates of University X who benefited from the quality improvements compared to the
control group, minus the difference between earnings of graduates of University X prior to the quality improvements
compared to the control group in the previous period).
This option was not selected primarily because of problems of timing and costs. First, the effect of the
improvements in quality on earnings would be expected to extend beyond the period of the project. If it takes two
years to make the improvements in quality, it would still take four to five years after that before the students who
would fully benefit from the quality improvements would enter the labor market. Moreover, the improvements in
quality would have to be perceived by the employers and this, too, may take some time to be revealed. The
indicator based on perception of quality by the prospective students could be expected to respond more rapidly as
the students may anticipate the employers' responses. Second, the costs of conducting a tracer study large enough
to provide estimates of the desired precision would be considerable, whereas the indicator based on perception of
quality would be based on data that are already being collected and could be calculated with minimal additional
cost.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 26
Country: Indonesia                                                     Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Calculation
Percent of top students who rate selected study program as first or second choice.
This measure will be based on the scores and preferences of all individuals taking the UMPTN test, a
national entrance exam that governs entry into all public universities. This national entrance exam will be used to
govern entry into those academic programs in private universities that wish to participate in the QUE project. The
indicator would be calculated in three steps:
Step 1.
From the universe of all students taking the UMPTN test, a sample will be drawn of all students who have
specified as either their first or second choice one of the academic programs considered within the QUE project to
be of highest priority.
Step 2.
For each high priority program, the 1,000 students with the highest UMPTN score will be selected. With 11
high priority programs, this yields a total of 11,000 observations.
Step 3.
The baseline indicator will be calculated as the sum of all students reporting the selected academic program
as their first or second choice in 1996 divided by 11,000. The indicators for the midterm and final period will be
calculated in a similar fashion and compared to the target.
Percent of study programs rated as successful and highly successfiul.
This measure will be calculated in a similar fashion to the way the initial program assessment will be
conducted during the site visits. Specific criteria will be identified and the academic program will be rated against
those criteria. The overall rating will be a weighted average of the ratings in different areas.
Power Analvs
In assessing performance of the academic study programs, the intention is to test whether there has been a
significant change from the baseline values to the midterm and final targets (i.e., whether the differences between
the baseline value and midterm and final targets do not reflect merely random fluctuations due to chance). Thus, a
power analysis for the test of the difference between two proportions, each coming from a separate sample, is
presented. The null hypothesis is that there is no difference in the two proportions. The alternative hypothesis is that
the difference is equal to some other value, 6. In the calculations that follow we set the type I error (the probability
of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true) to 0.05. Power is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis
when it is true.
Because the baseline proportion can only be determined when the academic programs pass the final
selection step, we present power calculations for alternative baseline proportions ranging from 0.05 to 0.25. The
power analysis is done for two different sample sizes, assuming either the top 1,000 or top 2,000 students in each
study program are selected for analysis. However, because this analysis uses data from the entrance exams that are
already being collected, there is no cost to adding observations. Thus, it will be possible to achieve whatever power
is desired, regardless of the initial base proportion.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 27
Country: Indonesia                                                       Project Title: Qualiy of Undergraduste Education
Base Proportion              Difference           Power                            Power
(11,000 observations)            (22,000 observations)
0.10                         0.005                .34                              .53
0.01                .78                               .96
0.02                .99                               .99
0.15                         0.005                .27                              .43
0.01                .66                               .89
0.02                .99                               .99
0.20                         0.005                .24                              .37
0.01                .58                               .83
0.02                .98                               .99
0.25                         0.005                .21                              .33
0.01                .52                               .78
0.02                .96                               .99
Since each selected program will be visited, there are no sampling issues involved in the second indicator.
Key Performance Indicators for Discipline Service Centers
Rationale
The objectives of the two indicators are to measure knowledge and use. To meet these targets, the managers
of the Discipline Service Centers will have to undertake some marketing effort. Under the previous Higher
Education Loan, improvements were made to the libraries, but little effort was made to promote them, and the
libraries remained underused. The indicators provide appropriate incentives.
C~al cu lati on
The indicators will be calculated based on survey data collected from a sample of faculty members of each
high priority discipline of public and accredited private universities. Some care will have to be taken in wording
the questionnaire to ensure that the respondents are indeed aware of the services and not simply responding in the
way they think they should.
Power analysis
In assessing performance of the Discipline Service Centers, the intention is to test whether the proportion is
significantly greater than the performance target. This is a one-sample proportion test. The null hypothesis is that
the proportion is equal to the target value. Presented below is a table illustrating the required sample sizes to ensure
a power of 0.95 for different values of the alternative hypothesis and for all the targets set as performance indicators.
In all calculations, the probability of type I error is set at 0.05 and the test is structured as a one-sided test.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 28
Country: Indonesia                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Hypothesized value of proportion             Alternative hypothesis           Required sample size
0.2                                    0.05                             101
0.10                            141
0.15                            624
0.4                                    0.20                             101
0.25                            107
0.30                            251
0.35                            1031
0.5                                    0.35                             122
0.40                            281
0.45                            1092
0.75                                    0.55                            101
0.6                             107
0.65                            230
0.70                            873
Note that when the alternative hypothesis is close to the hypothesized value a larger sample size is required to
achieve the desired power. A reasonable balance between precision and the cost of running the survey would be to
set the sample size at 280 observations per Discipline Service Center. With 12 Discipline Service Centers this
would require a total sample size of 3,360.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 29
Country: Indonesia                                                  Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - Improving Quality through Providing Competitive Grants to Study Programs
US$95.9 million
Within the public sector, the competitive award program would be open to all SI degree-granting institutions
except for IKIPs, STKIPs, art universities, the open university and extension and other part-time programs.
Priority disciplines will include civil engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, mathematics,
physics, chemistry, medical science, animal husbandry, agribusiness, management and accountancy. Private
universities whose programs meet the following guidelines are also eligible to qualify for competitive grants:
*  the proposing study programs in private universities should be accredited with BAN;
*  eligibility is limited to the following study programs: electrical engineering, mechanical engineering,
chemical engineering, mathematics, biology, physics, and chemistry.
*  the study programs set an annual average tuition rate, including all fees, of no more than Rp 4,000,000 for
incoming students in the academic year 1997/1998, with any increases during the project period requiring a
no objection from the Education Council.
Eligible study programs will include mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering, chemical
engineering, mathematics, biology, physics, and chemistry.
In addition, this component will support the BHE in preparing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating the
project.
Project Component 2 - Expansion of the Discipline Service Centers through Direct Investment and
Performance-based Awards
US$ 10.0 million
The main focus of direct investment in the Discipline Service Centers would be to establish the capacity to
deliver on-line services. This will involve three elements:
* Hardware connections. The DSCs could subcontract with national internet service providers. It is
recommended that consideration be given to combining service provision to several DSCs to make the
contract more attractive to a service provider and therefore receive a lower price.
*  Preparation and maintenance of web sites specific to the discipline. It is recommended that consideration be
given to the inclusion of a small number of grants for academics to prepare such sites. In addition, funds
should be made available to finance some subscriber services on the internet.
*  Provision of related software.
In addition, direct investment in the DSCs will finance the provision of relevant books and journals to the
DSCs and will fund technical assistance to strengthen the BHE's capacity to carry out appraisal of DSCs'
grant proposals. Competitive grants to the selected DSCs will finance specific research, education, and
technical support subprojects, including the integration of DSC materials into coursework and its services
into academic research. It is recommended that some portion of the grant funds be allocated for DSC staff
to assist university teaching staff in integrating material into coursework and using the service for other
university-related work.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 30
Country: Indonesia                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Project Component 3 - Support to the CPCU
US$3.2 million
This component will finance the provision of office equipment and consumables for the Central Project
Coordination Unit, which is responsible for monitoring and assisting the deans/heads of programs in
implementing their respective projects, collecting and analyzing data from the target programs, carrying out
procurement and disbursement at the central level, and supervising and monitoring procurement and
disbursement activities at the level of individual study programs. In addition, the project will finance honoraria
for CPCU staff, as well as their domestic travel connected with project implementation and monitoring.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                               Page 31
Country: Indonesia                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                               Local          Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million----------------
Improving Quality through Competitive Grants to                     93.61             1.22       94.83
Undergraduate Study Programs in Public and Private
Universities
Improving Discipline Service Centers through Direct                  2.05            7.95        10.00
Investment and Performance-based Awards
Support to the CPCU                                                  2.27            0.18         2.45
Total                                                               97.93            9.35       107.28
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                            0.01            0.04         0.05
Price Contingencies                                                1.65           0.08          1.73
Total Project Cost                                                  99.59            9.47       109.06
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 32
Country: Indonesia                                                     Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(U.S. dollars, 1997)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial      Present Value   Present Value
Analysis        Analysis2      of Future       of Public
Taxes           Expenditures
Benefits
144,000,000                    21,600,000      62,000,000
Costs
73,000,000
Net Benefits:
IRR: 16.7
The project will benefit the economy at large by providing a pool of better trained graduates in fields of
national priority, thereby making a useful contribution to the rapid industrialization process. In addition, the project
will result in a more cost-effective use of government financing through support for study programs in priority fields
at private universities, which will offset the lack of private sector financing. At the level of recipient departments
and study programs, the project will improve planning and management and increase accountability in the use of
funds. Benefits realized from this project will accrue to: (i) the study programs which receive the grants and the
home university, which will have higher quality programs and attract more and better students and faculty; (ii) the
study programs which competed but lost, since participating in the competitive process will have caused them to
evaluate their programs, identify weaknesses, and propose solutions-some of which they can begin to implement
even in the absence of receiving the grant; (iii) the students who receive their degrees from those study programs
selected and (iv) there may be spillover effects to others in the workforce, since the presence of some higher quality
workers could increase overall productivity through spillover effects.
Some of the benefits mentioned above are difficult to quantify. However, the expected incremental gains to
the salaries of graduates from the beneficiary study programs can be quantified and are reflected in the above table
as the present value of the benefits. These are primarily private benefits. The costs are the tuition and fees students
and their families pay, together with the costs borne by the public sector. The discount rate used is 10 percent. Both
costs are included in the present value of flows above.
The second part of the table presents the expected fiscal impact. The present value increase in tax revenue
arising from the higher earnings of the graduates is US$21.6 million. This assumes a marginal tax rate of 15
percent. The present value of US$62 million represents the public share of the costs presented in the economic
analysis.
Because of the uncertainty regarding the flow of benefits, a Monte Carlo simulation of both the direct and
indirect benefits was conducted. The direct benefits accrue to the graduates of the academic programs selected to
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                             Page 33
Country: Indonesia                                                     Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
receive a grant. Three batches of grants will be awarded, with fifteen awards handed out in each batch. In
addition, the project is expected to generate (substantially lower) indirect benefits to graduates of other programs
that may benefit from going through the competitive process. The main assumptions used in the simulation, the
results and some sensitivity analysis are presented below.
Main Assumptions
I . The direct and indirect benefits are assumed to affect 15 graduating cohorts, starting in the second year of the
program.
2. Operation and maintenance expenses of $1.8 million a year (10 percent of yearly academic program grants) are
expected to be incurred for 10 years, beginning in year 7.
3. For each graduating cohort, the number of years the direct benefits last is assumed to follow a normal
distribution with a mean of 20 years and a standard deviation of 4 years. The number of years the indirect
benefits last is assumed to follow a normal distribution with a mean of 10 years and a standard deviation of 4
years.
4. The per student direct benefit is assumed to follow a normal distribution with a mean of US$500 a year and a
standard deviation of US$50. This is the most critical assumption in determining the economic rate of return.
The mean of US$500 was selected based on the results of a 1994 T racer Study that measured the earnings of
students from different universities graduating between 1989-1991. The ten universities in the study can be
divided into a group of high quality universities and lower quality universities. The average earnings of the
cohort graduating from the high quality universities was US$5,217, while that of the graduates of low quality
universities was US$2,899, making a net difference of US$2,3 18. However, part of this difference was due to
differences in field of study and in the initial quality of the student. Moreover, even after controlling for the
field and initial quality of the student, part of the wage differential reflects past investments. For these reasons,
the lower figure of US$500 was used. The benefits are assumed to accrue starting in the second year. However,
because the initial graduates will not have had the full benefit of the quality improvements, their net increase is
assumed to be 25 percent of the full benefit. This proportion is assumed to increase by 25 percent every year
until it reaches 100 percent.
5. The per student indirect benefit was assumed to follow a normal distribution with a mean of 50 and a standard
deviation of 10. Again, the same gradual increase in benefits is assumed as for the direct benefits.
6. The number of graduates per program per year is assumed to follow a normal distribution with a mean of 80 and
a standard deviation of 8. This is assumed for programs which both directly and indirectly benefit. The number
was chosen because it reflects current sizes.
7. The number of programs with indirect benefits was assumed to follow a normal distribution with a mean of 300
and standard deviation of 40. This was based on the response of 314 academic programs to the call for
proposals in the first batch and the strong incentive effects expected from the move to more competitive
funding.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 34
Country: Indonesia                                                 Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Results
The results of a simulation of 1,000 runs are given below. The average return was 16.7 percent.
Statistics:                                                     Value
Trials                                                     1000
Mean                                                      0.167
Median                                                    0.169
Mode                                                          ---
Standard Deviation                                        0.023
Variance                                                   0.001
Skewness                                                  -0.379
Kurtosis                                                   3.496
Coeff. of Variability                                      0.138
Range Minimum                                             0.082
Range Maximum                                             0.230
Range Width                                               0.148
Mean Std. Error                                           0.001
The following table of percentiles and the cumulative chart provides information on the probability of
observing different rates of return. For example, the table of percentiles indicates that 20 percent of the 1,000
runs resulted in an internal rate of return of 15.0 percent or less. Conversely, one can conclude that the
probability of achieving a rate of return greater than 15.0 percent (given the assumptions) is 80 percent.
Percentiles:
Percentile                                   Percent
0%                                       0.082
10%                                       0.138
20%                                       0.150
30%                                       0.157
40%                                       0.163
50%                                       0.169
60%                                       0.173
70%                                       0.179
80%                                       0.187
90%                                       0.196
100%                                       0.230
Form



ProJect Appraisal Document                                                    Page 35
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Forecast: rinternal rate of returnl
1,000 Trials                 Cumulative Chart                   7 Outilers
1.0001           0             0 -213                         1000
760  --                       - - - - - - - - - - - -750
.0 500   - - - - -- - - -                  - li -              500
.250    -     -      -    -    -    - -    -    -    -fl-I-   -    -250
0 100        0 138         0 1 5         213         0.250
Percent|
Sensitivity Analysis
Based on the rank correlation, the most important assumptions affecting the internal rate of return are the per
student indirect benefits (with a rank correlation of .49). the number of years indirect benefits last (.39), the
graduates per program with direct benefits per year (.39), the per student direct benefits per year (.35), the
number of programs with indirect benefits (.33), and the graduates per program with indirect benefits per year
(.27). Keeping all other assumptions constant but assuming that the per student indirect benefit follows a normal
distribution with a mean of $25 (instead of US$50) and the same standard deviation, would lower the expected
internal rate of return to 13.8 percent. Keeping all other assumptions constant but assuming that the number of
years the indirect benefits last follows a normal distribution with mean 5 and standard deviation 2 (instead of
mean of 10 years with standard deviation of 4) would lower the rate of return to 15.1 percent. Keeping all other
assumptions constant but assuming that the graduates per program with direct benefits follows a normal
distribution with mean 70 (instead of 80) would lower the expected rate of return to 15.6 percent. Finally,
keeping all other assumptions constant but assuming that the per student direct benefit follows a normal
distribution with a mean of US$400 (instead of US$500) would lower the expected rate of return to 14.9 percent.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 36
Country: Indonesia                                                                             Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Annex 5
Quality of Undergraduate Education
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Million, 1997 Base Year)
Implementation Period                                  Operational Period
1998   1999   2000   2001    2002                       2003
Project Costs
Investment costs                       9.8       15.6      23.0       22.9         23.0          14.7
Total                              9.8       15.6       23.0      22.9          23.0         14.7
Financing sources (% of
total prQject costs
IBRD/IDA  (65%  of                     6.0       10.0      16.0       15.0          15.0          9.5
project costs)                         (61.2%)  (64.1 %)   (69.5%)   (65.5%)        (65.2%)      (64.6 %)
Government (35%  of                    3.8        5.6       7.0        7.9           8.0          5.2
project costs)                         (38.7%)   (35.9%)   (30.4%)   (34.5%)        (34.8%)      (35.7%)
Total                              9.8       15.6       23.0      22.9          23.0         14.7
Formn



Project Appralsal Document                                       Page 37
Country: Indonesia                                               Project Title: Quality of tndergraduate Education
Annex 6
Quality of Undergraduate Education
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of goods, services and works under the project would be carried out by the well-established Central
Project Coordination Unit (CPCU) located within the Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE), which
has been responsible for, and has gained experience in, procurement activities under the DUE project.
Procurement under the Study Program and DSC Grants would be carried out by respective grant awardees. The
CPCU would provide necessary guidance and advice to each grant awardee on procurement, monitor
procurement progress under the grants periodically and ensure that the agreed procurement procedures are
adhered to by the grant awardees. Procurement under the project will follow World Bank guidelines on
procurement of goods, works and services-Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (Procurement Guidelines), and Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (Consultant Guidelines).
The World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Goods will be used for ICB and the standard bid evaluation
form will be used for its evaluation. All consultant contracts will use the Bank's standard forms of contract for
consultants. A detailed procurement plan for the first year of project implementation is included in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
Procurement methods (Table A)
(1) The Study Program Grants and the DSC Grants (estimated total value: US$90.0 million and US$9.5 million
equivalent, respectively). Similar procedures to those approved by the Bank and being practiced under the
URGE and DUE projects will be used. Grant proposals will be evaluated and selected for award on a
competitive basis by the Board of Higher Education (BHE) in accordance with the procedures and the
selection criteria agreed with the Bank, upon which separate grant agreements will be signed between the
CPCU and the grant awardees. The format of the draft grant agreement was reviewed and agreed by the
Bank during negotiations. The Study Program Grant agreements could cover the financing of staff
development, equipment, civil works, technical assistance, library materials, curriculum development and
project management; and the DSC Grant agreements could include financing of specific research, education
and technical support sub-projects, including the integration of the Discipline Service Centers' materials
into coursework and its services into academic research. Each grant agreement shall specify procurement
arrangements as summarized below and that the grant awardee shall comply with any applicable
procurement guidelines of the Bank for the procurement of works, goods, and services, and shall at all times
exercise such responsibility. Procurement provisions in grant agreements indicate that (a) goods estimated
to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more per contract will be procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more each. In the case of specialized equipment with a limited
number of suppliers, limited international bidding (LIB) will be used with the agreement of the Bank; (b)
other goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$250,000 per contract will be procured through
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank; (c) goods estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract will be purchased through shopping procedures with quotations from at
least three eligible suppliers; and (d) necessary proprietary equipment, accessories, and parts with
standardization requirements and licensed intellectual property including books and journals, will be
purchased directly in accordance with Bank guidelines. Grant awardees will submit procurement plans to the
CPCU as part of their annual review. These procurement plans will be reviewed by the CPCU
specialists/panel of experts. In addition, technical audits will be carried out by independent experts annually
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 38
Country: Indonesia                                                  Project Title: Quality of tJndergraduate Education
to ensure that the agreed procurement procedures are adhered to by the grant awardees, and the findings of
these technical audits will be reported to the Bank.
(2) Good (estimated total value: US$0.8 million equivalent). Computers for the Discipline Service Centers
(estimated total value US$0.5 million) will be procured through ICB procedures. To the extent practicable,
contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost US$250,000 or more each. Locally
manufactured goods will be granted a domestic margin of preference of 15 percent of the CIF price or the
import taxes and duties which a nonexempt importer would have to pay, whichever is lower. Contract
packages for office equipment for the CPCU valued at less than US$250,000 equivalent per package, up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding US$100,000, will be awarded through NCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. For contract packages valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent each, national shopping will be used
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1 00,000 equivalent, with quotations from at least three eligible suppliers.
Goods (including books, journals and software) which should be procured as an extension of an existing
contract, must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or are of a
proprietary nature, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 (Procurement Guidelines).
(3) Technical Assistance and Services for Selection and Review of Grants (estimated total value: US$3.2
million equivalent) includes auditing, accounting, procurement and training specialists to assist BHE and the
CPCU in project implementation, evaluation, and strengthening of the New Paradigm. The consultants will
be selected and contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Consultants. Technical assistance can be
proposed to: (a) improve university management; (b) assist planning and strategy development; (c) assist
curriculum development; (d) conduct evaluation as external examiners, and e) conduct other academic
activities that directly benefit the respective SI education It is expected that the proposals to undertake these
activities will not exceed US$50,000. It is also expected that all the consultancies to be conducted under the
grants will take place under paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 which apply to quality and cost-based selection of
consultants.
(4) Training (estimated total value: US$2.0 million equivalent) includes staff training for BHE members and
CPCU staff. Training contracts will be awarded to local training providers in accordance with Government
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(5) Project Management (estimated total value: US$4.0 million equivalent) includes expenditures by the CPCU
for project monitoring and operation, comprising travel, consumable materials, and honoraria; and
expenditures by the BHE for project evaluation activities, to be met following government administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds for grants, goods and services are provided in Table B. (I) All contracts for goods
estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more per contract, and all grant agreements will be subject to
prior review; and (2) All individual consultant contracts costing US$50,000 equivalent or more and
contracts for consulting firms costing US$ 100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to prior review, and
other consultant contracts will be subject to random post review. However, all terms of reference and
single-source selection of consultants will be subject to prior review. Other contracts will be subject to
random post review. In view of the expected large number of contracts, 1 in 20 contracts will be subject to
post-review. Roughly 90 percent of the contracts will be subject to prior review, including procurement
under the grants, which will be reviewed as part of the review and approval process for Grant applications.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 39
Country: Indonesia                                                  Project Title: Quality of tindergraduate Education
The CPCU will closely monitor implementation progress under the grant agreement, in particular awardees'
adherence to the agreed procurement procedures and to the semi-annual schedule of reporting to the Bank.
One of the explicit objectives of the project is to help strengthen the capability of the Board of Higher
Education to select and award educational development and university research grants on the basis of agreed
criteria and procedures, as well as to develop the management capability of the study program participants.
The Bank's prior review requirements are intended to monitor the selection and award process and the
adherence to the agreed procedures by the grant awardees, rather than to review the details of individual
activities.
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
The proposed loan of US$71.2 million will be disbursed over a period of six years. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by the closing date of 31 March, 2004. The disbursement schedule is based on the
implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia. Agreements with the
selected study programs will be for five years for the first and second round of competition and for 4 years for
the third round. Disbursements under the project will be closely related to disbursements under the block grants
to the study programs. Such grants will be awarded in three batches: the first batch of awards, for a total of
US$30 million, is expected to be awarded in August 1997, with contract signing in December 1997. The second
batch is expected to be announced in late July 1998 and contracts are expected to be signed in November 1998.
The third batch is expected to be announced in February 1999 and contracts are expected to be signed in April
1999. Therefore, the overall project implementation period is expected to be about six years. Disbursements
estimated for FY98 are based on the initial deposit into the Project Special Account. Disbursements would be
made as shown in Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Disbursements from the loan proceeds for the following contracts and agreements will be made against full
documentation: (I) contracts for goods costing US$250,000 or more; and (2) consultants' services with
individual consultants costing US$50,000 or more and consulting firm contracts costing US$100,000 or more.
All other disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for which relevant documents
will be retained by responsible agencies and made available for review as requested by RSI staff and the Bank's
visiting missions.
Special Account:
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in the amount of US$5.0 million will be established at Bank
Indonesia or a state commercial bank, to be used by DGHE under the direction of the Director General of the
Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The Special Account would be used for all
foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment to the Special Account will be made on a monthly basis or
whenever the outstanding balance is less than 80 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 40
Country: Indonesia                                                                             Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                  Procurement Method                               Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB           NCB           Other aS   N.B.F
1. Block Grants bl
- Study Program  Grants                                                        90.0                               90.0
(58.5)                            (58.5)
- DSC  Grants                                                                    9.5                               9.5
(6.7)                             (6.7)
2.Goods
Equipment, software, books                      0.5             0.1              0.2                               0.8
and journals
(0.5)          (0.1)            (0. 1)                             (0.7)
3. Service
- Training                                                                       2.0                               2.0
(1.3)                             (1.3)
- Technical                                                                      3.2                               3.2
Assistance/services for                                                        (2.3)                              (2.3)
selection and review of
grants
4. Project Management
-CPCU  monitoring and                                                            2.7                               2.7
operation                                                                      (1.3)                              (1.3)
- BHE evaluation activities                                                      0.9                               0.9
(0.4)                             (0.4)
Total                                          0.5             0.1            108.5                             109.1
(0.5)          (0.1)           (70.6)                             (71.2)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
a!   Includes selection of Study Program Grants and DSC Grant awardees in accordance with the criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank, selection of
consultants in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, national shopping for office equipment and project management following the Government's
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
b/   The Study Program Grants and the DSCs Grants may incur procurement of goods through ICB, NCB, LIB, shopping and direct contracting, and procurement
of works through NCB. The Study Program Grants may also include selection of fellows and their placement following the criteria and procedures agreed with
the Bank.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 41
Country: Indonesia                                                                   Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure               Contract Value              Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category                 (Threshold)                   Method                   Prior Review
I. Study Program Grants    All                        Grants will be awarded on a   All Study Program Grant
and DSC Grants                                        competitive basis in        Agreements and DSC Grant
accordance with procedures   Agreements will be
agreed upon with the Bank.   approved by the Bank.
All procurement of works,    The grant awardees will
goods, and services by the    enter into contracts with
participating faculties/study   third parties for the
programs and DSCs will be   procurement of works,
in accordance with Bank    goods, and services.
guidelines and GOI
regulations.
-Civil Works                                       NCB                         The first contract entered
into by grant awardees with
third parties for civil works.
- Goods                 US$250,000                 ICB for contracts costing  All contracts entered into by
US$250,000 or more,       the grant awardees with
NCB for contracts costing    third parties for procurement
US$50,000 or more,         of goods estimated to cost
Other for contracts below  US$250,000 or more.
US$50,000.
- Consulting Services   US$50,000 for individuals    Quality ad Cost-Based    All individual consultants
and US$100,000 for firms    Selection                 contracts entered into by
grant awardees costing
US$50,000 or more and for
consulting firms costing
US$ 100,000 or more. All
TORs and single-sourced
selection of consultants.
2. Goods
(Other than grants)
Equipment, software, books,  US$250,000               ICB for contracts costing   All contracts for goods
and journals                                          $250,000 or more,           costing US$250,000 or
NCB for contracts costing  more.
US$50,000 or more,
Other for contracts below
US$50,000,
Direct contracting where
applicable.
3. Services
(Other than grants)
Technical Assistance/      US$50,000 for individuals    Quality and Cost-Based    All individual consultant
Services for selection and  and US$100,000 for firms    Selection                 contracts costing US$50,000
review of grants                                                                  or more and consulting
firms costing US$ 100,000
or more. All TORs and
single-sourced selection of
consultants.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 42
Country: Indonesia                                                                         Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Training                     N.A.                         Other                        Annual training plans for
both overseas and domestic
training for each year to be
submitted as part of annual
report for review and
discussion with the Bank.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 43
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in US$million    Financing Percentage
(1) Goods                                                  0.7           100% of foreign
not included under (3) and (4) below                                  expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory costs), and 65%
of local expenditure for
other items procured
locally.
(2) Training
not included under (3) below
(a) In-Country                                          0.6           50% of total
expenditures
(b) Overseas                                            0.5           100% of total
expenditures
(3) Study Program Grants                                  58.5           65% of grant amount
(4) DSCs Grants                                            6.7           70% of grant amount
(5) Project Management
(a) CPCU Monitoring and Operation                       1.3           50% of total
expenditures
(b) BHE Evaluation Activities                           0.4           50% of total
expenditures
(6) Technical Assistance                                   2.0           70% of total
not included under (3) and (4) above and Services                        expenditures
for selection and review of grants
(7) Unallocated                                            0.5
Total          71.2
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                        Page 44
Country: Indonesia                                               Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Annex 7
Quality of Undergraduate Education
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$281,000         $125,500 (as of
5/15/97)
B. Project Schedule                            Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    7 months
First Bank mission (identification)          07/23/1996          07/23/1996
Appraisal mission departure                  03/10/1997          03/13/1997
Negotiations                                 04/07/1997           04/14/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                09/17/1997
Prepared by: Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) within the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC)
Preparation assistance: Japan Grant Funds in the amount of US$450,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included: John Newman (Task Manager, EA3PH);
Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (Senior Higher Education Specialist, HDD) Karin Nordlander (Sr.
Counsel, LEGEA); and Christopher Smith (Operations Officer, RSI). Consultants who
worked on the project included: Luisa Masutti, Robin De Pietro, and Linda Parker.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 45
Country: Indonesia                                                  Project Title: Quality of tindergraduate Education
Annex 8
Quality of Undergraduate Education
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
A Project Implementation Plan is being prepared by the Bank team and the GOI project preparation team (PPT)
on the basis of an initial Project Proposal Document prepared by the PPT.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Proposed Quality of Undergraduate Education Project-Back-to-Office Report of the Initial Preparation
Mission, 10 September, 1996.
Proposed Quality of Undergraduate Education Project-Back to Office Report of the Preappraisal Mission,
7 January, 1997.
C. Other
GOI Project Preparation Team, Project Proposal Document.
Bagyo Y. Moeliodihardjo, "Introducing the New Paradigm in Higher Education, " Abstract, 1996.
Bagyo Y. Moeliodihardjo, "University Research and the Industry, " paper prepared for a seminar on Improving
Quality in Higher Education, University of California, Berkeley, 1991.
*Including electronic files.
Form



Page 46
Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Country: Indonesia                                                     Annex  9
Indonesia at a glance                                                                  2/20/97
Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 East  middle-
Indonesia      Asia  income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                         193.3      1706    1,153
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                                980       800    1 670                   Lifeexpectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                                190.1      1,365    1 926
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (I%)                                          1.6        1.3      1.4      GNP               \                  Gross
Labor force (%)                                          2.5        1.4      17       per         -                       prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1959)                               capita                           enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ot populafion)                17
Urban population (% of total populaton)                   34        31        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          64        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  51        40        41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)                 39         23       22
Access to safe water (% of population)                    63         77
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      16         17                   -      Indonesia
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age population)     114        117      104
Male                                                   116       120       105                Lower-middle-icomegroup
Female                                                 112       116       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions USS)                             32.1     B7.2      201.2    232.8
Gross domestic investmenYGDP                   23.7     26.1       31.5     31.6
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP   23.2     22.2       26.0     25.8              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     25.9     27.8       32.3     32.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     23.4     22.8       28.2     28.2
Current account balance/GOP                    -3.4     -2.2       -2.6     -3.3
Interest payments/GDP                           1.0      2.3        2 5      2.2      Savings           -           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 35.8     42.1       53.6     44.2
Total debt service/exports                     15.1     28.8       29.9     30.0
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..       .       51.3
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..    187.7          ..                  Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                        Indonesia
GDP                                   7.0       7.9      8.2        7.6      6.6                Lower-n/ddle-/ncome group
GNP per capita                        4.3       6.2      5.8        6.0
Exports of goods and nfs              -1.0      9.3      8.0        9.6      7.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                            Growth rates of output and investment t%t
Agriculture                                    30.2     23.2       16.9      15.5     20
Industry                                       33.5     35.9       40.9     39.9
Manufacturing                                 9.8      16.0      23.9      23.3     1x 
Services                                       36.3     40.9       42.2     44.6
Prvate consumpton                              65.1     60.4       59.6     60.7              91   92    93   94   95    wo
General govemment consumption                   9.0     11.8        8.1      7.0                     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services       21.0     20.5       25.2     25.2
1975-85  1986.96      1995      1996 
(average annual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     4.2      3.4        4.0      3.0      30
Industry                                        7.0      9.9       10.3      9.4
Manufacturing                                14.5      11.2      11.1       9.9     20O
Services                                        9.0      8.1        7.9      7.6
10
Prvate consumption                              9.8      6.9        8.7      7.3
General govemment consumption                  10.5      4.8        34       3.5   o                  .r         - _  - _
Gross domestic investment                      12.1     10.7       150       8.3              91   92   93   94   55   wo
Imports of goods and non-factorservices         8.8      9.4       158       8.7                   Exports  ---Imports
Gross national product                          6.5      7.9        7.4      7.5    1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 47
Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Country: Indonesia
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                         Inftation t%)
(% change)
Consumer pnces                                  19 1      4.7        5 1       8 3
Implicit GDP deflator                           11.2      4.3        94       11 8                                              C
Government finance
(% of GOP)                                                                              092    93    94    ss    s
Current revenue                                          19.2       15 5      15 0
Currentbudgetbalance                               .      6.0        6.4       64                  -GDPdef  -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -3.2        -0.2       0 7
TRADE
(,miions US$)                                1975      1985       1995     1996        Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                ..  18,823     44,792   53,286       60,000
Fuel                                                  12,e04     8,638   11,771       50 Do
Rubber                                                  714       1,554    2.589
Manufactures                                           2,287    23,487   32,964
Total imports (cif)                                . 14,056       41,286   51 .347
Food                                                    812        868       997      21l
Fuel and energy                                  .    2,870      3,841    4,333           o
Capital goods                                    .     5,394     16,712   21,114            -
90  g1  92  93  94  9s  96
Exportprice index (1987=100)                       .      121        137
Import pice index (1987=100)                       .       85        127         ..                  Exports   Iii mports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                          .      143        108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Current account balance to GOP ratio t%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services       6,981    19,371    51,812   59.474    1
Imports of goods and non-factor services       6,775   17,840     50,086   57.967           90   61   92   93 i
Resource balance                                207     1.531      1,726    1,506
Net factor income                             -1,342   -3,542     -7,457    -8.935
Net current transfers                            27        88        487      -337      2
Current account balance,
before official transfers                   -1,108    -1,923     -5,244   -7,766      -3
Financing items (net)                           257       962      6,621    12.733
Changes in net reserves                         851       961     -1,377   -4,968      -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)             592   13,184      26,139   27,519
Conversion rate (/ocaVlUSS)                    4150   1,110 6    2,249.6  2,337.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1994      1995
(millions USS)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          11,498   36,715     96.543  107,831
IBRD                                           57    3,590      12,008   12 503                                A
IDA                                           318       844        776      756                              12503 9
Total debt service                             1,060    5,823     14,272   16,419              223507   D
IBRD                                            2       384      2,156     1,875                 .       ,   ,.    750
IDA                                             2        12         26       26
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                                69       136        218      249
Official creditors                            515       980      1,615    1,101                           X     '   31221
Private creditors                            1,749      154      1,967    2,428               F
Foreign direct investment                     476       310      2,109    4,500            34251
Portfolio equity                                0         0      3,672    4,873
Wordd Bank program
Commitments                                   311     1,068      1,538    1,312       A - IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 164       777      1,184    1,044       B-IDA     D-Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            0       133      1,259      975       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     164       644        -76       69
Interest payments                               3       262        922      926
Net transfers                                 160       382       -998      -857
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                          2120/97
Note: Govemment finance and trade fiscal year (April to March). 1996 trade data are prolections and are not comparable with historcal data.



Page 48
Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Country: Indonesia                                       Annex  10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original amount in USS millions             between expected
Project     Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                and actual
ID       Credit No.   Year  Borrower               Purpose                  IBRD         IDA  ancellations Undisbursed   disbursements'
NumberofClosed Loans: 151:/Credits: 48
Active Loans
ID-PE-3873     L31580    1990   GOI    Second Secondary Education               154.20                              19.45             19.45
ID-PE-3960    L32090    1990   GOI    Gas Utilization                            86.00                              35.03             35.03
ID-PE-3868     L32190    1990   GOI    Second Jabotabek Urban Developmen        190.00                              24.96             24.64
ID-PE-3977     L32460    1991   GO       Third Jabotabek Urban Development      61.00                               17.70            17.27
ID-PE-3959     L32820    1991   GOI    Fertilizer Restructuring                 221.70                   0.24       10.30              9.84
ID-PE-3981     L33020    1991   GOI    Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Dev.    125.00                  21.50        18.10            39.60
ID-PE-3943     L33040    1991   G01       East Java/Bali Urban Development      180.30                              22.08            22.08
ID-PE-3912     L33050    1991   GOI    Yogyakarta Upland Area Developmen         15.50                   1.30        0.92              2.23
ID-PE-3922     L33400    1991   GOI    Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Developme      100.00                               4.10              3.16
ID-PE-3975     L33490    1991   GO       Power Transmission                    275.00                 103.40       11.27            114.67
ID-PE-3928     L34020    1992   GOI    Agricultural Financing                   106.10                              44.93             43.63
ID-PE-3966     L34310    1992   GOI    Third Non-Formal Education                69.50                               7.89              2.19
ID-PE-3940    L34480    1992   GOI    Primary Education Quality Improvem         37.00                               17.64            12.64
ID-PE-4012     L34540    1992   GOI    BAPEDAL Development                       12.00                               0.94              0.44
ID-PE-3860     L34640    1992   GO       Treecrops Smallholder                  87.60                              35.13             16.03
ID-PE-3997     L34820    1992   GOI    Fourth Telecommunications                375.00                             187.12             57.12
ID-PE-3949     L34900    1992   GOI    Third Kabupaten Roads                    215.00                               2.35              2.35
ID-PE-3969     L34960    1992   GO       Primary School Teacher Development     36.60                               12.48             9.93
ID-PE-3916    L35010    1992   GOI    Suralaya Thermal Power                    423.60                 100.00      115.14             61.54
ID-PE-3970     L35260    1993   60       Financial Sector Development          307.00                  39.81       41.69             81.50
ID-PE-3914     L35500    1993   GOI    Third Community Health & Nutrition        93.50                              40.56              5.56
ID-PE-4006     L35790    1993   GOI    E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads             155.00                              26.63             17.64
ID-PE-4009     L35860    1993   GOI    Integrated Pest Management                32.00                              19.58             12.08
ID-PE-3999     L35880    1993   GOI    Groundwater Development                   54.00                  18.94       15.42              5.76
ID-PE-4018     L35890    1993   601       Flores Earthquake Reconstruction       42.10                               4.55              4.55
ID-PE-4007     L36020    1993   GOI       Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II         104.00                              72.42             57.42
ID-PE-3990     L36290    1993   GOI    Water Supply & Sanitation for Low In      80.00                              52.96             27.96
ID-PE-3985     L36580    1994   GOI    National Watershed Mgmt and Conser        56.50                              46.40              8.10
ID-PE-3945     L37120    1994   GOI    Second Highway Sector Investment         350.00                             231.80            106.80
ID-PE-3952     L37210    1994   GOI    Skills Development                        27.70                              21.10             19.75
ID-PE-3998     L37260    1994   GOI    Surabaya Urban Development               175.00                             138.72             56.52
ID-PE-4020     L37320    1994   GOI    Fifth Kabupaten Roads                    101.50                              42.11             -1.14
ID-PE-4010     L37420    1994   GOI    Dam Safety                                55.00                              43.13             13.53
ID-PE-3890     L37490    1994   GOI    Semarang-Surakarta Urban Developm        174.00                             130.84             38.75
ID-PE-4017     L37540    1994   GOI    University Research for Graduation St     58.90                              43.92              9.52
ID-PE-3937     L37550    1994   GOI    Integrated Swamps                         65.00                              48.26              8.11
ID-PE-3910     L37610    1994   GO6       Sumatera & Kalimantan Power           260.50                             238.25             68.75
ID-PE-3954     L37620    1994   GOI    Java Irrigation Improvements and Wtr     165.70                             121.11             25.11
ID-PE-3984     L37920    1995   GOI    Land Administration                       80.00                              67.10             11.07
ID-PE-4019     L38010    1995   GOI    Second Accountancy Development            25.00                              20.89             11.99
ID-PE-3988     L38250    1995   GOI    Second Professional Resource Develo       69.00                              47.72              2.71
ID-PE-3979     L38450    1995   GOI    Second Rural Electrification             398.00                             334.87            113.91
ID-PE-3951     L38540    1995   GO6       Kalimantan Urban Development          136.00                             102.76             33.26
ID-PE-3972    L38860/6   1995   GOI    Second Agriculture Research Manage        63.00                              58.68             -2.32
ID-PE-3968    L38870/6   1995   GOI    Book & Reading Development               132.50                             128.36             -2.14



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 49
Country: Indonesia                                                                         Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Difference
Original amount in US$ millions             between expected
Project     Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                and actual
ID       Credit No.  Year  Borrower                Purpose                   IBRD        IDA  ancellations Undisbursed   disbursementse
ID-PE-34891   L38880/6   1995   GOI    Village Infrastructure                     72.50                               9.81           -37.29
ID-PE4001      L39046    1995   GOI    Telecommunications Sector Modemiz        325.00                             324.15             54.15
ID-PE-3965    L39050/6   1995   GOI    Fourth Health                             88.00                              85.25             -1.75
ID-PE-39754    L39136    1995   GOI    Second Technical Assistance for Infra      28 00                              27.00             6.50
ID-PE-3978     L39720    1996   GOI    Industrial Technology Development         47.00                              45.89             16.95
ID-PE-4021     L39780    1996   GOI    Second Power Transmission and Distr      373.00                             373.00             34.70
ID-PE-4003     L39790    1996   GOI    Second Teacher Training                   60.40                              58.29             10.84
ID-PE-39643    L39810    1996   GOI    STD/AIDS                                   24.80                              24.30             5.75
ID-PE-4008     L39840    1996   GOI    Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Developm        27 00                              25.78              2.08
ID-PE4011    L40070    1996   GOI    Sulawesi Agriculture Area Developme         26 80                              25.58              0.82
ID-PE-4014     L40080    1996   GOI    Kerinci Seblat ICDP                       19 10                               18.20             1.00
ID-PE-39312    L40170    1996   GOI    Second E. Java Urban Development          142 70                             139.70            22.90
ID-PE-41896    L40300    1996   GOI    Human Resource Capacity Building           20 00                              19.41             0.92
ID-PE-37097    L40420    1996   GOI    E. Java Junior Secondary Education         99 00                              96.50              1.00
ID-PE-4004     L40430    1996   GOI    Higher Education Support                  65.00                              62.50              1.49
ID-PE-4016     L40540    1996   GOI    Strategic Urban Roads                     86.90                              83.40              2.50
ID-PE-3987     L40620    1997   G01       C. lndonesia Secondary Education      104.00                             101.50              0.50
ID-PE-41894    L40950    1997   GOI    Sumatra Secondary Education                9800                               95.00            -3.00
ID-PE-40521    L41000    1997   GOI    Second Village Infrastructure             140.10                             140.10             3.00
ID-PE-36053    L41050    1997   GOI    Second Sulawesi Urban Development         155.00                             155.00             5.00
ID-PE-4026     L41060    1997   GOI    Railway Efficiency                       105 00                             105.00
ID-PE-42540    L41250    1997   GOI    Iodine Deficiency Control                  2S.50                              28.50
ID-PE-35544    L41320    1997   GOI    Solar Homes Systems                        20(00                              20.00
TOTAL                                                                        8.160,40     Qo         285,20     42791.21         1L353.79
Active Loans                    Closed Loans                  Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)      3,083.99                         14,748.47             17,832.46
Of which repaid                      46.28                         6,986.41               7,032.69
Total now held by IBRD anid IDA     7,828.92                          7,789.58             15,618.50
Amount sold                             0.00                            88.08                  88.08
Of which repaid                       0.00                            88.08                  88.08
Total undisbursed                   4,791.21                            27.53               4,818.74
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 50
Country: Indonesia                                                                       Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Indonesia - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3/31/97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                            Disbursed
IFC                                                 IFC
FY Approval     Company                  Loan        Equity      Quasi       Partic           Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
1971            Unitex                    0.00        0.35         0.00        0.00            0.00        0.35        0.00         0.00
1980/87         Semen Andalas             9.25       10.02         0.00        9.98            9.25       10.02        0.00         9.98
1982/84/93      Saseka Finance            0.00        0.38         0.00        0.00            0.00        0.38        0.00         0.00
1986            PT Bali                   0.22        0.00         0.00        0.00            0.22        0.00        0.00         0.00
1988            Manulife                  0.00        0.32         0.00        0.00            0.00        0.32        0.00         0.00
1989            PT Agro Muko              3.36        2.20         0.(0        3.64            3.36        2.20        0.00        3.64
1989/91/94      PT Astra                  0.00        12.16        0.00        0.00            0.00       12.16        0.00        0.00
1990/91/93/95    PT Indo-Rama            37.48        8.72         0.00       61.68           37.48        8.72        0.00       61.68
1991            LYON-MLF-lbis             2.12        0.00         0.00        2.12            2.12        0.00        0.00        2.12
1991            PT Argo Pantes           15.00        13.00        0.00       22.71           15.00       13.00        0.00        22.71
1991            PTlndaci                  0.40        0.00         1 83        0.00            0.40        0.00         1.44       0.00
1991            PT RIMBA                  7.35        0.60         0.00        4.17            7.35        0.60        0.00        4.17
1991            SEAVI Indonesia           0.00         1.50        0 00        0.00            0.00        1.50        0.00         0.00
1992/95         PTBakrie Kasei           50.13        3.00         9.63       77.38           50.13        3.00        9.63       77.38
1992/94/96      PTKIAKeramik             25.83        9.15         0.00       85.91           17.34        4.05        0.00        58.40
1992/94         PT Mitracorp              0.00        19.99        0.00        0.00            0.00       19.99        0.00         0.00
1992            PT Swadharma             23.33        0.00         0.00       39.83           23.33        0.00        0.00       39.83
1992/95         PT Viscose               32.13        0.00         0.00       46.43           32.13        0.00        0.00       46.43
1993/96         PTBBL Dharmala           15.45        0.00         0.00       35.73           15.45        0.00        0.00        35.73
1993            PTNusantara               4.00        0.00         0.00       12.00            3.58        0.00        0.00        11.67
1993            PT Samudera               1.91        5.00         0.00        5.84            1.91        5.00        0.00         5.84
1994            KDLC Bali                15.00         1.14        0.00        0.00           15.00        1.14        0.00         0.00
1994            Prudential Asia           0.00        6.75         0.00        0.00            0.00        4.19        0.00         0.00
1994            PAMA (Indonesia)          0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00            0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1994            PTPAMA                    0.00        0.71         0.00        0.00            0.00        0.71        0.00         0.00
1994            PT Saripuri               7.56        0.00         0.00       20.00            7.56        0.00        0.00       20.00
1995            PT Bakrie Pet            11.08        2.00         0.00        0.00           11.08        2.00        0.00         0.00
1995            PT Bakrie Pipe           18.57        0.00         9.50        0.00           18.57        0.00        9.50         0.00
1995            PT Bunas Finance          8.55        0.00         0.00        4.50            8.55        0.00        0.00         4.50
1995            PT Citimas Captl          0.00         1.31        0.00        0.00            0.00        1.31        0.00         0.00
1995            PT Hotel Santika          9.00        0.00         5.00        0.00            4.50        0.00        5.00         0.00
1995            PT KIA Serpih            1500        6.35         0.00       55.00           15.00        6.24        0.00        55.00
1995            PT Panin Finance          6.00         1.93        0.00        8.00            6.00        1.93        0.00         8.00
1996            PTDhiarmala              20.00        0.00         0.00       15.00           20.00        0.00        0.00         5.00
1996            PTGleneagles              8.30        0.00         3.60       10.30            8.30        0.00        3.60        10.30
1996            PTPramindo Ikat          25.00         8.18       25.00      300.00            0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00
1997            PT Astra Graphia          0.00        2.53         0.00        (.00            0.00        2.53        0.00         0.00
1997            PT Kalimantan            20.00        15.00        0.00        0.00            0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Portfolio:        392.02      132.29       54.56      820.22          333.61       101.34       29 7       482.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
1995            PT INDO-RAMA RI           0.00        2.50         (.00        0.00
1996            PANIN FINANCE 11          6.00        0.00         (.00        4.00
1996            PANIN 11 - BLINC          0.00        0.00         (.00        4.00
1996            PT ASIANAGRO             40.00        0.00         (.00       40.00



Page 51
Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Project Title: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Country: Indonesia
1997           PT BANK NISP             5.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commit    51.00       2.50        0.00       48.00



Indonesia
Quality Undergraduate Education                                                                           g n
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies                                                          0 .
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)                                                                          2 
Study
Program   Discipline                                                               CX
Quality     Service      Project                                                   C X
Improvement   Center    Management    Total                                          X
0C
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                                             173.88      469.53       190.19     833.60
C. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                             214.26            -            -     214.26
Domestic                                          1.358.22             -            - 1358.22
Subtotal Non Degree Training                          1,572.47            -            -   1,572.47
D. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                             237.28            -            -     237.28
Domestic                                             707.48        74.91       238.91   1.021.29
Subtotal Technical Assistance                           944.76        74.91       238.91   1,258.57
E. Overseas Short Visit                                 366.93            -            -     366.93
F. Library Grants                                             -    9,500.00            -   9,500.00
G. Study Program Grants                              90,000.00             -           -  90,000.00
H. CPCU Monitoring and Operation
1. CPCU
Honoraria                                               -           -      490.86      490.86
Consumables                                             -           -      275.17      275.17
Travel                                                  -           -      280.49      280.49
Monitoring                                              -           -    1.661.61   1.661.61                            g
Subtotal CPCU                                              -           -    2,708.13   2,708.13
I. Evaluation
1. Operation                                        
Honoraria                                         149.59            -            -     149.59
Consumables                                       534.95            -            -     534.95
Travel                                            213.13            -            -     213.1                            o
Subtotal Operation                                   897.67            -            -     897.67
2. Service for Selection and Review of Grants    1.922                 -            -   1.9922.95 ,                                _
Subtotal Evaluation                                   2820.61             -            -   2820.61 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        95,878.65   10,044.44    3,137.22 109,060.31
Taxes                                                       203.33       42.73        42.35     288.41                           (9
Foreign Exchange                                          1,295.81    7,981.52       194.38   9,471.70
Mon May 05 12:31:08 1997
i M
co
CD
0
C
g
m
C
0.
D)
Co
E
0.
5-1 Expenditue Accounts byComponents   Toals IncludingContingencie



Indonesia                                                                             0)0
Quality Undergraduate Education                                                                   0 X
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs                                                           c S
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Study                                                                            C X
Program   Discipline                            Physical                          g
Quality     Service      Project              Contingencies
Improvement   Ce2nter 9_ Management     9t        a    Amount                       X' 
C,
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                                            150.00      432.00       170.00     752.00    7.0  52.64                         =
C. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                             200.00           -            -     200.00       -      -
Domestic                                           1.Q090.00          -            -  1Q.090.0Q  -_          -
Subtotal Non Degree Training                          1,290.00            -           -   1,290.00       -      -
D. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                             221.00           -            -     221.00       -      -
Domestic                                             582.40       72.00       195.00     849.40       -      -
Subtotal Technical Assistance                           803.40       72.00       195.00   1,070.40       -      -
E. Overseas Short Visit                                 337.50           -            -     337.50       -      -
F. Library Grants                                            -    9,500.00            -   9,500.00       -      -
G. Study Program Grants                              90,000.00            -           -  90,000.00       -      -
H. CPCU Monitoring and Operation
1. CPCU
Honoraria                                              -           -      378.00      378.00      -       -
Consumables                                            -           -      216.00      216.00      -       -
Travel                                                             -      216.00      216.00      -       -
Monitoring                                             -           -    1.276.00             --.2-.-- _  _
Subtotal CPCU                                             -           -    2,086.00   2,086.00       -       -
I. Evaluation
1. Operation
Honoraria                                         115.20           -            -     115.20      -       -
Consumables                                      414.00            -            -     414.00      -       -
Travel                                           168.00            -            -     168.00   _          -
Subtotal Operation                                   697.20           -            -     697.20       -      -
2. Service for Selection and Review of Grants    1.550.00             -            -   1.550.00      -       -
Subtotal Evaluation                                   2.247.20            -           -   2.247.20       -      -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      94,828.10   10,004.00    2,451.00 107,283.10        -  52.64
Physical Contingencies                                      10.50       30.24        11.90      52.64       -      -
Price Contingencies                                      1.040.05       10.20       674,32   1.724.57    0.1   1.89
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       95,878.65   10,044.44    3,137.22 109,060.31    0.1  54.53
Taxes                                                      203.33       42.73        42.35     288.41    1.7   4.96
Foreign Exchange                                         1,295.81    7,981.52       194.38   9,471.70    0.5  43.24
Mon May 05 12:31:04 1997
-0
-D
C
CD
c
tD
C
0
4-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components -Base Costs



Indonesia                                                                          g X
Quality Undergraduate Education                                                                  .
Project Cost Sunary                                                                      -o
All Detailed Tables                                                                       2
t     % Total              o X
(RD. Million)                        (USS '000)              Foreign    Base               oe
Local     Foreiqrn    Total        Local      Foreic[n    Total    Exchange  Costs                 -
00
1. Study Program Quality Improvement 210,255.38   2,728.53 212,983.91  93,613.26   1,214.84  94,828.10                1        88
2. Discipline Ser-vice Center             4,607.00  17,861.99  22,468.98   2,051.20   7,952.80  10,004.00            79         9               o
3. Project Management                   5.107.18        397.77  5.504.95   2.273.90        177.10   2.451.00           7        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                       219,969.56  20,988.29 240,957.84  97,938.36   9,344.74 107,283.10              9       100
Physical Contingencies                        23.65       94.58      118.23       10.53       42.11       52.64        80        -
Price Contingencies                        3.682.81      190.58   3.873.39   1.639.72         84.85   1.724.57          5        2
Total PROJECT COSTS                        223,676.02  21,273.45 244,949.46  99,588.61   9,471.70 109,060.31              9      102
Mon May 05 12:31:02 1997
.(
0
CD (
M
C_
m
3C
3-1 Project Cost Summary ~ ~ ~    ~



Indonesia                                                                           ) m
Quality Undergraduate Education                                                                 .6
Components by Financiers                                                                      a
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)                                                                   >
- -
International Bank                                                                                      0 X
for Reconstruction                                                             Local   Duties           3 
and Development      The Government               Total            For.     (Excl.      &            - O
nt It         A      Amount       %-        Amount        t        Exch.    Taxesl   Taxes               0
1. Study Program Quality Improvement 62,426.81          65.1 33,451.84        34.9  95,878.65         87.9 1,295.81 94,379.51 203.33              C
2. Discipline Service Center             7,078.06       70.5  2,966.38        29.5  10,044.44          9.2 7,981.52  2,020.19  42.73
3. Project Management                    1.673.45       53.3  1.463.77        46.7   3,137.22          2.9   194.38  2.900.50  42.35
Total Disbursement                         71,178.32       65.3 37,882.00        34.7 109,060.31        100.0 9,471.70 99,300.20 288.41
Mon May OS 12:30:59 1997
CO
C.,
(D
0r1
0
2-1 Components by Financiers                                                         :3



Indonesia                                                                            C0
Quality Undergraduate Education
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers                                                                    >
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)                                                                    5 -
International Bank                                                                                      a
for Reconstruction                                                               Local   Duties        .-
and Development       The Government               Total             For.     (Excl.      &            o
Amount        t       Amount         %       Amgunt         %        Exch.    Taxes)    Taxes           c
3
A. Study Program Quality Improvement Grants /a 58,500.00             65.0 31,500.00        35.0  90,000.00          82.5         - 90,000.00        -C
B. DSC Quality Improvement Grants                    6,650.00        70.0  2,850.00        30.0   9,500.00           8.7 7,600.00  1,900.00         -
C. Civil Works 
D. Equipment                                           666.88        80.0    166.72        20.0      833.60          0.8   661.02       96.72  75.86
E. Degree Training
F. Non Degree Training
Overseas                                            581.19      100.0           -          -      581.19          0.5   452.38    128.81         -
Domestic                                            679.11        50.0    679.11        50.0   1,358.22           1.2   116.30  1.241.91         -
Subtotal Non Degree Training                         1,260.29        65.0    679.11        35.0   1,939.40           1.8   568.68  1,370.72         -
G. Technical Assistance
Overseas                                            237.28       100.0          -          -      237.28          0.2   185.03       52.25       -
Domestic                                            714.91        70.0    306.39        30.0   1.021.29           0.9    89.69    931.60         -
Subtotal Technical Assistance                          952.19        75.7    306.39        24.3   1,258.57           1.2   274.72    983.85         -
H. Services for Selection and Review of Grants  1,346.06             70.0    576.88        30.0   1,922.95           1.8   332.46  1,415.49 174.99
I. CPCU Monitoring and Operation                     1,354.06        50.0  1,354.06        50.0   2,708.13           2.5    23.21  2,659.87  25.04
J. Evaluation                                           448.83       50.0    448.83        50.0      897.67          0.8    11.61    873.54  12.52
Total                                                71,178.32        65.3 37,882.00         34.7 109,060.31        100.0 9,471.70 99,300.20 288.41
\a Include DRK in GOI portion
Mon May 05 12:30:56 1997
I(0
CD
C)
0
_s
0
c
0.
1-1 Disbursement Accounts by Financiers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



MAP SECTION






. THAILAND                                          @                                                                                                                                INDONESIA
B..d. 4.h                                                                                                                                      PHILIPPINES                                  QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE
0Nd}\ MALAYSIA                                                                                      EDUCATION PROJECT
M  don AfALAYSIA                          *                                                                                                                                 f ~   (3 PROVANCE H  EADQUARTERS
,                                                      ) J                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPTAL
P'ROVINCE BOUNDARIES
(                                         fMALAYSIA                                                                                                     _    .  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\                                                          MrJn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vodo
i_  SINGAPORE                      >           /*        P_
D DKTIJAKARTA                                                                                PlgosoJYPr
JAWABARAT
lABA WENGAH 
SD I WOGYAKARTA
IOWA TIMUR                                                                                      P
f            LfLMPUNG             M                                                                 B--- 3                                                K-nd-,                                                                                                  I |
n BENGKULU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
SUMATERA SELATAN
RIALJ
SUMATERA BARAT
SUMATERA UTARA                                                TA
D IACEH                                  I~~~~~~*  AKART
o KALMANTAN BARAT                               Br        ES om
KIALIMANATAN TENIGAH                                      B-d,9
KALIMANTAN SELATAN
KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                                                S  o o
SULAWESI TENGAHISk4
ESULAWE9 UTARA
SULAWESI SELATAN
SULAWESI TENGGAR-
41     NUSA TENGGARA EARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          co\ 
NUSA TENGGARATtMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;aO,ST
MALUKU
IRIAN JAYA                           6  ,,=,            B,,d,P 
TJMOR TIMUR                  A,,  hi  i                        pf
2'~"~' l'av            on"cae AfUST b orALIA 









IMAGING
Report No.:          16575  IND
Type:      PAD



