                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                          Report No: 30005

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-41930)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$71.2 MILLION

                                    TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                          INDONESIA

                                            FOR A

                            Quality of Undergraduate Education Project




                                       December 30, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective October 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (IDR)
                                   IDR1.00 = US$ .000011
                                   US$ 1.00 = 9097.5 IDR

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                   April 1  March 1

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS GOI National Planning Agency
BHE       Board of Higher Education
CPCU      Central Project Coordinating Unit
DIK       Routine Budget (Recurrent)
DIKS      Supplementary Routine Budget (Recurrent)
DIP       Development Budget (Capital)
DRK       Self-generated Income
DSC       Discipline Service Center
DGHE      Directorate General of Higher Education
DUE       Developing Undergraduate Education (ID 4043-IND)
GOI       Government of Indonesia
GPA       Grade Point Average
IDR       Indonesian Rupiah
IRQUE            Increasing Relevance & Quality of Undergraduate Educ (ID 50741-SRI)
LPIU      Local Implementation Unit
MOE       Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF       Ministry of Finance
QUE       Quality of Undergraduate Education (ID 4193-IND)
Skripsi   Senior undergraduate thesis ­ capstone exercise required for university graduation
UI        University of Indonesia
UMPTN     National University Entrance Exam
WBOJ      World Bank Country Office Indonesia (Jakarta)

                             Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                           Country Director     Andrew D. Steer
                    Sector Manager/Director     Christopher Thomas/Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Richard Hopper

                                         INDONESIA
                             Quality of Undergraduate Education


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P040195                                                  Project Name: Quality of Undergraduate Education
Team Leader: Richard R. Hopper                                       TL Unit: HDNED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Quality of Undergraduate Education                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-41930
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (88%); Central government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/22/1996                                     Effective: 09/24/1997                09/24/1997
     Appraisal: 03/13/1997                                         MTR: 02/15/2001                  02/03/2001
      Approval: 06/17/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/MOE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis De Tray
Sector Manager/Director:        Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Samuel S. Lieberman
Team Leader at ICR:             Richard R. Hopper                              John Lincoln Newman
ICR Primary Author:             Richard R. Hopper; Susiana
                                Iskandar; Christopher Smith


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project had two objectives: (a) to improve the quality of undergraduate study programs in national
priority fields; and (b) to promote a more cost effective allocation of public funds by directing resources to
high priority fields at both public and private universities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives were not revised, although expectations were modified somewhat due to the
cancellation of Component B.

3.3 Original Components:

Component A: Improving Quality through Competitive Grants to Undergraduate Study Programs in Public
and Private Universities ($94.8 million planned cost, $66.31 actual expenditure)

Component B: Improve Discipline Service Centers through Direct Investment and Performance-Based
Awards ($10.0 million planned cost, $0.22 actual expenditure). In response to a request from the Finance
Ministry of the GOI, this component was cancelled.

Component C: Support to the CPCU ($2.5 million planned cost, $1.12 million actual expenditure)


3.4 Revised Components:

There were no revised Components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was not subject to assessment or rating for Quality at Entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         The overall achievement of the project objective is rated as satisfactory. This rating is impressive
given the period of the project's implementation which was marked by severe and unanticipated national
economic crises, political unrest, terrorist attacks, economic and social reactions to the spread of SARS in
East Asia. During the entire project period, the implementation of the project was well planned, steady,
and focused on meeting the stated objectives. .

         Objective 1: To improve the quality of undergraduate study programs in national priority
fields

         Grants were awarded to 46 undergraduate study programs in national priority fields as planned;
quality gains were achieved at all participating universities. These gains were indicated by: (a)
improvements in beneficiary student final test scores over project baseline scores, and (b) improvements in
beneficiary student final test scores over non-beneficiary student test scores by comparing matched samples



                                                       - 2 -

(students from project financed programs vs. students from like-study programs not funded by the project).
Across the 46 grant-supported study programs, 68 percent of the undergraduate university students showed
a moderate to substantial (greater than five percent) increase in their final over baseline scores, while 28
percent of were at about the same level (as the baseline), and 4 percent fell below. In all cases of matched
sample comparisons, grant recipients demonstrated higher average scores on primary indicators with
smaller standard deviation and greater increases in final over baseline scores than nonrecipients. However,
consolidated data on the attainment of project performance indicators revealed that achievement as
measured against these targets was modest.

         At project completion, about 50 percent of the grant recipients met three of the four primary
performance targets. Although 27 percent of preliminary applications received were from private
institutions, no private programs were selected for final awards. This situation may have been due to the
lack of willingness by the Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) and grant proposal review
panelists to channel public funds into the private higher education sector, or to the severe budget
constraints caused by the economic crisis. It should be noted that as the Indonesian economy regained
momentum, the DGHE independently introduced several competitive grant programs modeled on those
funded by the QUE Project. In one of the new, fully GOI-funded schemes, 67 of the 122 grants awarded
(55 percent) went to private higher education institutions. Though outside of the project, this DGHE
initiative demonstrates the current willingness of the DGHE and review committees to make public awards
to private institutions for educational improvement in national priority fields, and it shows some GOI
commitment to the sustainability of competitive funding schemes to support improvements in higher
education.

         Objective 2: To promote a more cost effective allocation of public funds by directing
resources to high priority fields at both public and private universities

         The QUE Project made a substantial contribution to institutional change in the higher education
sector of Indonesia. This contribution was found at both the institutional (university program) level, and
within the DGHE where it promoted a more cost effective and transparent allocation of public funds within
the sector.

         National competitive financing procedures for public funds were a primary focus of both this
project (QUE) and an earlier project, (Development of University Education - DUE). This initiative was
strongly supported by the academic community; they welcomed a more equitable allocation of public
resources for higher education as well as greater public scrutiny over the distribution and use of such
funds. The implementation of these financing mechanisms have substantially increased the percentage of
the higher education development budget awarded to institutions. Furthermore, it is commonly agreed that
the cost effectiveness of these allocations are significantly enhanced through open competition rather than
traditional "negotiated" or "historic" line-item budgeting methods. This marks a major shift in public higher
education finance from the early 1990s when less than 2 percent of the annual development budget for
public universities was allocated on a competitive basis. This is seen clearly in FY2003-2004, when
approximately 30 percent of public university budget allocations were awarded competitively. This is
double the project's performance target of 15 percent. The DGHE adoption of these reforms may be
further seen in the widespread application of the competitive grant scheme for myriad purposes. These
schemes were - and remain at the time of this report - financed with public funds and the administration of
such schemes is based on the lessons learned through the implementation of the DUE and QUE projects.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                       - 3 -

Component A: Improving Quality through Competitive Grants to Undergraduate Study Programs in
Public and Private Universities. The overall achievement of the Component A is rated as satisfactory.

l Staff Development. This project contributed substantially to university staff development by funding
  more than 180 overseas postgraduate study opportunities, and more than 600 staff to attend and
  present papers at international conferences. Targets for these overseas staff development initiatives
  were exceeded (by 5 percent and 15 percent respectively), while expenditures were lower than budgeted
  (5 percent to 10 percent) indicating that funds were used more efficiently than anticipated. Bank
  supervision reports and university annual reports in the latter years of the project frequently cite
  qualitative gains through improved staff attendance, increased staff/student contact hours, and an
  increase in student participation in staff research. Such gains can be linked to research grants and
  teaching grants funded by the project, as well as expanded internet access to all students along with
  improved libraries and laboratories. Monitoring reports from the Board of Higher Education (BHE)
  and auxiliary data collected by many of grantees indicate that facilities were improved and the staff
  utilization rate of such facilities were generally good to high. This sub-component was rated as
  satisfactory.

l Equipment. This project provided over 17,300 units of equipment, thus exceeding the 16,500 units
  originally planned. Periodic BHE reports indicate that the introduction of this equipment has
  contributed to gains in internal efficiency. The BHE has also noted that there is a high level of
  institutional satisfaction with the equipment items provided. This suggests that the procurement
  specifications for these items were largely appropriate. This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

l Civil Works Rehabilitation. The QUE project provided renovation and rehabilitation of over 28,000
  square meters of classrooms, student facilities (such as student welfare offices and canteens),
  laboratories, libraries, computing centers (with connectivity to the internet), and staff/student meeting
  rooms. This figure exceeds project estimates by 3 percent. These renovations were aimed at
  improving student learning outcomes through the enhancement of learning facilities, which in turn
  allow for smaller class sizes, greater staff/student interaction, computer and internet access for all
  students, along with improved conditions in libraries and laboratories. BHE reports and data collected
  by many of grantees indicate that the renovated facilities are adequately designed and that the
  utilization rate of these facilities by students and faculty is good to high. This sub-component is rated
  as satisfactory.

l Technical Assistance. Both project expenditures for foreign technical assistance and the
  frequency/duration of services fell about 10 percent below levels forecast during project preparation.
  Such a shortfall appears to be the result of factors outside of the control of the project: frequent travel
  restrictions were imposed on foreign technical specialists due to multiple health and security advisories
  making it difficult to procure some of the anticipated technical assistance. There were nevertheless
  positive outcomes. These include: (a) a number of strong linkages formed with overseas experts, (b)
  curricula and teaching methods modified to incorporate international best practices, and (c) university
  staff training in the utilization of laboratory equipment and in research techniques - with some of this
  training focused on ways to involve students in research activities.

  Domestic technical assistance figures were also less than forecast, about 2 percent below anticipated
  targets. A factor contributing to this minor shortfall was the project's application of a stringent
  conflict-of-interest policy which prohibited the involvement of academic staff associated with a
  grant-recipient university from providing technical assistance; this caused difficulty in securing staff


                                                     - 4 -

  with appropriate experience and seniority from outside the 11 premier universities receiving the grants.
  This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

l Library Materials. The project supported the acquisition of about 27,000 text and journal titles to
 university holdings of grant-winning institutions. These investments exceeded planned targets by about
 12 percent. During the procurement process, efficiencies were realized as staff were given access to
 the internet; such access allowed staff to search for the availability of current editions and publications
 - an innovation which facilitated the ordering process. Data collected by most universities indicated that
 there was an increase in student utilization of library facilities during the life of the project. The task
 team also interviewed students during supervision missions and found that almost all interviewed
 students reported increased access to academic texts and journals - and many attributed enhanced
 access to the reduction of time necessary for each student to complete the required Skripsi (the final
  research paper required for an S1 degree), and this could be associated with a reduction in the students'
  average time to degree. This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

l Curriculum Development. Grant-winning study programs were allowed to on-grant funds in four
 areas to support currciculum development. These included: (a) teaching/lecture note grants, (b) project
 grants, (c) research grants, and (d) policy grants. During the second year of project implementation the
 DGHE eased requirements for nationally centralized curricula to give greater freedom to individual
 universities in determining the content of academic programs for key disciplines. Centralized core
 curricular requirements were consequently minimized thereby shifting the curriculum focus more
 toward to local content. Such a shift offered significant opportunities for the project to support
 curriculum changes in all of the participating universities.

 Lessons learned from the policy, project and research grants helped the DGHE to revise the
 requirements for Skripsi and laboratory practica. Teaching grants had an impact on the way in which
 subjects were taught, enhancing student participation through the introduction of student-centered
 learning methodologies which gradually replaced traditional passive learning. These changes supported
 improvements in the pedagogy of than 400 subjects in the QUE-supported universities. Lesson note
 grants supported development of learning materials for more than 200 subjects, increasing the amount
 of written learning materials available to students for subjects which had previously relied exclusively
 on lectures and note-taking.

 About 90 percent of the planned number of sub-grants were awarded. Initially, the applicant-to-award
 ratio was set at 3-to-1 in the selection process, but this became too restrictive and grant disbursement
 in these categories had been initially somewhat slow. In the latter stages of project implementation, in
 consultation with Bank review missions, the applicant-to-award ratio was relaxed after a proposal
 review indicated quality would not be compromised by such a modification in selection procedures.
 This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

l Project Management. Management services were provided by the Local Project Implementation Units
  (LPIUs) located within the respective grant-winning academic departments of the recipient universities.
  During project implementation the strongest LPIUs disseminated and openly shared lessons learned in
  organization, management and planning with other LPIUs. Procurement and financial reporting were
  problematic in the early stages of the project as the LPIUs were staffed with academics who lacked the
  necessary administrative skills and experience to manage such large operations. As the project
  progressed, regular workshops were offered by the Central Project Coordinating Unit (CPCU) and the
  Indonesia World Bank Country Office in Jakarta (WBOJ). During these workshops, better
  coordination was developed between the LPIUs and the CPCU and implementation issues were


                                                    - 5 -

    clarified, discussed and effectively addressed by both parties. This resulted in improvements in project
    implementation. These improvements were documented in the independent technical and financial
    audits which, in the latter stages of project implementation identified fewer qualifications and
    comments on procurement and financial performance than in any other project (across all sectors) in
    the Bank's portfolio of Indonesia projects. This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

l BHE Process for Proposal Review and Selection. The BHE scheme for the selection of grantees ­
    from a review of pre-proposals, to full-proposals, to site visits, to grant award - has become so
    effective that it is now the procedural model used internally by the DGHE for the allocation of its own
    development budget. The process continues to leverage the capacity built within the CPCU and the
    LIPUs to implement new GOI-sponsored competitive grant schemes. The national and international
    peer review process also applied best practice conflict-of-interest policies which are regarded by the
    local academic community as being fair and transparent. The Indonesian model of competitive funding
    for higher education financing has received international recognition. The Government of Sri Lanka
    has engaged Indonesian experts to help that country develop the capacity to implement similar
    competitive grants through a World Bank-sponsored project (IRQUE). This subcomponent is rated as
    highly satisfactory.

l Proposal Preparation Workshops. In order to encourage high-quality proposals for the various grants
    available through the project, proposal preparation workshops were held by the BHE and CPCU.
    Workshop instructional materials prepared by BHE and the CPCU were comprehensive and provided
    clear guidelines, reporting templates, and a comprehensive explanation of the proposal review process.
    The preparation phase for the latter two rounds of competition were well attended with workshops were
    held centrally and regionally. The number and high-quality of proposals received across all three
    rounds of competition are evidence of effective preparation workshops. The workshops are rated
    highly satisfactory.

Component B: Improve Discipline Service Centers through Direct Investment and
Performance-Based Awards

        Component B was designed to improve Discipline Support Centers (DSCs) established in 8
universities with the assistance of two earlier World Bank projects (HEDP I and II). These DSCs were
intended to provide a centralized holding of library materials for 12 science disciplines. The component
was to be implemented in two stages: (1) installation of computing facilities and internet connectivity to
make DSC materials more accessible through the introduction of on-line service, and (2) DSC service
expansion of the first phase initiatives.

        The GOI decision to reduce the country's overall foreign borrowing occurred prior to the
implementation of the second stage of this component. As a result, a substantial amount of the loan
allocation for this component was cancelled (of the US$7.10 million loan funds allocated for this
component, US$6.92 million of the loan was canceled and only US$0.18 of the loan allocated for this
component was spent.) Prior to the cancellation of the component, computing facilities and internet
connections were established in the eight target universities. The impact of these investments was not
assessed during the project or afterwards. Since the majority of the planned investments were not made, the
component is likely to have a negligible impact of the sector, however, since the GOI decided to cancel the
remainder (and majority) of the component, from an implementation perspective, the rating must be
considered satisfactory.

Component C: Support to the CPCU


                                                      - 6 -

         The CPCU served as an overall coordinating body for the project and in this role provided a link of
communication among the DGHE, BHE, LPIUs and the Bank. The CPCU also followed through on
recommendations from Bank supervision missions, frequently conducting workshops and seminars
immediately after supervision to ensure a wider and more rapid dissemination of important information and
lessons learned to all grantees rather than only to those institutions which were directly supervised during
Bank site visits. From 2000 the CPCU began a regular review of LPIU draft procurement plans; such a
monitoring role provided an early detection point for possible procurement problems, and as vital
implementation support to the LPIUs. The unique expertise and capacity developed by CPCU is highly
valued within the DGHE and the BHE; as a result, CPCU staff now assist in the planning and development
of similar competitive grant schemes within the sector. The capacity developed within the CPCU helped to
inform both policy debate and subsequent reforms in the higher education sector. The overall achievement
of the Component C, is rated as highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The QUE Project has had a significant impact on institutional development on two levels: (1) at
the university department level where there have been significant inputs to improve instructional quality,
and (2) within the DGHE where institutional development is clearly evidenced by the wholesale
internalization of competitive funding mechanisms for higher education finance in Indonesia ­ using the
same implementation methodology pioneered by QUE. Such a continued insistence on competitive funding
for higher education in Indonesia has fundamentally changed the way in which the DGHE allocates the
development budget to universities. The DGHE has requested other donors to familiarize themselves with
proposal selection process of the QUE Project, and to build competitive funding mechanisms into the
design of their development support, as was seen with the recent Asian Development Bank (ADB) project
in higher education. This ADB project has adopted similar competitive procedures, and has built its project
on the foundation of implementation capacity that was established to support the DUE and QUE projects.

         The QUE Project is widely viewed as a contribution to the of the broader DGHE effort to fully
implement the ongoing 10-year development plan known as the Higher Education Long-Term Strategy
(HELTS). The DGHE has drawn and continues to draw heavily on young academics who have gained
implementation experience from participation the QUE Project. Many of these academics will continue to
contribute to overall DGHE policy and strategy development. At the university level, the core principle of
autonomy with accountability, which was central to the QUE Project, has been extended beyond the
recipient university study programs to other departments and faculties. In all universities, it is now
common to find project outcomes put to use. For example, teaching and research grants are now
commonly used as a means of staff development and improving the teaching/learning environment, and a
number of universities have developed their own competitive funding programs (e.g. University of
Indonesia). With the move to decentralize the Government budget process, regional governments have also
become an increasing source of funding for higher education. In Lampung (South Sumatra), for instance,
the regional government has adopted the competitive funding mechanisms from the QUE Project as the way
to determine disbursement of its entire IDR4 billion annual budget for higher education.




                                                      - 7 -

         When one looks at the proliferation of competitive grant programs in higher education, it seems
appropriate to question the potential risk that may be associated with such expansion. To date, the DGHE
has found that the use of competitive grants has many more positive than negative consequences. The
quality of program designs and subsequent implementation has improved. There is more clarity and
fairness in the appropriation of funding. The cost effectiveness of service delivery has improved and,
thanks to these improvements, it is now easier to justify requests for increased funding when necessary.
The institutional impact is rated as satisfactory.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The onset of the Asian Economic Crisis roughly coincided with project effectiveness and combined
with the turbulent political transition following the fall of the Suharto regime in the first year of
implementation. This situation significantly reduced economic growth across all sectors. The construction
industry was particularly hard hit and, as a result, employment rates for many types of engineering
graduates went down. Such severe economic vagaries influenced some of the best and brightest high school
graduates to consider alternatives to engineering as their first career choice discipline. Only in the final
years of the project did the industry begin showing signs of recovery.

         Engineering was one of the GOI/DGHE national priority disciplines supported by the QUE project.
Therefore, the economic climate adversely affected the outcomes of the project where it negatively
influenced two of the primary performance indicators: (a) UMPTN scores (which as a performance
indicator of program effectiveness), and (b) waiting time to first employment.

         Further economic and political uncertainty in 1998 and 1999, and subsequent national and
international security concerns created unforeseen and lingering difficulties in attracting foreign technical
assistance to Indonesia. Despite these rather dramatic events and influences, the implementation of the
project remained generally on course. Where problems arose the Borrower and the Bank worked
collaboratively to move the project ahead.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         The DGHE and the BHE recognized the potential impact of competitive funding on both
educational quality and institutional development. Therefore they strongly supported the continued
implementation of the project despite national budgetary pressures to cut project components and activities.
This unwavering commitment throughout QUE implementation was an important to the project's success.
The DGHE and the BHE also recommended that the GOI enact legislation to give universities more
autonomy. With the passage of this new legislation, significant institutional change has become a realistic
option in higher education. This situation provided an environment within which the project was able to
achieve a wider impact than originally had been envisioned.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Throughout the life of the project the DGHE provided strong counterpart support. Highly
competent staff were assigned to work in the project at all levels. This commitment provided the project
with the manpower to effectively meet its objectives. The DGHE also supported the use of the project to
train and give experience to young, carefully selected professionals so that human resources capacity would
be built for the long term in higher education. These young professionals have already begun to serve as
the foundation of expertise used to plan and implement other competitive funding schemes within the


                                                      - 8 -

Ministry, the GOI and, as mentioned previously, in other countries. The DGHE also ensured that adequate
counterpart funding was available as needed and consequently, expanded its own budget to allow for the
introduction of several other competitive grant finance programs modeled on the successes pioneered by
this particular World Bank project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

          The project became effective on September 24, 1997, with overall project costs estimated at
US$109.1 million. Of this amount, the Bank was to provide US$71.2 million in loan financing and the GOI
was to provide US$37.9 million (equivalent) in counterpart funding. On August 26, 1998 the GOI
canceled US$$9.89 million of the loan as part of its national priority to reduce Indonesia's overall debt
burden due to the Asian Economic Crisis. This action reduced the available loan funds for the project to
$61.31 million. The actual Bank loan disbursement was US$55.73 million. The project closed on March
30, 2004 with an undisbursed loan balance of US$5.58 million. The actual GOI financing disbursed for
the project was US$11.92 million. This made for a total actual project cost (loan plus counterpart
disbursements) of US$67.65 million (out of the orginally estimated US$109.1 million)

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

          Long-term sustainability of many institutional changes introduced by the project is likely.
Although the short- to medium-term sustainability of the project supported study programs also seem
likely, there is some concern about the institutions' lack of capacity to replace depreciated equipment. when
necessary. In these programs, the project design addressed sustainability by introducing selection criteria
which tied the size of grants to a demonstrated ability, by the selected universities, to absorb the
investments and maintain them. The design also allowed staff who were to be the end-users to be directly
involved in the procurement process, an element which both BHE and Bank mission reports identified as
facilitating a greater sense of "ownership", which in turn, contributed to the likelihood of program
sustainability. Moreover, the financial management and procurement capacity of the LPIUs remains intact
and continues to function within the each recipient university, providing continued transparency and
accountability for funds, and in many instances, serving as an example for the organizational behavior
within other university departments. During project implementation deposits to a matching fund were
required. These deposits were drawn from each recipient university's self-generated income (DRK) fund.
The matching fund was required as a trigger for subsequent tranche disbursement from the loan. This
ensured an ongoing commitment to the maintenance and operation of investments and it demonstrated a
financial capacity by each university to support the target programs. In the closing stages of the project, the
DGHE issued a circular requesting university rectors to continue their institutional commitment of
self-generated university revenue towards the operation and maintenance costs of the project investments at
their university. The circular further recommended that a skeleton staff of the LPIU be retained within
each university to provide continued direct oversight of the project investments. The project investments
themselves added a further dimension to the likelihood of sustainability as they increased the recipient study
programs' capacity to raise self-generated income.

          While these amounts are likely to be sufficient for operation and maintenance of the university
programs, they are not likely be sufficient to cover the depreciation and replacement costs of the equipment
provided through the project. This concern is particularly important for computer hardware and software
that has a high depreciation and obsolesce rate. The DGHE has yet to prepare a consolidated national
action plan and at the time of this report only a limited number of universities had prepared such plans.



                                                       - 9 -

There is a concern about the long-term sustainability as depreciation takes its toll on the equipment and
when emerging technologies force the programs to upgrade their equipment to support curriculum
enhancements.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         The DGHE has made a decision to convert project innovations to regular operations within each of
the grant-winning institutions. To do this, the DGHE has initiated a number of national programs modeled
after the DUE and QUE project supported programs. All of these programs are funded from the DGHE's
development budget. The DGHE also made a commitment in its 10-year higher education development
plan to continue expanding competitive and performance-based budgeting. The plan sets the target for
competitive public funding of universities to reach 50 percent of the public budget allocation for these
institutions. The precise mechanisms to be employed are still in under consideration. Associated with this
effort, the DGHE is currently implementing a four-tiered program of competitive funding. The DGHE's
A1 Competitive Grant Program awards 150 two-year grants annually. Each grant will be for about
IDR250.0 million. The A2 Competitive Grant Program focuses on improving internal efficiency and
awards 40 three-year grants annually, each of these grants is equal to IDR500.0 million. The new A3
Competitive Grant Program focuses on improving external efficiencies (improved market outcomes for
graduates) and it awards 40 three-year grants annually, each worth about IDR800.0 million. Finally, the
new B Competitive Grant Program focuses on promoting excellence and international competitiveness and
awards 4 three-year grants annually, each worth about IDR1.5 billion. DGHE has also revamped the
structure of BHE and regularized its operation; moreover the Directorate has taken the opportunity to
incorporate the experience gained through implementation of the QUE Project by young academics from
the LPIUs to assist DGHE national policy and strategy formulation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         Overall the World Bank's lending performance is rated as satisfactory. The design of the QUE
Project was closely linked to the major sector issues identified in the CAS. At the time of project
identification the Borrower had initially sought a simple continuation of the format of the previous two
World Bank loans for higher education - essentially a "third time slice." After some discussion, the
Borrower and the Bank agreed to plan and implement an enhanced project design that would utilize
international best practices in competitive financing of higher education. The identification mission was
able to produce a comprehensive investment proposal that did not change much during the subsequent
stages of project preparation and implementation. The project proved to be both suitable and responsive to
GOI development strategy. Its design withstood much of the negative effects of the financial and security
crisis discussed previously; its successful completion, along with the DGHE's immediate replication of its
postive outcomes at a national level suggests that the project was well identified, prepared and
implemented. This project clearly met the Borrower's need to strengthen the quality of public services and
promote international competitiveness amongst the study programs at the strongest universities.

7.2 Supervision:

         Overall the Bank's Supervision performance is rated as satisfactory. As planned, regular missions
were conducted biannually throughout the life of the project, although there was some minor disruption in
1998 and 1999 due to the economic and political crises. Task management of the Project from the Country
Office in the early years of implementation allowed for frequent informal dialog and meeting opportunities



                                                     - 10 -

with the DGHE as the implementation capacity was built and as the QUE project beneficiary programs
were launched. These frequent opportunities for continued dialog with the higher education sector provided
opportunities for the LPIU and Bank's task team to jointly address techncial issues as they arose, rather
than wait until they became outright problematic. This hands-on approach improved the overall
implementation of the project.

         The supervision missions were generally well staffed and drew on extensive implementation, higher
education, procurement, economic and financial management experience. Bank supervision missions took a
pro-active approach in coping with the lack of LPIU experience with Bank procurement guidelines. The
missions provided technical assistance to the multiple LPIUs on many issues, and participated in
workshops to strengthen LPIU capacity in those areas. The supervision team also conducted a
comprehensive review of procurement plans at the start of each contract year. This approach was time
consuming and involved a significant amount of correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, yet
was at times perceived as a contributing factor to procurement delays. The lack of serious procurement
problems and the strong procurement capacity that was developed during the project is evidence that this
pro-active approach was effective. Indeed, this strong procurement capacity still exists in both the CPCU
and the LPIUs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Adequate steps were taken to ensure
continuity through four changes in task management and all supervision missions had at least one member
who had been on the previous mission. Strong relationships were fostered with the implementing agencies
in the 46 grant-winning study program sites throughout 11 universities, as well as with the CPCU and the
BHE which contributed to a collaborative atmosphere of mutual problem solving.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         Overall preparation of the QUE Project by the Borrower was highly satisfactory. Manuals for
proposal preparation, national and international peer review procedures were put in place for selection of
grantees, and dissemination of information to prospective applicants mirrored international best practice.
The DGHE assigned motivated and highly experienced staff to project preparation, and allocated
substantial resources to publicize the impending project broadly throughout the academic community.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         Government performance during implementation was satisfactory. Despite budgetary pressures,
counterpart funds at the requested levels were available in a timely manner. Although national priorities
dictated partial cancellations of some elements of the QUE Project, such cancellations were not directed
toward the project's central component of competitive block grants to university study programs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         CPCU. The CPCU played a crucial role as the focal coordination point for the QUE Project,
sitting between the LPIUs, BHE, DGHE and the World Bank. Overall the CPCU deftly balanced
coordination, monitoring, support and capacity building for the 46 study programs while maintaining
implementation autonomy of the grantees. The CPCU in collaboration with the World Bank Country Office
in Indonesia organized procurement and financial management workshops and repeated these throughout



                                                    - 11 -

the life of the QUE Project to build capacity.

         Several supervision missions did observe that while the CPCU collected adequate data and required
annual reports from the LPIUs, it was not able to provide an adequate consolidated analysis of the
disparate data and reports that were generated. Such an analysis would have provided a valuable
perspective of trends across regions and across academic disciplines. The performance of the CPCU is
rated as highly satisfactory.

         LPIU. Procurement and financial management capacity were strengthened during the course of
project implementation. Generally LPIUs were diligent in their collection of performance indicator data,
but were less successful in demonstrating the analysis of that information, or in incorporating the findings
into their decision-making process. All of the LPIUs were able to recruit a pool of young academics who
were able to gain knowldege and experience while administering the QUE project grants. Many of these
individuals then contributed to the DGHE medium- and long-term policy and strategic planning. Some of
the QUE implementation staff have received international recognition for their experience in moving toward
university autonomy, and developing financial accountability schemes. Overall implementation of the
QUE-grants by the 46 LPIUs is rated as satisfactory.

         BHE. The BHE established and implemented the grant selection process for the project. This
process was well received by the participating institutions, as they viewed it to be fair, transparent, and
important to the development objectives of their respective institutions. However, the BHE did not
participate in the direct administration of grant awards. Instead, the BHE took on the crucial role of
project monitoring and evaluation, while it continued to provided strategic and policy support to DGHE.
For this reason, the performance of the BHE was rated as highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         The QUE Project was a central piece of a broader agenda within higher education reform piloting
innovations consistent with the "New Paradigm" and as such received strong and consistent support from
the Borrower. The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Policy and Design Lessons:


l The mechanism of competitive funding for higher education can be effectively designed to have two
    positive benefits. The first benefit is accountability in the use of public funds: both the process of
    selecting grant winners and the process of grant administration are fully transparent with many checks.
    The second benefit is seen in the flexibility of the funding mechanism itself. The competitive funding
    mechanism can be adjusted at any time to better target the purpose of the grants and the eligibility
    criteria so that public funds to areas of national priority can be effectively delivered. Of course, the
    sustainability of the model requires strong government commitment to financing in this manner, strong
    capacity at the central and institutional levels, and careful construction of the competition process to
    make it sufficiently rigorous, yet accessible. Future World Bank projects should consider competitive
    funding as a financing mechanism not only to encourage transparency/accountability, but also to
    provide flexibility to the government to adjust priorities as needed.

l While the actual cash investment underlies impact on student achievement, the nature of how



                                                      - 12 -

  investment funding flows to the higher education institution underlies institutional development and
  serves as an agent of change in organizational behavior. Future projects should pay as much attention
  to the way in which institutions receive their funding as to the selection of investments. The QUE
  project results suggest a "bottom-up" planning approach with the direct involvement of end-users
  (department heads, senior teaching faculty, etc.), would serve to enhance institutional autonomy while
  increasing accountability.

l The sustainability of institutional impact of competitive funding mechanisms in higher education are
  closely linked to financial management and procurement capacity at both the central level (CPCU) and
  at the study program level (LPIU). Such capacities should be recognized as a priority within each
  institution and should be developed over time by university management. Future projects should ensure
  that the necessary procurement and financial management capacity is available not only to support
  project implementation, but also to support the overall development objectives.

l Innovations in higher education finance at the university level are more likely to be successful where a
  project also addresses regulatory and legislative changes necessary to foster a supportive environment
  at the national level.

l Empowering young academics in institutional decision making can accelerate institutional change, but
  long-term strategies need to be in place to fully capitalize on their continued contribution. Since such
  empowerment accelerates their professionial promotion prospects there is a risk of capacity drainage.
  Retention strategies for junior academics with strong capacity should be clarified. Longer-term
  strategies will consider ways not only to maintain their involvement, but also to develop their role as
  champions for change.

l While mutual agreement on the nature of performance indicators, and standardization of data collection
  techniques are important, they are insufficient in themselves to effect lasting institutional change. It is
  necessary to have the skills, experience and motivation present to analyze the data and incorporate the
  findings into decision-making processes within the institutions. Identification of motivated champions
  of analysis, as well as recognition and support for their efforts is key to maintaining appropriate
  analytic capacity.

Implementation and Operational Lessons:

l Early and continuous training in procurement and financial management within implementation units is
  necessary to avoid delays and to ensure sustainability of innovations in higher education finance.

l A pro-active, problem-solving approach by the Bank in the early stages of procurement planning within
  implementing agencies may consume time and resources, but it is effective in minimizing potentially
  large procurement problems in the longer term.

l A central project coordinating unit (CPCU) contributes significantly to efficient project implementation
  to a large number of beneficiaries. The CPCU contribution would be enhanced by adding capacity for
  data analysis to observe more carefully national trends and lessons learned from monitoring and
  evaluation.

l Because strong institutional development a key benefit of implementing competitive-funding
  mechanisms in higher education, the World Bank and future borrowers should endeavor to develop



                                                   - 13 -

     indicators to better monitor qualitative aspects of organizational behaviors that can help identify the
     loci of institutional change and better measure factors such as institutional autonomy, transparency,
     accountability, and efficiency.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The QUE funds have been utilized to support 46 study programs which are spread across 11 public
institutions. The analysis on the quality of students input reveals that these grantees are amongst the best
study programs in the country. The project has the primary objective of improving the quality of
undergraduate education in meeting the demand of national as well as global market through the
improvement of 5 main strategic issues namely:
Relevance, Academic atmosphere, Internal management and organization, Sustainability, and Efficiency
and productivity or popularly known as RAISE.

The process to select the grantees has been coordinated by the Board of Higher Education (BHE) in close
coordination with the Central Project Coordination Unit (CPCU). The monitoring and evaluation process
have also been organized by the BHE and was initially under the collaboration with the Quality Assurance
Agencies of the United Kingdom. Various procedures and good practices were developed and perfected
during the selection as well as monitoring and evaluation processes of the QUE project. Such good
practices have been very much adopted by the Directorate General for Higher Education in implementing
its funding policies.

The rigorous monitoring and evaluation processes involving national as well as international peers clearly
reveal that the project has been by and large successfully implemented where desirable outputs, outcomes
and impacts are generally met. Notable outputs are improved quality of human resources, state of the arts
equipment, teaching and learning materials, better physical facilities etc. Considerable outcomes are
primarily apparent in terms of improved external efficiency indicated by graduates capacity in meeting the
job market demand in country as well as overseas, more efficient and productive internal process
demonstrated by shortened length of study, improved GPA, etc. Although it may be too naïve to single out
the QUE as the primary stimulating factor, during the period of this project significant institutional
capacity building was particularly apparent amongst the higher education institutions receiving the grants.
Significant elements of the institutions are attentively watching the QUE implementation with keenness. In
addition, various good practices engendered by the QUE such as teaching and research grants, policy
studies and lecture notes awards have also improved the overall academic atmosphere especially at the
grantees' level.

Notwithstanding the aforesaid success story, the project has also incurred some unexpected drawbacks
including some internal contention within the institution receiving the grant. The allocation of grants to
study program without a proper schemes of coordination at the institution level is one such contention. In
addition, the choice of using a study program which is apparently a non-resource unit as the grantee (a
non-traditional approach to program funding in Indonesia's universities) has also created some problems.
The latter is particularly apparent in the case of a department running more than one study program.

All in all, the implementation of the new paradigm in resource allocation through a proposal-based block
grant scheme, implemented in this project, has been considered as a fresh breeze in the higher education
development. This approach has a number of desirable features which among others are:

a) it is rooted at the institutional needs and capacity to operate, utilize and manage due to the fact that it is



                                                      - 14 -

based on proposed plan submitted by grantees
b) it has undergone selection process which minimizes risk for misallocation
c) the introduction of commitment fee to be made available by grantees has improved sustainability of the
invested resources
d) it links investment with program activities which are directly geared towards quality improvement
e) closely monitored by peers which attest academic issue rather than merely administrative matters

Finally, cognizant of the importance of this project within the overall framework of higher education
development in this country, the following direction is commendable for future consideration:

l At some grantees resource sharing becomes a crucial problem. There is confusion on whom the new
    investment shall belong to. Although the Head of Department or the Dean is the ex-officio director,
    dispute still arises when sharing of resources becomes an issue. It is recommended, therefore to select
    the department or higher level resource unit, instead of the study program unit as preferred the grantee
    in the future.

l Strict adherence to the contract is critically important and penalty should be enforced in case of
    noncompliance, including for example the commitment to provide the counterpart funding of certain
    portion. Grantees that cannot meet the promised targets without acceptable reasons should be
    penalized.

l Suitable measures for attesting the international quality for an undergraduate education needs to be
    rigorously and clearly defined. The use of GRE test is considered far from adequate for the reasons that
    such test is not available for all fields of disciplines and is more appropriate for preparing students who
    are seeking graduate education.

l Need to develop systematic sustainability programs to ensure continuity of the project paradigm across
    higher education system (not only within individual programs involved in the project but also to the
    system as a whole)


l More autonomy and flexibility at the institution level especially in conjunction with resource
    management and investment planning should be promoted and be geared towards organization health.
    This should include the simplification of procurement procedures while maintaining the overall
    efficiency and effectiveness of the project implementation

l In order to sustain and further develop the endeavor, follow up program to promote excellence which
    has already initiated by the DGHE through the provision of Scheme B Funding (regional focus,
    international competitiveness, etc.) need to be seriously thought of and planned. This opens up
    opportunities for the donors to chip in.

l It is expected, in the foreseeable future there shall be some form of legal reform on government
    financial structure which is accordingly responded by the donors to support the implementation of the
    block grant as expected; including integrated reporting and evaluation procedures.

l Future projects should consider what kinds of sanctions or punishments can be meted out when
    grant-winning study programs do not meet their performance indicator targets. Consideration should
    be given for alternative ways to measure institutional impact and not just student output indicators.




                                                       - 15 -

l On the side of the World Bank, from experience with the QUE Project, the DGHE finds that greater
    continuity of the Task Team Leader assigned to the project is critical to its consistent and coherent
    implementation. This also helps with the consistency in application of procurement regulations.

l Training of the LPIU staff in procurement and financial management should start as early as possible.


l Moreover, from experience the DGHE finds that it is best to have the TTL resident in Jakarta, given
    that a DC-based TTL often incurs delays in approval of non-objection letters.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                  Consolidated Performance Indicator Data for Four Primary Indicators
                                            Final Achievement Against Baseline

                                                 Negative Performance                                   Positive Performance
                                                       Outcome1                                                Outcome3
                                                                                   Steady State2                                   Data
 PERFORMANCE                                                                                                                        not
   INDICATOR               ISSUE           Substantial         Moderate                                 Moderate       Substant   available
                                            Decrease           Decrease                                 Increase3         ial
                                                                                                                        Increase
                                                                                                                            3


                                             x > 10%        10% < x < 5%           5%< x < 0%         10% < x < 5%      x > 10%


                      Quality at Entry           2                  2                   19                 14              5         4
                             &
      UMPTN            Attractiveness
                                                4%                4%                  41%                 30%             11%       9%


                         Quality of              0                  0                   11                 17              18        0
                       Instruction &
        GPA               Process
                                                0%                0%                  24%                 37%             39%       0%


                          Internal               0                  1                   12                 10              23        0
                         Efficiency
 Duration of Study
                                                0%                2%                  26%                 22%             50%       0%


                          External               1                  1                    5                  3              27        9
  Waiting time to        Efficiency
 first Employment
                                                2%                2%                  11%                  7%             59%      20%


 1  Number and Percentage of Cases where Final Performance Indicator was less than Baseline Indicator

 2 Number and Percentage of Cases where Final Performance Indicator varied less than 5% from Baseline Indicator

 3  Number and Percentage of Cases where Final Performance Indicator was greater than Baseline Indicator




                                                             - 17 -

                              Batch 1 QUE Study Program Grants
                     Meeting or Exceeding Mid and Final Performance Targets
                                            n = 16
                       UMPTN                  GPA                Duration      Waiting Time

At Mid-term                9                   12                    8               9
At Final                   3                   8                     6               4
Midterm Not Reported       1                   2                     2               5

Final Not Reported         8                   3                     3               5


                              Batch 2 QUE Study Program Grants
                     Meeting or Exceeding Mid and Final Performance Targets
                                            n = 14
                        UMPTN                  GPA              Duration       Waiting Time

At Mid-term                 6                    6                  7               9
At Final                    2                    6                  4               8

Midterm Not Reported        0                    2                  3               3
Final Not Reported          2                    3                  2               5


                              Batch 3 QUE Study Program Grants
                     Meeting or Exceeding Mid and Final Performance Targets
                                            n = 16
                        UMPTN                  GPA               Duration      Waiting Time

At Mid-term                9                    14                   7              10

At Final                   9                     7                   6               7
Midterm Not Reported       1                     0                   1               2
Final Not Reported         3                     1                   2               5


                           Consolidated QUE Study Program Grants
                     Meeting or Exceeding Mid and Final Performance Targets
                                            n = 46
                        UMPTN                  GPA               Duration      Waiting Time

At Mid-term            24 (55%)             32 (76%)             22 (55%)       28 (78%)
At Final               14 (42%)             21 (54%)             16 (41%)       19 (61%)
Midterm Not Reported    2 (4%)                4 (9%)             6 (13%)        10 (22%)

Final Not Reported     13 (28%)              7 (15%)             7 (15%)        15 (33%)




                                          - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Improving Quality through Competitive Grants to          94.80           66.31            0.699
Undergraduate Study Programs in public and private
universities.
B. Improve Discipline Service Centers through Direct        10.00             0.22           0.022
Investment and Performance-Based Awards
C. Support to the CPCU                                       2.50             1.12           0.448

Total Baseline Cost                                        107.30           67.65
 Price Contingencies                                         1.80
                        Total Project Costs                109.10           67.65
                  Total Financing Required                 109.10           67.65


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.50              0.10         0.20          0.00         0.80
                                  (0.50)           (0.10)      (0.10)          (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         5.20          0.00         5.20
Consultants and Training          (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.60)          (0.00)       (3.60)
4. Project Management             0.00              0.00         3.60          0.00         3.60
CPCU and BHE                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.70)          (0.00)       (1.70)
5. DSC                            0.00              0.00         9.50          0.00         9.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.70)          (0.00)       (6.70)
6. QUE Grants                     0.00              0.00        90.00          0.00         90.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (58.50)         (0.00)      (58.50)
   Total                          0.50              0.10       108.50          0.00        109.10
                                  (0.50)           (0.10)      (70.60)         (0.00)      (71.20)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.34             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.34
                                  (0.34)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.34)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         1.01           0.00        1.01



                                                - 19 -

   Consultants and Training               (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.84)            (0.00)           (0.84)
   4. Project Management                   0.00               0.00              1.12             0.00              1.12
   CPCU and BHE                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.89)            (0.00)           (0.89)
   5. DSC                                  0.00               0.00              0.01             0.00              0.01
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (0.01)
   6. QUE Grants                           0.00               0.00             65.17             0.00             65.17
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (53.65)            (0.00)           (53.65)
      Total                                0.34               0.00             67.31             0.00             67.65
                                          (0.34)             (0.00)           (55.39)            (0.00)           (55.73)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Improve quality through    62.40        33.40                    54.65         11.66                 87.6      34.9
competitive grants to
undergraduate study
programs in public and
private universities
B. Improve Discipline          7.10         3.00                     0.18         0.04                   2.5      1.3
Serrvice Centers (DSC)
through direct investment
and performance-based
awards
C. Support the CPCU            1.70         1.50                     0.90         0.22                  52.9      14.7




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Costs and Benefits were not calculated for this project.




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/23/1996                 7    Senior Economist (1)                 S               S
                                             Higher Education Specialist (2)
                                             Higher Education Consultant (1)
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
                                             Financial Management Spec. (1)
                                             Operations Officer (1)
              11/15/1996                4    Senior Economist (1)                 S               S
                                             Higher Education Specialist (2)
                                             Operations Officer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal                 6    Senior Economist (1)                 S               S
              3/13/1997                      Higher Education Spec. (1)
                                             Higher Education Cons. (1)
                                             Procurement Spec. (1)
                                             Financial Management (1)
                                             Operation Officer (1)
                                                                                  S               S

 Supervision

              08/29/1997                3    SENIOR ECONOMIST (1)                 S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12/09/1998                4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)               S               S
                                             OPERATIONS (2)
                                             HIGHER EDUCATION (1)
              06/24/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
              06/24/1999                1    CONSULTANT (1)                       S               S
              03/17/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              07/29/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S               S
                                             HIGHER ED SPECIALIST (1)
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)
              10/12/2001                2     CONSULTANT (1)                      S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              06/14/2002                3    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
                                             SR. GENERAL EDUCATOR (1)
              01/31/2003                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
                                             OPERATIONS SPEC. (1)
              08/08/2003                5    EDUCATION SPEC, TTL (1)              S               S
                                             SEN. EDUCATION SPEC. (1)



                                              - 22 -

                                            CONSULTANT (1)
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            DATA PROCESSING
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               01/26/2004              4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)            S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
                                            IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                            (1)

 ICR
               9/13/2004              3     HIGHER EDUCATION                  S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              n/a
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   n/a                      485,605
  Supervision                             n/a                      378,945
  ICR                                     n/a
  Total                                   n/a                      864,550




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The following documents are filed in the ImageBank, the project's IRIS4 folder, or the
SAP/Portal systems:


                             List of external evaluation reports received


1      Faculty of Computer Science ­ UI, Review date 15-17 December, 2003

2      Biology Study Program ­ UGM, Review date 6-7 November, 2003

3      Plant Pests and Diseases Dept. ­ IPB, Review date 11-12 December, 2003

4      Biology Study Program ­ ITB, Review date 3-4 November, 2003

5      Biology Department ­ IPB, Review date 8-9 December, 2003

6      Geophysics Study program ­ UGM, Review date 17-19 June, 2003




                                                - 26 -

- 27 -

