Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4193 IND
Loan Agreement
(Quality of Undergraduate Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4193 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
Page  2
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“CPCU” means the Central Project Coordination Unit maintained in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, responsible for 
monitoring the Project and providing training and technical assistance to department 
heads and deans participating in a QUE Sub-project (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“DGHE” means the Directorate General of Higher Education in the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Culture; 
(c)
“DPT” means Dewan Pendidikan Tinggi, the Borrower’s Board of Higher 
Education (BHE) established by Ministerial Decree No. 0121/U/1996 and responsible for 
evaluating Project implementation and overseeing the selection of QUE and DSC 
Sub-projects;
(d)
“DSCs” means the Discipline Service Centers established at the following 
universities and for the following disciplines: Universitas Gadjah Mada (basic 
sciences, social sciences and economics); Institut Keguruan dan Ilmu Pendidikan 
Bandung (education); Universitas Indonesia (law, letters and computer sciences); 
Institut Pertanian Bogor (agriculture and biology); Institut Teknologi Bandung 
(engineering); Universitas Airlangga (medical sciences); Institut Teknologi Sepuluh 
Nopember (marine sciences); and Institut Seni Indonesia (arts and humanities), and at 
such other universities and for such other disciplines as may be agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank; and “DSC” means any one of such DSCs;
(e)
“DSC Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
partly out of the proceeds of the Loan to a DSC Grantee for a DSC Sub-project (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(f)
“DSC Grantee” means a DSC to which the Borrower proposes to make or has 
made a DSC Grant; 
(g)
“DSC Sub-project” means a specific research, education or technical 
support project to be carried out by a DSC Grantee under Part B.3 of the Project; 
(h)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(i)
“QUE” means quality of undergraduate education; 
(j)
“QUE Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
partly out of the proceeds of the Loan to a QUE Grantee for a QUE Sub-project (both as 
hereinafter defined); 
Page  3
(k)
“QUE Grantee” means a S1 level degree granting institution to which  the 
Borrower proposes to make or has made a QUE Grant; 
(l)
“QUE Sub-project” means a specific development program to improve the 
quality of undergraduate education and the relevance of the study program offered, to 
be carried out by a QUE Grantee under Part A.1 of the Project;
(m)
“S1 level” degree means the first academic degree given by a higher 
education institution in Indonesia after at least eight semesters of study beyond high 
school; and 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy one 
million two hundred thousand dollars ($71,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project (other than Parts A.1 
and B.3 of the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of QUE Grants made under Part A.1 of the 
Project and DSC Grants made under Part B.3 of the Project and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DGHE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, educational and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Page  4
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
Page  5
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Page  6
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Part 
   700,000
100% of foreign
B.1 and B.2 of the
expenditures, 100% of
Project and for the
local expenditures (ex-
CPCU
factory cost), and 65%
of local expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(2)
Training under
Part A.2 of the 
Project:
(a) In-country
   600,000
50%
(b) Overseas
   500,000
100%
(3)
QUE Grants
58,500,000
65% of Grant amount
(4)
DSC Grants
 6,700,000
70% of Grant amount
(5)
Project management:
50%
(a) CPCU Activities
 1,300,000
(b) DPT Activities
   400,000
(6)
Consultants'
 2,000,000
70%
services for Parts
A.2, B.1 and B.4
of the Project
(7)
Unallocated
   500,000
 _________
TOTAL
71,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Project management” means expenditures on account of the 
Project by the CPCU and DPT for consumables, travel expenditures, and honoraria for 
CPCU and DPT staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
Page  7
(a) 
in respect of a QUE Grant or a DSC Grant, as the case may be, unless such 
QUE Grant or such DSC Grant has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) DSC Grants and QUE Grants; (ii) 
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (iii) training and 
Project management; and (iv) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued 
at less than $100,000 equivalent each, and contracts for the employment of individuals 
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i) improving the 
quality of undergraduate study programs in national priority fields, and (ii) 
promoting a more cost-effective allocation of public funds through resource allocation 
to high priority fields at public and private universities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improving the Quality of Undergraduate Study Programs 
1.
Financing, through provision of QUE Grants to S1 level degree granting 
institutions, of specific sub-projects consisting of development programs to improve 
the quality of undergraduate education and the relevance of the study programs 
offered. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of DPT to carry out QUE Sub-project appraisal 
activities through the provision of technical assistance, the carrying out by DPT of 
workshops and training, and preparation of publications.
Part B:
Expansion of the Services Provided by Discipline Service Centers
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the DSCs to deliver on-line services, through: 
(a)
the establishment of hardware connections to Internet access providers;
(b)
the preparation and maintenance of World Wide Web sites, and Internet 
subscriber services; and
(c)
provision of related software. 
2.
Provision of relevant books and journals to DSCs. 
3.
Financing, through the provision of DSC Grants to DSCs, of specific research, 
education and technical support sub-projects, including the integration of the DSCs’ 
materials into coursework and its services into academic research. 
4.
Strengthening the capacity of DPT to carry out DSC Sub-project appraisal 
activities through the provision of technical assistance. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
Page  8
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The  principal amount of the Loan shall be divided  into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
Page  9
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November, 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Page  10
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent for goods (other than those 
procured under DSC Grants and QUE Grants), may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent for goods (other than those 
procured under DSC Grants and QUE Grants), may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods (including books, journals and software) which should be procured as an 
extension of an existing contract, must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment, or are of a proprietary nature, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  11
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and the first contract for works under each DSC Grant and each QUE 
Grant, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under QUE Sub-projects and DSC Sub-projects 
under Parts A.1 and B.3 of the Project, respectively, and for services for QUE and DSC 
Sub-project appraisal activities under Parts A.2 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under QUE Sub-projects and DSC Sub-projects estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $250,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under QUE Sub-projects and DSC Sub-projects estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the  Project,  maintain (i) DPT; and 
(ii) the CPCU in accordance with terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable 
to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than February 28, 1998, January 31, 2000, and January 31, 2002, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments, the terms of reference for the carrying 
out of the respective technical audits of Project implementation;
(b)
by July 31, 1998, July 31, 2000, and July 31, 2002, cause technical 
audits to be carried out in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
and
(c)
promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments a copy of each such 
technical audit. 
3.
(a)
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, QUE 
Grants and DSC Grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each QUE 
Sub-project and each DSC Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) comply with its obligations  under  this  
Agreement;  and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
7 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001 a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
5.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out the 
training in accordance with training programs acceptable to the Bank. 
6.
In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 
30, 1998, furnish to the Bank the criteria, procedures, guidelines and model draft 
contract for DSC Grants for the Bank’s review and approval.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures and Conditions for QUE Grants under Part A.1 
Page  13
of the Project and DSC Grants under Part B.3 of the Project
1.
QUE Grants and DSC Grants, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, shall 
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with each of 
the QUE Grantees and DSC Grantees or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(a)
require the QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee to carry out the QUE Sub-project 
or DSC Sub-project, respectively, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound educational, technical, financial and managerial standards and practices, 
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the QUE Sub-project or DSC Sub-project, as the 
case may be;
(c)
require the QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee, as the case may be, to maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
QUE Sub-project or DSC Sub-project, respectively, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, and construction included in 
the QUE Sub-project and DSC Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee, as the case may be, 
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and 
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to 
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee, as the 
case may be, to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee, as the case may be, and to the benefits 
to be derived from the QUE Sub-project or DSC Sub-project, as the case may be; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee, as the 
case may be, to the use of the proceeds of the QUE Grant or the DSC Grant, 
respectively, upon failure by such QUE Grantee or DSC Grantee to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
2.
Each Grant under Part A.1 of the Project shall be made by the Borrower only:
(a)
to a QUE Grantee which shall have established, to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, acting through DPT, on the basis of criteria and procedures acceptable to 
the Bank, that said Grantee has (i) the organization, management, staffing and other 
resources required for the efficient carrying out of the QUE Sub-project, and (ii) has 
prepared an acceptable plan for the carrying out of the QUE Sub-project; and
(b)
for a QUE Sub-project which is determined by the Borrower, acting through 
DPT, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank: (i) to be technically feasible 
and cost-effective, and (ii) to have been designed in accordance with appropriate 
educational standards.
3.
Each DSC Grant under Part B.3 of the Project shall be made by the Borrower only:
(a)
to a DSC Grantee which shall have established, to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, acting through DPT, on the basis of criteria and procedures acceptable to 
the Bank, that said Grantee has (i) the organization, management, staffing and other 
resources required for the efficient carrying out of the DSC Sub-project, and (ii) has 
Page  14
prepared an acceptable plan for the carrying out of the DSC Sub-project; and
(b)
for a DSC Sub-project which is determined by the Borrower, acting through 
DPT, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank: (i) to be technically feasible 
and cost-effective, and (ii) to have been designed in accordance with appropriate 
educational standards.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a QUE Sub-project or a DSC 
Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the 
QUE Sub-project or DSC Sub-project, as the case may be, shall have been approved by 
the Bank. When presenting a QUE Sub-project or DSC Sub-project to the Bank for review, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a draft QUE Grant agreement or DSC Grant 
agreement, as the case may be, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a 
description of the QUE Sub-project or DSC Sub-project, as the case may be, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
SCHEDULE 7
Project Performance Indicators 
1.
QUE Grants under Part A.1 of the Project
(a)
Percentage of top students who rate the selected study programs as their 
first or second choice:
(i)
10% increase over baseline at Project mid-term
(ii)
20% increase over baseline at Project completion
(b)
Percentage of selected study program Grants rated as successful or highly 
successful by DPT in follow-up site visit:
(i)
75% at Project mid-term
(ii)
90% at Project completion
(c)
Percentage of selected study program Grants rated by DPT as highly 
successful in follow-up site visit:
(i)
10% at Project mid-term
(ii)
15% at Project completion 
2.
DSC Grants under Part B.3 of the Project
(a)
Percentage of academic faculty, within related discipline, aware of 
services offered at Discipline Service Centers:
(i)
50% at Project mid-term
(ii)
75% at Project completion
(b)
Percentage of targeted users, within related discipline, that has made 
use of the services offered by Discipline Service Centers:
(i)
20% at Project mid-term
(ii)
40% at Project completion 
3.
Funding for Higher Education
Percentage of DGHE’s yearly development budget (Daftar Isian Proyek) for 
supporting universities, which is allocated competitively and on the basis of 
performance:
(i)
12% at Project mid-term
Page  15
(ii)
15% at Project completion
SCHEDULE 8
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  16
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
