Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9355
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2121-CO)
February 19, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin Amercea and Caribbean Regional Office
This doounent has a resuiced disrbution and my be used by recipientB only in the performanc of
their officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auhoriabon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Peso (Col$)
USS1 = ColS640 (1982)
US$1 - Col$383 (1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric system in use throughout report)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNR        - Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS - Colombian Port Authority
CONPES     -  Social and Economic Policy Committee of the Cabinet
DNP        - Department of National Planning
ECOPETROL  - Colombian Petroleum Agency
INTRA      - National Transport Institute
MOPT       - Ministry of Public Works and Transport
OED        - Operations Evaluation Department (World Bank)
PCR        -  Project Completion Report
SAR        -  Staff Appraisal Report
SENA       - Colombian National Training Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D C 20433
USA
Offie of Directot-.Gfwa
owvtf,i Ivauigr nf
February 19, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report - Colombia
Highway Sector Proiect (Loan 2121-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Colombia Highway Sector Project (Loan
2121-CO)", prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has s restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosz without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2121-CO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE              ....................................................                                             i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............
Project Identity .......................................1
Background .............................................1
Project Objectives and Description .....................1
Project Design and Organization ........................                                                       3
Project Implementation .................................                                                       4
Project Results ........................................                                                       6
Project Sustainability .................................                                                       8
Bank Performance .......................................                                                       9
Borrower Performance ...................................                                                       9
Project Relationship ...................................                                                       11
Consulting Services ....................................                                                       12
Project  Documentation  and  Data   ........................                                                   12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......                                                          13
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .........................                                                          14
Related Bank Loans .....................................                                                       14
Project Timetable ......................................                                                       15
Loan Disbursements .....................................                                                       15
Project Implementatiom .................................                                                       16
Project Cost and Financing .............................                                                       18
Project Results ........................................                                                       20
Status of Loan Covenants ...............................                                                       23
Use of Bank Resources ..................................                                                       25
ANNEX 1: COST OF COMPONENTS FINANCED BY THE PROJECT .......                                                           26
MAP: IBRD Map No. 12553R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2121-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Highway
Sector Project in Colombia for which Loan 2121-CO in the amount of
US$152.3 million was approved on April 1, 1982.  An amount of US$$2.7
million was cancelled on May 5, 1984.  The loan was closed on December
31, 1988, two years behind schedule. The last disbursement was made on
October 23, 1989.
The  PCR was prepared  by the  Infrastructure  and Energy
Operations Division of Country Department III of the Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office  (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
1II).  On July 6, 1990, the Bank sent Parts I and II to the Borrower
with the request to prepare Part II but no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2121-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The Highway Sector Project shared with the preceding Sixth and
Seventh Highway Projects, Loans 680-CO and 1471-CO, the same sector devel-
opment objectives of upgrading the transport system and correcting institu-
tional deficiencies within a broad plan of fostering economic growth and
development of public investment (para. 2.01 of the PCR). In particular,
the project objectives were to strengthen the highway management
capabilities of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT), adjust
sector policies, and strengthen the construction industry (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.       Implementation of the project was delayed from the beginning by;
(a) changes in Government and in the procurement law during the first two
years of project implementation; (b) lack of sustained Government commit-
ment to the objectives of the project; (c) split between administrative and
technical branches in MOPT; (d) frequent changes of MOPT's executive staff;
(e) defective engineering and slow contracting; (f) lack of counterpart
funding and of adequate coordination between budgetary and works execution
programming; and (g) MOPT weakness in carrying out the comprehensive road
rehabilitation and paving program, and failure to carry out the well
prepared road maintenance program. The combination of all these factors
delayed execution of the project by two years, and prevented attainment of
some of the project's objectives and of most of the implementation targets
(paras. 5.01 through 5.03).
Results
3.       Under the project MOPT: (a) carried out and partially implemented
several studies on policies in the transport sector, and on upgrading road
specifications and technologies; (b) procured a main frame computer and
initiated implementation of a computarized information system; (c) carried
out partially a program of institutional reform and training; (d) carried
out partially a road rehabilitation and paving program, and a road safety
program; and (e) implemented a cost-effective program for contracting
routine road maintenance. However, overall the project was not fully
successful in meeting its objectives: (a) MOPT's 1982-1986 five-year
program experienced a 142 reduction in real terms, affecting mainly such
project-related components as training (-63Z), paving (-55Z), road safety
(-41Z) and maintenance (-20Z); (b) MOPT failed to achieve many of its
institutional strengthening objectives, mainly: (i) efficient budget
planning and administration; (ii) effective maintenance administration;
(iii) adequate vehicle weight control; and (iv) upgrading of personnel



- iv -
training programs; (c) the sectoral policy objectives (para. 2.02) were not
fully achieved; and (d) the project failed to strengthen the construction
industry (para. 6.01).
Sustainability
4.       The benefits obtained through actual rehabilitation and paving of
a limited number of roads may not be sustainable in the future because of
weak engineering, defective construction of drainage systems, extreme de-
lays of the construction period inflicting traffic damage to unfinished
road sections, and inadequate maintenance. Sustainability of the modest
achievements in MOPT's institutional development and on adjustment of sec-
toral policies depends to a great extent on MOPT's political will and
decisiveness to continue consistently with the actions initiated under this
project (para. 7.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.       The careful preparation of the project was not sufficient to
ensure its satisfactory implementation. In retrospect, the Bank overesti-
mated MOPT's absorptive capacity to carry out this ambitious sectoral pro-
ject. underestimated the impact of the change in government on the critical
steps for initiation of project execution, and weakened during negotiations
(because of macroeconomic considerations) the covenants needed to ensure
decisive actions by MOPT. During implementation, the Bank should have been
willing to take the remedial actions provided in the Loan Agreement. At
operational level, we believe that future investment projects in Colombia
should be designed in tranches, and that particular attention should be
given to ensuring the required institutional strengthening, including Ire-
cise policy conditionality linked to the standard disbursement suspension
provisions (paras. 8.01 and 8.02).
6.       MOPT's main weaknesses during project implementation were:  (a)
lack of continuity in commitment co the project's objectives and frequent
changes of executive staff; (b) defective civil works engineering, cost
estimates and programming; (c) inadequate procurement, contracting and
supervising procedures; and (d) ineffective maintenance administration. To
attain greater effectiveness in the implementation of investment p:ojects,
the Government would have to ensure firm commitment to their objectives and
timely provision of funds, strengthen sector policies and procedures,
streamline its administrative procedures and ensure greater permanency of
executive staff. In addition, MOPT would have to correct its ingrained
weaknesses described above by: (a) strengthening its institutional
efficiency in the sphere of internal coordination, computerized information
systems, personnel management, sub-sactor and budget planniing, accounting
and auditing; (b) improving contract administration by upgrading the
quality of civil works engineering and execution, improving and expediting
bidding and contract administration procedures, correlating adequately
budgeting and works execution programming, increasing the efficiency and
reducing the cost of works supervision, and strengthening the managerial
and technical capacity of contractors; and (c) upgrading maintenance
planning, financing, execution and monitoring (para. 9.04).



COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2121-CO)
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:      Highway Sector Project
Loan Number:       2121-CO
RVP Unit:          Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country:           Colombia
Sector:            Transport
Subsector:         Highway
2. Background
2.01     The Highway Sector Project shared with the preceding Sixth and
Seventh Highway Projects 'Loan 680-CO and Loan 1471-CO) the same sector
development objectives of upgrading the transport system and correcting
institutional deficiencies within a broad plan of fostering economic growth
and development of public investment. This project continued the trend
initiated with the Seventh Highway Project to move away from lending for
tight and clearly defined projects to a sectoral approach tackling subsec-
toral and institutional issues.
2.02     The policy context of this project was to strengthen the capacity
of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) to upgrade the
national road system, to carry out adequate road maintenance programs and
to improve road transportation. It was closely linked with the macro
policy objectives of fostering economic development in all parts of the
country, including rural areas, and expanding the export capacity of the
country.
3. Project Objective and Description
3.01     Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the project were to:
(a) strengthen MOPT's highway management capabilities; including planning,
design and execution of civil works, road safety, personnel training
vehicle weight control and road maintenance through the countrywide imple-
mentation of pavement and equipment management systems; (b) adjust sector



- 2 -
policies covering general sector planning, road user charges and regulation
of the trucking industry; and (c) strengthening of the construction
industry.
3.02     Project Description.  The project financed partially MOPT's five
year Highway Program for 1982-1986, which included:
(a)   Engineering, construction and supervision of:  (a) 3,700 km  of
road rehabilitation; (b) 2,800 km of road paving; (c) 2,500 km
of resealing; and (d) 500 km of new construction.
(b)   Implementation of the Pavement Management System developed under
the Seventh Highway Project, Loan 1471-CO, comprising: (a)
collection of road user and maintenance cost data for different
types of roads; (b) assessment of total road user costs for
different investment strategies and levels; (c) determination of
economically most advantageous maintenance strategies; and (d)
consequent design and execution of road maintenance programs.
(c)   Implementation of the Equipment Management System developed under
Loan 1471-CO comprising: (a) preventive maintenance program for
equipment; (b) planning and streamlining of spare parts acquisi-
tion and management; and (c) monitoring equipment availability and
utilization.
(d)   Execution of a Road Safety Program, comprising:  (a) provision of
traffic signs, road markings and guardrails for 5,400 km of main
roads; (b) construction of four experimental rest areas for truck-
ers, ten vehicle diagnostic centers and a safety trai.ing facili-
ty; (r) technical assistance and scholarship programs for safety
engineering and institutional strengthening; and (d) coordination
of road safety policies and actions with other public and private
agencies, and promotion of public awareness on road safety related
matters.
(e)   Strengthening of MOPT's personnel trainirg program to improve the
skills of about 3,000 employees.
(f)   A study of trucking regulations and services.
(g)   Support for the construction industry, comprising:  (a) training
in professional management; (b) financing of the industry; and
(c) technical training.
(h)   Execution of special studies for:  (a) continuous upgrading of the
National Transport Plan including port development policies, con-
tainerization and development of intermodal services and analyses
of freight transport; and (b) upgrading of road construction
technolog!y and highway administration, including introduction of
alternative construction materials and asphalt emulsion technolo-
gy, creation of a highway data bank, and development of road
design and evaluation techniques.



-3-
3.03     Loan funds were disbursed against selected components of this
program, particularly rehabilitation and paving of roads (Annex 1).
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.01     Conceptual Foundation.  The project was designed as an institu-
tional strengthening and infrastructure execution project to be prepared
a   implemented by MOPT within its five-year (1982-1986) Highway Program.
Moreover, the project was designed to consolidate efforts under the Seventh
Highway Project to strengthen MOPT's capacity to plan, finance, and imple-
ment road works and road maintenance, and to improve administration of the
transport sector.  This conceptual foundation was developed jointly by MOPT
and the Bank and clearly spelled out in the Memorandum of Understanding
dated August 13, 1981 and a subsequent Aide Memoire dated January 21, 1982.
4.02     Innovative Aspects.  The project contained several innovative
components. The Road Safety component aimed at improving: safety con-
sciousness in road design, driver licensing and vehicle registration,
vehicle inspection, enforcement of traffic regulations and statistical
information on vehicle fleet and traffic accidents, all of which were weak
or nonexistent. The studies related to the deregulation of the trucking
industry, containerization and development of intermodal services were
designed to innovate substantially on existing transport concepts.
4.03     Preparation of the Project.  The project was carefully prepared
with the help of technical assistance under Loan 1471-CO. Agreements
reached during preparation encompassed: (a) the scope and structure of an
economically justified and financially feasible highway program covering
the period 1982-1986 and agreement on annual updating of such program; (b)
criteria and procedures, and related organizational arrangements for selec-
tion, engineering, and implementation of civil works subprojects included
in MOPT's program; (c) advanced tendering for about 40Z of the civil works
to be financed under the project; (d) appropriate measures to address
selected sectoral issues concerning sectoral planning, road transport
services, road safety and highway administration; and (e) adequate proce-
dures for monitoring project implementation and disbursements. The timing
of the project turned out to be premature; it should have been postponed by
about a year because of protracted implementation of the Seventh Highway
Loan showing MOPT's weak absorptive capacity. Moreover, the change of
government shortly after negotiations delayed project effectiveness and
weakened the conceptual agreements reached with the outgoing government on
project objectives and scope.
4.04     Roles and Responsibilities.  The roles in project implementation
of MOPT, the National Transport Institute (INTRA) and the National Planning
Department (DNP) had been well defined and understood during project prepa-
ration. However, during project implementation differences of opinion
among these agencies often surfaced and caused delays and inconsistencies
in project implementation.
4.05     Contribution to Success/Failure.  The reliance on MOPT's absorp-
tive capacity to implement simultaneously the Seventh Highway Project and
the Road Sector Project proved in retrospect the main obstacle to attaining
a smooth and complete implementation of the project.



-4-
5. Project Implementation
5.01     Variances in the Implementation.  The change in government that
took place one month before effectiveness of the loan, seriously affected
the carefully prepared timely start-up of project implementation. The new
authorities delayed by several months the start of the civil works con-
tracts that had been awarded by their predecessors and suispended further
bidding until after enacting a new procurement law, which introduced addi-
tional complications into the tendering and contracting procedures, and
proved to be partly in conflict with Bank's procurement guidelines. These
consecutive difficulties delayed by a year the start-up of pru.ject execu-
tion and led to the cancellation, in May 1984, of US$2,685,000 from the
loan proceeds, because MOPT did not award a contract to the lowest evaluat-
ed bidder. The difficulties in the procurement procedures were finally
solvet in June 1984, and project implementation got under way with about
two years delay. In October 1983, the Bank had agreed to transfer from
Loan 1471-CO the completion of execution of 202 km of road rehabilitation.
5.02     Although in mid 1984 it was agreed to expedite disbursements by
opening a special account, execution of civil works suffered new delays
because of: delays in contracting, lack of counterpart funding, poor per-
formance by contractors, and weak supervision. Following a Special Action
Program with the Government, the Bank increased disbursements for civil
works from 50% to 65% starting January 1, 1985 until December 31, 1986. An
extension of the loan closing date from December 1986 to December 31, 1987
was agreed on May 26, 1985 and, on June 19, 1986, the Bank agreed to apply
65% financing to the execution of emergency civil works for the
reconstruction of about 210 km of secondary roads that had been destroyed
November 13, 1985 by the eruption of the volcano Nevado del Ruiz. On
Dece,nber 1987, the loan closing date was extended by an additional year to
December 31, 1988. Finally, to overcome further inefficiencies in
counterpart funding, the Bank agreed July 15, 1988, to increase financing
of the outstanding works from 65% to 70?.
5.03     Executicn of all other project components also underwent major
variances:
(a)   MOPT was unable to extend the Pavement Management and the Equi?-
ment Management Systems from the four districts in which they had
been established under Loan 1471-CO to any other of the 23 dis-
tricts, Moreover implementation of the systems was discontinued
in one of the districts and carried out only haphazardly in the
other three. Maintenance expenditures increased consistently in
real terms until 1983, when they amounted to 30? of MOPT's budget,
but decreased again in later years, averaging 26.4Z over the five-
year period 1982-1986. MOPT's maintenance expenditures per km of
road are the highest in the LAC region, but operational efficiency
remains low because of weak planning, diversion of maintenance
funds to major emergency works, lo: labor and equipment
productivity and lack of adequate informative and costing systems.
The agreed increase in periodic maintenance execution by contract
was accomplishxed only partially: the system to contract out
periodic mainLenance of specific road sectors over a three-year



period introduced in 1982 failed because of the tendency of
contractors to execute only high-unit-cost work items and neglect
others, and inadequate supervision. Of particular interest has
been MOPT's innovative initiative to contract routine maintenance
with labor absorbing small cooperatives of 12 to 15 workers
covering about 50 km of road each. By 1986, this program
included 126 cooperatives covering over 6.000 km of primary roads
and was further expanded in later years. This program has
demonstrated to be a cost effective alternative to the force
account operations originally envisaged under the project.
(b)   The Road Safety component was also carried out only partially,
with a substantial success in the execution of civil works related
to vertical and horizontal signalization of roads and installation
of guardrails, but with little progress in the provision of infra-
structure needed for implementation of driver training and vehicle
control, and in the preparation and implementation of programs for
institutional strengthening, coordination of road safety policies
and actions with other public and private agencies, as well as
promotion of public awareness on road safety matters.
(c)   The institutional strengthening component including a personnel
training program produced mixed results. The Bank-guided effort
to strengthen MOPT's administrative and financial procedures
through a participatory diagnosis process started successfully in
November 1983 and by late 1984 had produced substantial results
in: (i) MOPT's self evaluation, determination of critical areas,
recommendation of adequate solutions, and plan of action for
implementation; (ii) improved communication among road units and
among individuals creating a friendlier environment; (iii)
acquaintance with each other's functions and better co';rdination
among the different MOPT departments; and (iv) enhanced realiza-
tion of MOPT's objectives by its personnel. This so successfully
initiated program was carried out with decreasing intensity during
the following two years, but lessons learned were not fully
applied and did not adequately incorporate the MOPT organization
in the provinces. The concurrent personnel training program was
initiated with two years delay, achieved only about 602 of the
overall targets and neglected the oritical training of road and
equipment maintenance personnel;
(d)   Financing of equipment procurement under the loan experienced an
increase of 242. While maintenance equipment increased by 67Z,
road safety equipment decreased by 50? and no training equipment
was procured. Although not initially programmed, the procurement
of a mainframe computer with 50 terminals was a substantial
contribution to the systematization of all MOPT's administrative,
financial and accounting procedures started under this project.
(e)   Three attempts to implement the intended support to the domestic
construction industry failed because of lack of political will of
successive MOPT administrations.



- 6 -
(f)   There were also sub)stantial variances in the different studies
carried out under the project: (i) the National Transport Plan
was submittedt in December 1984 and updated in 1986; (ii) the
studies ot Road User Charges and of the Transport Industry were
successfully carried out, with major delays, and their implementa-
tion was mostly p)ostponed to be carried out under the Second Road
Sector Project (Loan 2829-CO); and (iii) of the four studies to
upgrade road technology and highway administration only the one
referring to asphalt emulsions was completed, but its practical
application has not been adequately implemented. The other three
studies on slopes stability, use of alternative road materials and
upgrading technical specifications and guidelines, were to be
continued under Loan 2829-CO.
5.04     Possible Avoidance of Variances and Risks.  The main variance
between planned and actual project implementation was MOPT's inability to
follow the clear and well-balanced implementation program agreed during
preparation and confirmed at negotiations. This variance could have been
avoided if the Bank had recognized that MOPT was not institutionally strong
enough to implement such a demanding Sector Project and had devised a
simpler project with discrete targets strongly linked to loan conditionali-
ty. Timing of the project should also have been postponed allowing for
delayed execution of the preceding Seventh Highway Project and for the
dangers of a change of administration during the crucial start-up period.
A negative factor not foreseen at appraisal was the reduced availability of
counterpart funding because of: (a) the impact of the 1983-1984 collapse
of the international coffee price on the Colombian economy; and (b) the
disastrous effects of the November 1985 eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz
Volcano. The risks of insufficient financial resources, of MOPT's weak
absorptive capacity and of inappropriate timing were not realistically
assessed at appraisal.
5.05     Actions Affecting Implementation.  The Bank's decision in the last
stages of project preparation to go ahead with the sectoral approach and
with the proposed timing, despite divergent internal opinions, was the one
that most seriously affected project implementation. The close and firm
supervision carried out by the Bank contributed decisively to preventing
further deviations from the project objectives and targets. In view of
MOPT's failure to improve many aspects of project implementation, despite
constant Bank recommendations for actions submitted by successive missions,
and action plans agreed with them and confirmed by stern Bank
communications, it is apparent that the Bank should have taken timely
decisive action to suspend disbursements as a means to stimulate effective
remedial action by MOPT. The main reason given by the Bank for not
suspending was the need to support the Government's generally sound macro-
economic policies at a time of fiscal stringency. In retrospect however,
one may question whether this stance was not counter-productive in the long
run. remedial actions were not taken because of macro-economic
considerations.
6.0 Project Results
6.01 Project Objectives. The project met its objectives only partially:



(a)   MOPT's Five-Year Program agreed at negotiations experienced a 14%
reduction in real terms, affecting mainly such project-related
components as training (-63Z), paving (-55Z), road safety (-41%)
and maintenance (-20%), whereas construction expenditures
increased by 11Z, equipment procurement by 21% and studies by 48%,
showing clearly MOPT's reluctance to modify its traditional
budgetary programming. The shortfall in financing from earmarked
fuel taxes (-21%), external financing (-13Z), and tolls (-112) was
partially compensated by an increase in Government contributions
(19%) and other MOPT revenues (1652), and by new financing through
domestic credit. The disappointing experience with the Road Fund
tends to undermine the argument that such funds are more reliable
sources of financing than general revenues.
(b)   The strengthening of MOPT's highway management capabilities was
not fully achieved. The Bank-guided participatory diagnosis
process led to better internal communications among MOPT's units
and substantially improved institutional coordination. MOPT
strengthened its in-house capability to prepare economic-based
highway programs and introduced computarized systems for financial
management, personnel administration and contract monitoring.
However, computarization was not adequately developed under the
project to provide effective information and administration
systems for road maintenance and equipment management. The
technical studies for upgrading road technology and highway
administration initiated under this project may contribute greatly
to the strengthening of MOPT's highway administration capability.
The road safety and the training components fell short from
reaching their objectives. Most discouraging were MOPT's failure
to attain the project objectives on: (i) budget administration -
the exis-.ing wide gap between budget programming and project fund-
ing requirements that in the past had reached dramatic propor-
tions, was bridged only to a minimum extent; (ii) effective
maintenance administration - the countrywide implementation of
pavement and equipment management systems were not carried out and
the efficiency of road maintenance execution in the districts was
not substantially improved; and (iii) vehicle weight control -
after failing to implement this program under the Seventh Highway
Project, MOPT was also unable to advance its implementation under
the Road Sector Project, except for procurement of a few portable
weighing scales.
(c)   Although no substantial progress was achieved in the definition of
the responsibilities of national, departmental and municipal
authorities in the administration of the road network, other com-
ponents contributed considerably to attaining desirable adjust-
ments to sector policies. Firstly, the study on trucking regula-
tions and services presented recommendations on needed reformula-
tion of laws and regulations, on reorganization of MOPT's
transport authority, strengthening of intermodal transport,
provision of transport terminals and others. Secondly, the study
on road user charges developed a computer model to analyze the
distribution of road user charges and recommendations to increase



MOPT revenues. Implementation of these recommendations started
under the project and is continuing under the Second National
Highways Sector Project.
(d)   No progress was achieved in the strengthening of the construction
industry. On the contrary, the extreme delays in payments by MOP
deteriorated even further the financial capacity of the industry
and, coupled with poor supervision and lack of motivation,
weakened its technical capacity.
6.02     Physical Results.  The main objectives of the project were not
changed during project implementation. As described in Section 5.0 of this
report, most of the expected physical results were not attained. At
appraisal, the weighted average rate of return of ten road rehabilitation
and eight road paving subprojects (representing about 16Z of the total
program) had been estimated at 752. The economic confirmation study could
only be carried out on three rehabilitation and seven paving subprojects,
which were the only ones fully completed under the project (representing 32
of the original program). Their weighted average rate of return of 57Z
does not allow comparison with the rate estimated at appraisal, because it
corresponds to a different set of roads. Comparing the actual rate of
return of each one of the ten completed roads with the ones established in
the respective initial evaluation, it can be determined that five
experienced an increase and five a decrease. The increases were due mainly
to higher traffic, in some cases also to lower costs; the decreases were
due mainly to lower traffic, but also to higher costs. However, there
remains little doubt that the works were highly justified.
6.03     Project Impact.  Although the project did not fully achieve its
physical targets nor the expected impact on the strengthening of MOPT's
capacity and on the improvement of road transportation, the 434 km of
roads (202 km transferred from Loan 1471-CO and 232 constructed fully
under this project) as well as the 740 km of road sections completed under
this project benefitted the economy by reducing vehicle operating costs,
extending the useful life of past capital expenditures, and providing
better levels of service to users. The project also had an impact on
fostering MOPT's institutional development and strengthening the rapport
between the Bank and MOPT on sectorwide issues.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01     The benefits obtained through actual rehabilitation and paving of
a limited number of roads may not be sustainable in the future because of
defective construction derived from partially unsatisfactory engineering,
poor execution of drainage systems, and extended exposure of unprotected
black bases to traffic wear due to extreme delays in, and poor planning of,
execution of works. Inadequate maintenance by the contractors during the
excessively extended execution periods and by the MOPT districts after
takeover of the completed works may also affect the sustainability of the
benefits expected from the completed roads. The sustainability of the
modest achievements in MOPT's institutional development and in adjustment
of sectoral policies will depend to a great extent on MOPT's political will
and decisiveness to continue consistently with the actions begun under this



- 9 -
project. The sustainability of the achievements of this project would be
greatly enhanced by MOPT's conscientious compliance with the detailed
action plan agreed to under Loan 2829-CO covering numerous actions on: (a)
institutional issues, such as: managerial and budgetary aspects, road
maintenance management, civil works contract administration, and personnel
training; and (b) sector policies, such as: road user charges, transport
regulation and trade facilitation, and public investment.
8. Bank Performance
8.01     Preparation and Appraisal.  During project identification, prepa-
ration and appraisal the Bank carefully assessed tne Borrower's need to
strengthen MOPT administration and its sectoral policies, and successfully
recommended and monitored all actions needed to put together a promising
project. However, the Bank overestimated MOPT's absorptive capacity to
carry out this ambitious project, underestimated the possible impact of the
change in government on the critical steps for initiation of project execu-
tion and, during negotiations, yielded to the Borrower's pressure weakening
some of the stern covenants that would have compelled MOPT to more decisive
action. In the years 1981-1983, Bank management did not want to jeopardize
its lending relations to Colombia because of its relatively satisfactory
macro-economic management at a time when the rest of Latin America was in
crisis.
8.02     Supervision.  Supervision of this projpct was carried out
efficiently, closely linked with supervision of the Seventh Highway
Project, the Second National Highway Sector Project and two ongoing rural
road projects. The Bank followed closely the difficulties progressively
arising in project implementation, and presented timely and repeated recom-
mendations to prevent deterioration and improve project implementation.
The Bank gave MOPT the benefit of the doubt in rating the project as a 2
more often than as a 3, whioch in retrospect was probably too lenient.
Given MOPT's persistent weaknesses in complying with agreed actions or
commitments, the Bank should have been willing to apply the remedies
foreseen in the loan conditions, particularly suspension of disbursements.
These remedies were not applied because the successive MOPT administrations
constantly promised to take appropriate action. Based on the discouraging
experience with highway loans in Colombia, the loan agreements of future
investment projects should include precise policy conditionality, establish
all arrangements needed to ensure the institutional strengthening required
for implementation of the project, and attach greater weight to the
periodic reviews as a basis for considering suspension of disbursement.
The Bank should also consider linking the timing of projects to the
election cycle, to avoid preparing a project with an outgoing government
and start implementation with another.
9.0 Borrower Performance
9.01 Strength and Weaknesses. Under the project, MOPT accomplished the
following: (a) initial formulation and later updating of the National
Transport Plan; (b) execution of studies on Road User Charges and Transport



- 10 -
Regulation and Trade Facilitation and partial implementation of their
recommendations; (c) partial execution of studies to upgrade road
specifications and technologies; (d) procurement of a mainframe computer;
(e) initiation of implementation of a computarized information system; (f)
partial success in institutional strengthening; (g) setting up pluriannual
expenditure programs; (h) initiation of training programs; (i) partial
execution of the road rehabilitation and paving component; (j) execution of
physical components of the road safety program; and (k) implementation of a
cost-effective program for contracting out execution of routine road
maintenance.
9.02     Full implementation of the project was hampered by:  (a) lack of
sustained commitment of the government to the objectives of the project;
(b) frequent changes in high- and mid-level staff assignment, newcoming
inexperienced administrators and technicians slowed down the process, took
wrong decisions and often insisted on repeating the same errors that had
been previously corrected; (c) defective engineering and inadequate cost
estimates; (d) cumbersome bidding and contracting procedures; (e) lack of
consistency between budgetary and civil works execution programming
resulting in a chronic shortage of funds to finance the civil works
program, in extreme delays in processing of payments, and finally in up to
three-fold extensions of the programmed execution of civil works; (f) weak
performance of most contractors and extremely costly and ineffective
supervision by consultants; (g) MOPT's failure to implement maintenance and
equipment management systems introduced by consultants under Loan 1471-CO,
to establish adequate maintenance information and cost-accounting systems,
and to strengthen maintenance planning execution and monitoring.
9.03     Lessons and Experience.  These limited achievements and the
positive and cost-effective experience on contracting out routine
maintenance with small cooperatives should be further supported and
expanded. Substantial strengthening in Government sector policies and
procedures and in MOPT's performance is needed to attain greater
effectiveness in the preparation and implementation of any future road
project. The Government would have to:
(a)   streamline further its administrative and budgetary procedures;
(b)   ensure greater permanency of managerial and technical staff; and
(c)   carry out the recommendations of the transport sector studies
performed under this project by: (i) improving the equity and
adequacy of road user charges; (ii) improving the efficiency of
road freight transport; and (iii) promoting multimodal transport.
9.04     MOPT would have to correct the ingrained weaknesses described
above by:
(a)   Strengthening institutional efficiency through:  (i) further
improving internal coordination and administration procedures;
(ii) improving computarized information and control systems;
(iii) aiming the technical capacity of its staff to more effective
practical activities; (iv) strengthening its Sector Planning
Office; (v) increasing the responsiveness of investment planning
and the flexibility of funding to current priorities; (vi)
updating and consolidating accounting and auditing procedures;



- 11 -
(b)   improving contract administration through:  (i) upgrading the
quality of civil works engineering and execution by completing and
implementing the technical studies initiated under the project;
(ii) improving and expediting bidding and contract administration
procedures; and (iii) making the works execution programming
conditional on the availability of funds and coordinating it with
budget programming;
(c)   increasing the effectiveness and  reducing cost of works
supervision through: (i) improving the quality and accountability
of supervision consultants by more stringent selection based on
past performance; (ii) reducing the proliferation of inefficient
supervision contracts by regional grouping of contracts;
(iii) adjusting the scope of supervision contracts and the number
of supervisors deployed to the actual requirements of civil works
execution according to budgetary and other constraints; and (iv)
strengthening MOPT's monitoring of the efficiency and cost-
effectiveness of supervision contracts;
(d)   strengthening the managerial and technical capacity of contractors
to secure greater competitiveness and improved execution of works
through: (i) promoting the organization of courses in business
administration, programming of works, specific technical subjects,
work safety, cost-accounting and quality control; (ii) improving
MOPT's monitoring of contractors' performance and accountability;
and (iii) expediting contract award and expenditure payment
procedures.
9.05     The follow-up Second Road Sector Project was specifically designed
(including a comprehensive action plan) to assist the Government and MOPT
in addressing these issues. It has succeeded in the following: (a)
liberalizing overall transport sector policies; (b) increasing the
technical capacity of the staff; (c) strengthening the Sector Planning
Department; (d) increasing toll-road revenues; (e) streamlining internal
and procurement procedures; and (f) improving contract administration. The
remaining problems should be delt with in the upcoming third sector
project.
10.0 Project Relationships
10.01    Bank-Borrower Relations.  The Bank's repeated efforts to improve
project preparation and implementation did not succeed because of MOPT weak
performance. Repeated assurances by MOPT's authorities that they would
take adequate corrective actions induced the Bank not to apply sterner
measures, such as suspension of disbursements. In preparing future
investment project in Colombia, the Bank should ensure that all potential
unfavorable aspects have been taken into account.
10.02    Internal Relations of the Borrower.  MOPT's relations with its own
National Transport Institute and with the National Planning Department were
not close and efficient enough to ensure smooth implementation of the
sectoral components of the project. The internal frictions and lack of
coordination resulting from the division of MOPT's central administration



- 12 -
into two main branches, the General Secretariat carrying out administrative
and financial functions and the Technical Secretariat in charge of design,
programming and execution, caused misunderstandings, contradictions, wasted
efforts and continued delays, and contributed substantially to MOPT's weak
project im-Lementation.  Inefficiencies in the coordination between MOPT's
central and district organizations harmed the execution of road
maintenance. Bridging over these internal difficulties is crucial for
successful implementation of future projects.
11. Consulting Services
11.01    The technical assistance for the use of asphalt emulsions by
Spanish consultants, the study on trucking regulations and services by a
Swedish-Colombian joint venture, and the study of road user charges by a
Colombian consultant, were satisfactorily carried out. The well prepared
programs for practical application of the technical assistance on asphalt
emulsions were not adequately implemented by MOPT.
11.02    Consultant services for all other studies were deployed too late
to allow completion of their assignments under the project and were
transferred to the Second Sector Project.
11.03    Supervision of civil works execution by local consultants was
extremely expensive, averaging 102 of total costs in 18 rehabilitation
contracts and 19% of total costs in 33 paving contracts. Despite this high
cost, supervision in general was not satisfactory because of weak technical
experience of many supervisors, diminished effectiveness of the supervision
due to job interruptions caused by inadequate financing, and weak
monitoring of supervision consultants by MOPT.
11.04    With few exceptions, the civil works contractors showed inadequate
administrative and technical capacity and their performance was further
hampered by insufficient financial capacity to confront the critical
payment delays.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01    The legal agreements for this project should have spelled out much
more clearly the covenants needed to ensure satisfactory implementation of
the project and would have been greatly strengthened by the preparation of
a detailed Action Plan spelling out all actions needed to ensure the
institutional strengthening pursued under the project. Data on project
execution provided by MOPT consisted mainly of information on expenditures
and did not supply adequate information on physical performance. Data
needed for the preparation of the PCR was readily available in Bank files.
The supervision reports and the Aide Memoire agreed after each mission were
particularly helpful in the preparation of this report.



- 13 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office sent Parts I
and III of this PCR to the Borrower on July 6, 1990 with the request to
prepare Part 11, but none was received.



- 14 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number
Title                            Year of
Project          Purpose          Approval    Status             Comments
1471-CO       Rehabilitation of  06/29177    Completed.          US$90.0
Seventh       978 km. priority                                   million.
Highway       roads, and                                         Scope of civil
Project       improving road                                     works reduced
maintenance and                                   to 776 km.
transport                                         Other two main
management.                                       components
only partially
carried out.
1996-CO       Construction and   09/21/81    Completed.          US$33.0
Rural Roads   rehabilitation of                                  million.
Project       1,420 km. of                                       1,256 km. of
rural roads,                                      roads were
strengthening of                                  maintained or
administration                                    rehabilitated,
and maintenance.                                  strengthening
programs were
carried out.
2668-CO       Rural roads         03/25/86    Ongoing.           US$62.0
Rural         investment and                                     million.
Transport     maintenance                                        To be
Sector        programs,                                          completed
improvement of                                    12/31/90.  All
minor waterways,                                  projects
institutional                                     objectives
strengthening.                                    achieved.
2829-CO       Main roads          07/23/85    Ongoing.           US$180.3
Second        investment and                                     million.
National      maintenance                                        Loan fully
Highway       programs.                                          committed.
Sector        Implementation of                                  Completion
Project       transport                                          expected by
planning and                                      December 31,
management                                        1991 without
systems.                                          achieving all
objectives.
3157-CO       Rural roads         01/16/90    Signed             US255.0
Second Rural  investment and                   March 7, 1990.   million.
Road Sector   maintenance                                        Implementation
programs,                                         is starting.
strengthening of
national and
local user road
agencies.



- 15 -
2. Pro7ect Timetable
Date           Date            Date
Items                                   Planned         Revised        Actual
Identification                          -              -              08/26/80
Preparation mission I                   -              -               09/15/80
Preparation mission II                  -              -               03/02/81
Appraisal mission                       -              -               07/20/81
Loan Negotiation                        -              -               03/02/82
Board Approval                          -              -              04/01/82
Loan Signature                          -              -               05/13/82
Loan Effectiveness                      -              -              09/22/82
Project Completion                      12/31/86       12/31/87        12/31/88
Loan Closing                            12/31/86       12/31/87        12/31/83
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY88   FY84   FY86    FY68    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Appraisal Estimate        28.8   70.8  122.8   162.8   152.3   152.8   162.8    162.B
Actual                     2.8   29.1   66.4    98.2   127.8   187.0   147.7    149.8eJ
Actual as I of Estimates   8.1   41.1   46.1    61.2   8a.9    90.0    97.0    98.2
Date of Final Disbursement: 10/28/89. The deadlin, for disbursemewts was informaily extended to
almost eleven months after Loan Closing Date, which Is no longer acceptable.
*/ US2.7 million were cancelled 05/04/84.



- 16 -
4, Project Implem ntstion
Appr liesI
Indicators                           Estimate     Actual              Comments
Reduce participation of new                                       Despite overall budget
construction from 30a  of MOPT                                    reduction, MOPT incressed new
budget to                            13%            17X           construction oxpenditures
above agreed tresholds.
Rehabilitation of paved roads, km.  3,690           976           202 km. wore trensfered from
Loan 1471-CO. 378 km. in
execution were tranefered to
Loan 2829-CO.
Paving of gravel roods, km.          2,780          201           620 km. in execution were
transfered to Loan 2829-CO.
Resealing of paved roads, km.        2,600          Neplipible    MOPT was not able to provide
reliable information.
Paved Road Condition Inventory,      12,000         1,600         Provinces never developed
km.                                                               capacity to prepare reliable
inventor ies.
Maintenance Fleet availability       80%            -             MOPT did not implement system
Annual equipment utilization                                      established to provide this
hours           1,200          -              information countrywide.
Installation of mini-computers in       25          25
districts
Extension of pavement and            01/0/84       -             Minicomputers wero installed,
equipment management systems to                                   but not used properly.
all 28 districts
Expenditures on maintenance          < S0%          > 60%         Systems established under Loan
personnel and administration to be                                1471-CO in four districts,
less then 60% of total maintenance                                were not extended to other
expenditures                                                      districts.
Equipment procurement - USSOOO.      8,000          10,700        Desired relation was attained
only in 1986.



- 17-
Vertical and horizontal                                           Implementation of road safety
signalization, km.                   5,000         0,100         prooram concentrated In
Installation of guardraiIs, km         100            a0         execution of safety works
Rest aroos for truckers                  4         -             along roads, not much progress
Vehicle diagnosis centers               10         -             achievd In supplying
Road Safsty Training Center              1         -              infrsstructure and
organization to facilitate
road safety programs.
Personnel to be trained              3,278         2,010         Initlition of the training
Training expenditures US2000         1,808         1,160         program was delayed by two
Mobile Road Training                                             years and was not implemented
Production Unit                       1         -             consistently.
Mochanical Training
Production Unite                         4         -
Study of transport industry          09/01/68      10/01/84      Implementation continued under
Loan 2829-CO.
Preparation of National Transport   12/31/88       12/81/84      Updated in 1986.
Plan
Adoption of uniform pavement                       -             This commitment was
design criteria and materials                                    transferred to Loan 2829-CO
specifications, by                   09/80/88
Tosk force to define                                             MOPT acted unilaterally
responsibilities on administration                 -             confirming existing
of total network                     08/01/82                    arrangements.
Support for the Domestic                           -
Construction Industry                              -             MOPT made three attempts to
Training of 200 managers         03/81/88                     start this program, but each
Permanent training arrangements  07/31/83       -             time, lack of couitmsnt
Financing arrangements for                                       prevented further
construction industry               06/81/88       -             lmplementation.



- 18 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Appraisal Estimate
MOPT', Program 1982-1986
(US8 million equivalent at July 1981 prices)
1982     1983     1984      1986     1988     Total       Percent
APPLICATION OF FUNDS      440.8    498.7    476.0    494.2    462.9  2.885.1        100.0
Highways                  412.8    442.1    402.2    484.2       88.8  2.074.9       87.7
Non-recurrent          262.2    282.4    238.0    286.4    210 0  1.268.0         68.2
New construction    79.7      76.0     88.8      66.0     87.2    311.2        18.1
Rehabilitation      67.4      98.6     82.7      87.6     47.0   388.8         18.2
Paving              66.8      82.8     81.6    109.9    109.9    480.0         18.2
Equipment           a8.8      80.8      -         -        -       72.6         8.1
Road Safety           3.1      8.7      4.8       6.2      8.1     26.9         1.1
Training             0.6       0.8      0.6       0.7      0.6      3.2         0.1
Studies              8.9       4.9      6.0       6.0      7.0     31.8         1.4
Recurrent              160.6    169.7    184.2    168.8    178.6    816.9         34.6
Maintenance        122.8    180.9    184.8    188.8    148.0    689.8          28.8
Administration      20.3      28.8     29.4      80.0     80.6    147.1         6.2
Other Non-highways      88.6     45.6     58.2      27.6     26.4    186.8         7.8
Debt Service             -        9.0     19.6      82.4     48.9    104.9         4.6
SOURCE OF FUNDS       448.8    498.7    47.60    494.2    452.9  2.865.1         100.0
Internal Financina    867.4    866.7    884.4    484.8    448.6  1.975.8          88.6
Fuol tax revenues  804.1    312.6    384.0    368.8    886.8  1,894.8          71.7
Oovernment
appropriations     9.9       6.8     16.8     40.2      20.6     92.8         8.9
Road tolls          29.4      82.4     34.1      85.8     87.6    169.8         7.2
Other own revenues  14.0       4.9      -         -        -       18.9         0.8
External Financing      88.9    141.0     90.6      69.4      9.4    889.8        18.4
Proposed Sector Ln.  9.4      41.6     47.9      44.1      9.4    162.8         6.4
Other foreign cr.   79.5      99.6     42.7      16.3      -      287.0        10.0



- 19 -
B.  Actual
MOPT's Proaram 1982-19986
(USS million equivalent at July 1981 prices)
Variation
1982     1988      1984     1986    1988       Total   Percentage    Porcenta2.
APPLICATION OF FUNDS      376.8    401.0    394.4    432.1    428.8  2,0al e          100.0        -14.1
Hichways                  360.1    357.6    334.1    387.7    348.6  1.76S.9           86.4        -16.8
Non-recurrent          222.2    211.0    200.8    244.9    196.1  1073.7           62.8        -14.6
New construction   104.6       60.1     67.7      68.5      80.8    346.4        17.0        +11.3
Rehabilitation       67.2      88.3     78.1    103.7       56.0    381.3        18.8         -0.6
Paving               20.4      35.3     45.8      42.0      60.8    194.8         9.6        564.8
Equipment            30.8      22.9      6.7      20.0       7.6     87.9         4.3        +21.0
Road Safety           -         1.3      2.6       8.9       2.8     16.4         0.8        -40.6
Training              -         -        -         0.1       1.1      1.2         -          -82.6
Studies               9.6       4.9      9.8       8.7      18.6     47.2         2.8        +48.4
Recurrent              127.7    148.6    133.8    122.8    161.4    682.2           83.6        -18.5
Maintenance          99.6    118.9    102.7       95.0    119.8    638.0         26.4        -20.0
Administration       28.1      27.8     31.1      27.8      31.8    148.2         7.2         -0.6
Other Non-hiahways      26.2      29.9     46.6      39.7      33.6    174.8         s.6         -6.6
Debt Service             -        13.8      13.8     24.7      48.8    100.9         5.0         -a.8
SOURCE OF FUNDS        376.3    401.0    394.4    432.1    428.8  2.031.6          100.0        -14.1
Internal Financina    310.7    348.4    333.8    348.2    365.6 .5 s7.6             83.1        -14.6
Fuel tax revenues  256.0    265.8    277.7    272.4    275.2  1,337.1            86.8        -21.1
Government
appropriations    23.4      68.1      12.1      10.9      5.8    110.3          6.4       .18.9
Road tolle           24.7      20.0     26.6      3'..9     44.3    160.4         Z.4        -11.1
Other own revenues   7.8        8.1      9.8      11.6      12.9     60.0         2.6      +164.0
Domestic credit       -         0.4      7.7      13.4      18.3     39.8         2.0          -
External Financina      84.8      57.8     60.8      88.9      72.3    344.0        18.9        -13.2
Proposed Sector Ln.  2.3        8.7     41.0      28.2      36.0    112.2         6.6        -26.8
Other foreign cr.   82.3       50.9     19.6      82.7     38.3    231.8         11.4         -2.2



- 20 -
6. Project Resu'ls
A. Direct Benefits
No direct benefits indicators were established at appraisal.
B. Economic Impact
1.        The only project components subjected to economic analysis were
the road rehabilitation and the road paving programs.  Both were analyzed
using the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model Version II (HDM II
model). Of the ten road rehabilitation and eight road paving subprojects
evaluated at appraisal (weighted average economic rate of return 75Z),
only one rehabilitation and two paving subprojects were completed under
the project. All subprojects that were added to the program during
implementation, 12 rehabilitation and 26 paving projects, were submitted
to previous economic analysis using the HDM II model. Of these additional
subprojects only two rehabilitation and five paving subprojects were
completed under the project. The economic evaluation of the ten completed
subprojects gave the following results:
Avorano Daily Traffic  Economic Rate of Roturn
Length   Initial              Initial
Subproloct                  Km       Evalustion1/ Actual  Evalustion1/ Actual
Rehabilitation
* Honda - Mesones        91.0      1,861    1,608        64        s8
Ventaquemada - Tunja     13.8      4,188   65,27         126        78
K219 - K284               It0       1,688    1,259        84        67
.3
Paving
Santa Rosa - VIllanuove    1-113     877      840        48         48
* Lorica - Momil         1 '         721      828        69        26
Son Oil- Barichers       1           881      690        50         67
* Aranzazu - Salamina    1S.t        482      419        a8         5
Pereira - Marsoll        IA.S        498    1,267         60        84
Giateque - Las Junta,    18.a        858      907         18       48
Fortalecills - Barays    30.V.       441      463        48         60
109.6
Weigthed Average                                                    67
1/ Figures indicated in these columns correspond to the values determined in the initial
evaluation of each subproject, only three of the roads completed (indicated with o)
had been included in the economic evaluation performed at appraisal.



- 21 -
C. Studies
Purposo as Defined
Item                      at Appraisal                 Status           ImDpct of Study
1.  Administration of     Define rooponsibilities      Not carried     MOPT acted unilaterally
the road network.    of national, departmental   out,              confirming existing
and municipal outhorities                    arrangements.  Lack of
in tho administration of                     adequate definition still
the road notwork,                            curtailing efficient
administration.
2.  Trucking              Propose measures to          Completed       Recommendations on needed
Regulations and       increase efficioncy of       10/01/84.        reformulation of laws and
Services,             road freight transport                        regulations, reorganization
and develop intermodal                       of MOPT's transport
serv ices.                                    uthority, strengthening of
lntermodol transport,
provision of transport
terminal, etc.
Implemntation continued
under Loan 2829-CO.
S. Road User Charges.   Recommend adjustment of        Completed       Development of a computer
road user charges in line   12/81/85.        model to analyze
with the policies on                         dltribution of road user
adequate pricing to be                       charges and recommendations
e3stblished.                                 to increase MOPT revenues.
Model has beon applied and
updated.
4. Upgrading of Road      Various studies to be        Ongoing.        Studies carried out under
Technology and        defined later to                             the Road Sector Project are
Highway               strengthon MOPT's                            the following:
Administration,       technology and
administration.
(a)  Study of         Invontory of slides in       Continued       Geomophologic and
Slopes,          the road network to study   under Loan       g-omechanic studies of
their causes and develop    2829-CO.         slides in five distinct
recommendations for their                    areas, and general
prevention,                                  recommendations on rood-
alignmsnt selection and
slope design were made.
(b)  Use of           Develop recommendations     Not              The study was not carried
Alternative      on the use in road           completed.      out consistently and did
Road             construction and                             not produce conclusivo
Materials,       maintenance of                               results.
alternotive naturally
available materials.



- 22 -
(c)  Use of           Develop technique for        Comploted        Produced excellent manuals
asphaltic        production and use of         12/81/87.       on the subject, trained
emulsions.       asphaltic emulsions In                        about 200 enginoers and
road conatruction and                        technician and initiated
maintenance and foster                        practical applications.
adequate application.                        Wide and eatisfactory use
of this technology has not
been Implemntod.
(d)  Updating of      Dovelop now                  Continued        Implementation was only
technical        specifications and           under Loan       started undor this project
specifications   guidellnes for road and      2829-CO.         and has been continued
and              bridge materials, design                      under Loan 2829-CO.
guidelines.      and execution.



- 23 -
7. Status of Loan Covenants
Section                 Covenant                                    Status of Comaliance
Loan Agreemene
3.01 (b)                FVN to submit basic data sheets and         All basic data sheets required were
othor documentation for subproj3cts to    received.
be financed by the Bank.
8.01 (c)                FVN to follow the implementation            There wer. continuous delays In the
schedule for each subproject.               execution of the subprojects.
3.01 (d)                FVN to evaluate subprojects In Part-A,    Compiled with.
according to agreed methodology and
ensure economic return of at least 12X.
3.01 (e)                FVN to give priority to maintenance,        Adequate balance between forecasted
rehabilitation and paving over neow road   expenditures was not fully
construction,                               achieved.
8.01 (f)                FVN to carry out transport industry         Report submitted in 1986;
study by September 1, 1988.                 Government implemented Its
recommendations under an action
plan agreed with the Bank.
8.01 (g) (;)            FVN to furnish Bank by July 1, 1988 the   The Institutional strengthening
program to implement Parts G and F (2).   program was carried out with Bank
assistance since early 1985. The
other studies were implemented 1985
through 1988.
3.01 (g) (ii)           FVN to furnish Bank by Dee mber 31,         Was not submitted on time; several
1982 a plan of action to Implement Part   draft plans of action were
E (training),                               discussed; training program was
satisfactorily started In 198.
8.06 (c)                FVN to exchange viws with the Bank          Revleos were carried out regularly.
about the project by April 30 and
October 81, every year.
6.02                    FVN to furnish to the Bank financial        Finoncial statements and auditing
statements and audited accounts by          were received more than a year late
Independent auditors,                       and were not completely
satisfactory.
6.04                    FVN to maintain expenditures on             Systematic accounting by
maintenance personnel and                   expenditure item  to control
administration below 50% of total           balance of expenditures was begun
maintenance expenditures.                   in 1986.  Ratio of 50% was barely
achieved.



- 24 -
Guarant. Aareement
3.01 (a)                MOPT to establish and maintain             Initially fulfilled, little
effective advisory units for pavement      effective, and later disbanded.
and equipment managoment system and
training.
3.01 (b)                MOPT to apply the pavement and             MOPT did not sueee d in extonding
equipment management systems in all        the pavement and equipment
districts by January 1, 1984.              management *yatwms beyond the four
initial districts under Loan
1479-CO.
3.02                   MOPT to establish policy for                Equipment procurement policy,
maintenance equipment procurement.          initially established In 1988, was
not updated.
3.03                   MOPT to adopt uniform pavement dosign       Studies were carried out,
criteria and materials specifications       Implementation of their
by September 30, 1988.                      recowaendations to be carried out
under the Second Road Sector
Project, Loan 2829-CO.
3.04 (a)               The Guarantor to establish a task force   The task force was established In
by March 1, 1988 to propare a plan for    December 1988; however, It did not
the administrativo distribution of the    complete the task.  Government took
rood network.                              unilateral action.
8.06                    The Guarantor to regularly update the      Delivery was made in December 1984.
National Transport Plan.  The first         A Transport Sector Strategy Note
update by December 81, 1988 with draft    was prepared in 1986, including
version for Bank comments by September    Bank comments.
30, 1988.
3.07 (b)                MOPT to Increase maintenance work by       MOPT developed an innovative system
contractors and to reach 600 km.           to contract routine maintnennce.
resoeling by 1986.                         Execution of periodic maintenance
by contract was not substantially
increased. Resealing target was
not achieved.
3.0OE                   The Guarantor to adjust road user          Substantial adjustments took place
charges to ensure cost coverage by each   in 1986 and early 1987, ensuring
user category.                             sdequats levels of cost-recovery
for the majority of vehicle
categories. Systematic monitoring
of road-user charges is being
carried out by MOPT.
3.09                    The Guarantor to furnish to the Bank by   Regulations needed for vehicle
January 31, 985 proposed amendment of    weight control were established in
vehicle weight violation pensitieo and    1984.  Procurement of dynamic
by December 31, 1988 proposed amendment   weighing scales to allow adequate
of vehicle regulations.                     vehicle weight control, carried
over from Loan 1479-CO, was also
not implemented under this Loan.



- 25 -
8.  Use of Bank Rsource.
A. Staff Innuts
Stage of
Frolsot Cycls                 FYO0  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85_ FY88  FY87  FY88  FY60  FY90       TOTAL
Through appraisal          1.5  81.2   4.6                                                        87.8
Appraisal through
Board sppror-l                        95 6                                                        95.6
Board approval through
Effoetiven*s                           5.4                                                         5.4
Supervision                                   24.1 14.8  13.5   6.5   9.2 10.0  11.0   5.4        94.5
T O T A L                  1.5  81.2 105.6  24.1 14.8  13.5  68.   0.2 10.0  11.0   5.4          282.8
8. Missionz
Stage of                   month      Numboa  of     Days in   Specislizationa            Porforunce       Typo of
Proiect Cycle               Yr         Ptrwnon       Fldt       Rtpreont ed2/             Rtinr./St tW*3/ P,b OL41
Thr-ugh appraisal          09/80            1           12      En
12/80           2            8      Ec. En
03/61           4            15      2Ec. 2En
07/81          10            15      4Ec, 3E?I, ITrS, IfA. ITrE
Appraisal through
BSrd Approval           01/82            4           10      lEa. 2En., IFA
Board Approvel
Through sffectivenes.  06/82             3            6      Ec. En. TrS                    I
Supervision             10/82            3            5      Ec. En. FA                     1
11/82           1            S      TrS
02/83           1            4      TrE
04/60           3           10      Ec, En. FA                     2                F.M
05/63           1            5       En
07/8S           1            3      En
09/8S           2            5       Ec. TrS
11/oS           3            6      Ec. En. F.A                    2                F, M
01/84           1            3      En
04/64           1            2       En                            2                F. M
06/84           a            6      Ec, En. FA                     2                F, M
11/84           1            6      En                                              F, 14
01/85           1            5       En
05/85           I            5      TrE
07/85           3            6       Ec, En  FA                    2                F. M
11/85           2            6      Ec. En                         2                F. M
04/86           3            6       Ec,En  FA                     3                F, M
09/86           1            4      En                             2                F, M
03/87           1            5       En                            2                F, M
10/87           3            4       lEc. 2En                      2                F. M
04/88           2            6       Ec, En                        2                F, M
03/89           2            4      Ec, En                         3                F, 0
.  Most  iesaion* *sre combined with supervision of other projecto in the Transport Sector.
J  Ec. Economist; En * Enginer; FA * Finsnc,aI Analyst.  TrS  Transport Spacialiet; TrE - Training Expert.
J  I . Minor Problem; 2 a Moderata Probles; 3 a Major Problems
J F . Financiel M4 * lMnegerial



- 26 -
3Ce  of  Co4i4ta Pl""Ase   * tl Prol-ej
(; n USJ' mlii...)
Aee,.elee  E-tln.e,                       Aeaapl
Foreron         s of                                   5 f
*                             Lace I   bcbe.ee         1o~~~e~     .....ELausim.Tote          Total
tl   Q           ILL  22M XL  im U;                     M    *eml
cUMula                    J,4  INA 0Uo  22J                     K2   iMJ    4               J
RtabFliItAtio          6o.0    66.*   176.0    59.6         50.6    74.5   125i.8       2.4
PSviR                  13.0    43.0    66.0    29.2         25.6    J6.0    61.6      25.6
1471-0o U.              -                -       -           7.4    17.9    25.3      10.o
am                                                             S 2.5  5.0     7.5      3.1
Roed Safety             4.8     4.6      9.6     8.8         0.9      1.6     2.5       1.1
Training                0.2     0.2      0.4     0.1              -           -         -
e        f                  LI      tI.,Q LI  LA     Li          Li      DAl     I         La
U.Int                   0.5     5.0      5.5     1.9         0.6      6.4     9.2      8.6
Read Safety             0.2     2.0      2.2     0.7         0.1      1.1     1.2      0.5
Traioing                0.1      1.0     1.1     0.4         -        -       -        -
Cemat;ng Ei4au;t        -        -       -       -           0.1      1.1     1.2      0.$
iSse md_ TdiuL
hini*MnsS         u      L       LI 2     L       Li          Li       Le      LA       La
Treewt Std              -       -        -       -           0.1      0.2     0.0      0.1
EilgZ                   -       -        -       -           0.2      0.6     1.0      0.4
Roe set,                0.7     0.7      1.4     0.4         . _
TechIcal Ssflceatlos -           -       -       -           0.4      0.2     0.S       0.8
Treigoin                0.J     0.3      0.6     0.2         0.1      0.2     0.3      0.1
E"Inowring              -        -       -       -           0.3      0.5     0.6      0.3
Special Caeee"a         5.0     5.0    10.0      3.4         -        -       -         -
fret End F*a                        La       la      L                    LA      La       LI
TOTAL                     142.8   152.3   Z95.   lO.            Il   106    21    10.
Perentage                  40.4    51.6   100.0                 37.4    62.6   100.0
k/ USS2.7 *i l ion ware conel led in Key 1984.



COLOMBIA                                     o          to         00        ISO        200        050        00
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
12                                                                        o                so                0D               150              2002 
Seventh Highwy Project                                                           wlts
___ Siath Highway Project
Fifth Highway Project
=    Major bridges
Paved tr-k rond
-        Fovea roads
-----JI`ipowed roads                                                                       N         0                                                . 2 /
     MOPT districts
aiReroads                                                       EtAeNoUOic         C @0-G-n  nin
Rai _  _   oao  discorti,sed                                                          n              o Feo*n    n         on     -     -
O     rternoatilal airports                                                     i            --
S    Paved airports
*    Urpaved airports                                                     0         j ni.n        nn       vsiiPOUtAt         /
Seaporb ts                                       CORI
, ... Novigoble rivers                                                                                       -o
ID Other rivers
Elevations above 1400 meters
Depoehnewt,  Itader-ia  ntd Crslisoeia t o.odories
_ Iternatiarol bourdoiaes
,e~~         slso tic           V.      Conei,nvn-i e Me-  0s
PANAMA rAneA                                                                                      U.   vv:ng&0on.
>uxON5313<;~~~OSon5tros      tGs                       Fo \           V E N E Z U E L A
! ii e>tosi                                                                                .               rrairnnol      ioh0 jlr  eo eonns0   2;
/                  'nnonio                                                             Pin 0-ic.4zo4#                navenn  e4n4innn\                       ion
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
ri.r                        ronin          \        raS2-ornoniob_ onin=tA As>>,S(  
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.p
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C -                                                                                        .. 
van    nciio            lm      ,4     C 7gh *nP* o--d-iei                                         _,
jr's~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~5unwtv                                 %Onin.1 _-            ennn -O  -/                0mm 5 i                  P0
^~ ~ ~~~~O                i                                 *vS.Oav0Ce/; =i0i
SAN~~~~~~i                                                       EX         inni  ri
AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
YLot~~~~~~~~~ ~                                           i0Tnn,in O>w_              Ononv              en-in',i/    \ j ENEZEAns
OnE                         !                        r5      e                             -                         _o _ sono\^e         ro  niOni  
SOnDO  -n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oic~~~SOT
.2   /   M i i r  C   2o1>    _g;g       _s   >         i      X                 _>Sn v.inmon                      nJ\oo  ;'               /*  ""(_>     </._
7/v .        non                                >Zomvmnini'>- sio  r0e'nn.nn.1                                                                                   XBGOA               -              ~
T.Qw  >4t, _-   t -                 5                                                  1 1o0ffi- _ .r v ~>s    -. noon 01.-v  _ii
L-n                       n                ni       r                  S   .. ....    ' ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nni 6'   no vn,-                                                                    enni        SA;                         ,,c..m. 
E.-                              n     C                                                                                                                                            S  To
v_. A- ii,I                                                                                    Vn-At
cnn an  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ BRZ'
EC.PADOR
ECUADOR                                                                                                                          "O~nnine
ND   rororkro  ,n-~~~~~~~~et 2 10n-~~~                                      o            tininn                   in
PERU2                                                                                                          W



