Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             u_   
Report No. 3656b-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
COLOMBIA
March 10, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit            =  Peso (Col$)
US$1                     =  Col$ 55 (as of July 1981)
Col$ 1                   =  US$0.01818
Fiscal Year
.January 1 - December 31
Units of Weight and Measures: Metric System
Metric                         British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                    = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)           = 2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
ACIC                    Colombian Association of Contractors
ADT                     Average Daily Traffic
CFT                     Transport Finance Corporation
CNR                     Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS              Colombian Port Authority
CONPES                  Social and Economic Policy Committee
DAAC                    Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics
DNP                     National Department of Planning
ESAP                    Advanced School for Public Administration
FAN                     National Aeronautics Fund
FIDECAFE                Coffee Producers' Association
FNCV                    National Rural Roads Fund
FVN                     National Highway Fund
GAM                     Pavement Management Support Group
HDM                     Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICD                     Inland Container Depot
IDB                     Inter-American Development Bank
INCORA                  Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
INTRA                   National Transport Institute
MOP                     Ministry of Public Works (Until 1976)
MOPT                    Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
(From 1976 Onward)
PIN                     National Integration Plan
SENA                    National Apprenticeship Training Service
STS                     Selection and Training Section
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
COLOMBIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............                                 1
A.  General  ...............................................    1
B. The Transport System ..................................      1
C.  Transport Planning, Coordination and Investment .......     4
D.  Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector ..............     6
II.  THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY ..............  . .................  7
A.    General   ...............................................  7
B.  Organization of the Road Transport Industry .... .......    8
C.    Regulation   .................................................. o ................  9
D.  Pricing and Road User Charges  ...........    10
E.  Intermodal Coordination .....     ..........................    11
III.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .....................................    12
A.  The Highway Network ...................................    12
B.  Traffic Characteristics       ................................    13
C.    Road  Safety  ...........................................  13
D.  Highway Administration .....     ...........................    14
E.  Highway Planning and Financing ....   ....................    16
F.  Highway Engineering and Construction Supervision   ......    17
G. Highway Maintenance .     . ..................... .         17
H. Training                 ....19
I. The Domestic Construction Industry..                        19
IV. MOPT'S 1982-1986 PROGRAM .20
A. General .20
B. MOPT's 1982-1986 Program and Financing .21
C. Program Components and Their Preparation, Evaluation
and Selection ..........     .....22
D. Institutional Measures .27
E.  Assessment of MOPT's Program and Impact on Sector Policies  28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia during July/August 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. Lars Nordin
(Economist), Jean-Claude Sallier (Engineer), and Pedro Geraldes (YP, Economist).
The mission was assisted during shorter periods by Messrs. Carlos F. de Castro
(Road Transport Specialist), Jacques Cellier (Economist), Ernesto Henriod
(Construction Industry Specialist), Sergio Miquel (Road Safety Specialist),
Giuseppe Morra (Training Specialist), and Rene Jarquin (Financial Analyst,
Consultant). The report has been edited by Ms. Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   BANK PARTICIPATION ........ ............................          29
A.  General ...............................................       29
B.  Conditions and Procedures for Eligibility of Subprojects    30
C.  Conditions and Procedures for Procurement and Bank
Financing of Contracts ................... .  ........      32
D.  Disbursement .............  .   .............................  33
E.  Semi-Annual Consultation and Monitoring ..............  .     35
F.  Bank Review of Subprojects .....      .......................  36
G.  Economic Justification . .. .............. ..... ......    37
H. Assessment of Risk .................................           38
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................    39
TABLES
1.1   -  National and International Freight and Passenger
Transport (1970-1979) ......................       .        41
1.2   -  Public Sector Investment in Transport (1972-1980) .....       42
1.3   - World Bank Group Involvement in Colombian Transport ...        43
2.1   -  Vehicle Registrations and Fleet Capacity (1973-1980) ...    44
2.2   -  Classification Standards for Trucking Companies ........    45
2.3   -  Petroleum Products Price Structure and Opportunity
Costs ...........................................................  46
2.4   -  Road User Taxes and Road Costs ....       ....................  47
3.1   -  Colombian Road Network (1980) ........  . .................    48
3.2   -  National Highway Network (1965-1980)          .      .        49
3.3   -  Intensity of Use of the Network ....      ...................  50
3.4   -  National Highway Fund Revenue and Expenditures
(1970-1980) ..................... ....................      51
3.5   -  Design Standards ...................      ...................    52
3.6   -  Design Standards for Road Upgrading ..        .................    53
4.1   - MOPT Program 1982-1986 (2 pages) ........... ...........   54-55
4.2   - MOPT 1982 Rehabilitation and Paving Program ...........    56
4.3   -  Road Safety Component ............... ..     ................    57
4.4   -  Technical Assistance for Road Safety Component ........       58
4.5   -  Estimated Maintenance Personnel to be Trained .........    59
4.6   -  Capital and Technical Assistance Expenditures .........    60
5.1   -  Bank Participation ..............  . ......................    61
5.2   -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements         ...................    62
5.3   - MOPT Tender Program for Construction, Rehabilitation
and Paving .................... . ......................    63
5.4   -  Bank-Supported Rehabilitation and Paving Subprojects ..       64
5.5   -  Status of Subproject Preparation ................. . . ....   65
5.6   -  Physical Targets ...... .................. ..............    66



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1     -  Completed and Ongoing Highway Projects ....      ...........   67
2     - Application of the Pavement Management System for the
Paved National Network......                                72
3     -  Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
f.or Training of Road and Mechanical Maintenance
Personnel .76
4     -  Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of Trucking
Rlegulation and Services .............................      80
5     -  Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subprojects .... ......    86
6     -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File .89
CHART
I  - MOPT Organization .91
MAP
IBRD 12553R- Colombia National Highway Network






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Colombia has an area of 1,139,000 km  and a population of 26.7 million
(mid-1980); during the last decade, the population has grown at a rate of
about 2.3% per annum. The country's main cities are in the western part of
the country, where the bulk of the economic activity is located. The Andes
mountains present formidable barriers to communication between the western and
eastern parts of the country and among the main population centers. It was
not until the early 1950s that, under the drive toward integration and
modernization, the transport network began to evolve into a national network.
1.02      The Magdalena River was the only transport route between the central
region and the Atlantic coast until, in the early 1960s, construction and
upgrading of the Western Road (Cartagena-Medellin-Cali-Pasto), the Eastern
Road (Santa Marta-Bucaramanga-Bogota-Neiva), and the two main transverse roads
that connect them in the central region were substantially completed. Since
1961, the Atlantic Railroad has provided a connection between the port of,
Santa Marta and the two major urban centers of Bogota and Medellin. During
the last 25 years, the country's port capacity and air transport services have
also expanded considerably.
1.03      During the period 1950-1980, the transport sector's contribution
to GDP grew at an annual rate of 6.0%, which is larger than the annual
growth rate of 5.8% of total GDP for the same period. At the same time, the
share of the transport sector in GDP rose from 5.1% in 1950 to 9.4% in 1980.
1.04      The Colombian inter-urban transport system moved about 22.5 billion
ton-km in 1980, of which about 80% was moved by truck over the national
highway network (Table 1.1). Coastal shipping accounted for about 9%, river
transport about 6%, railways some 4%, and aviation about 1%. Although agri-
cultural output dominates, manufactured goods are becoming an increasing share
of Colombian freight. Roads dominate passenger traffic, accounting for almost
73%, while aviation's share is about 25%; railways serve only about 2% of the
passenger traffic.
1.05      The Bank has had an active participation in the transport sector
during the past decade through a continuous involvement in highways, railways,
aviation, rural roads and, lately, ports. As a result, the Bank has played
an important role in the development and consolidation of the transportation
network. Bank involvement in the sector also supported improvements in
sectoral planning, policy formulation and related institutional measures.
The proposed Highway Sector Project represents a further strengthening and
development of the objectives pursued under the Bank's previous seven highway
projects in Colombia (Annex 1).
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highwajs
1.06     The highway subsector and its administration are discussed in
detail in Chapter III.



-2-
(ii) Railways
1.07      The railway network in service consists of about 2,705 km of single
track narrow gauge (0.914 meter) lines owned by the Government. The most
important routes, the Atlantic or Trunk Lines, between Santa Marta and
Bogota-Medellin, are 1,287 km long and carry over 70% of the total railway
traffic. The Pacific Lines serve only the Department Del Valle, linking
mainly the port of Buenaventura with the city of Cali. The connection
between the Pacific and Atlantic systems was interrupted in 1975 by land-
slides along a critical section of about 140 km south of Medellin; the section
has never been repaired. In view of potential new container traffic and
coal exports through the port of Buenaventura, a study is planned by CNR to
determine the feasibility of connecting the two systems by constructing a new
railway link between Ibague and Armenia. This would also help to balance
the import and export traffic through the port of Buenaventura.
1.08      The railway system is administered by the Colombian National Rail-
ways (CNR) created in 1963. Since 1960, the Bank has supported the expansion
and the upgrading of the CNR system through six projects (a seventh was approved
on February 16, 1982, para 1.10). The improvement of CNR's financial position
and of its operational efficiency has been the main objective of the latest
projects. During the early implementation of the sixth railway project
(Loan 926-CO, US$25.0 million, May 1973), CNR showed good performance. Freight
traffic increased from 1,198 million ton-km in 1972 to 1,329 million ton-km
in 1974, and passenger traffic increased from 398 million pass-km to 482
million pass-km for the same period. The working and operating ratios
surpassed agreed targets, and CNR produced a Col$ 10 million surplus in 1974.
After 1974, however, CNR encountered technical, financial and managerial
difficulties which caused its performance to deteriorate sharply. Freight
traffic also decreased to 1,139 million ton-km in 1975 because of a countrywide
economic slowdown which affected imports of wheat and fertilizer which had
been transported by CNR. Government interest in the railways appears to have
weakened during this period.
1.09      There has,been an upward trend in freight traffic since 1976, yet
the overall share of traffic moved by rail has continued to decline because
of deterioration in railway services. Although the competition with trucking
is increasing, rail freight is somewhat specialized in that the commodities
carried by rail are mostly low value bulk commodities moved over comparatively
long distances. The average haul is about 460 km. Passenger traffic has been
decreasing since 1976 because of the closure of a number of uneconomic services,
reductions in frequencies, rationalization of passenger trains and the shortage
of locomotives which has caused more cancellations in passenger trains, including
some on the Bogota-Santa Marta main line.



1.10      Renewed interest in the long-term viability of the railway has
been spurred by increasing energy prices and by the prospect of large-scale
haulage of coal from deposits in the central and eastern mountain ranges to
the ports. The National Transport Plan (para 1.21), stating that the railways
have an important advantage in transporting bulk commodities over long distances,
proposes measures to encourage this type of use of the network, including market-
ing strategies and rehabilitation of the track. The Bank, on February 16, 1982,
approved a Seventh Railway Project addressing the present needs of the railway,
focusing on institutional improvements and rehabilitation of CNR's physical assets.
(iii) Inland Waterways
1.11      The traditional importance of inland waterway shipping has decreased
because of the development of road and rail transport. The Magdalena and
Cauca Rivers, together with the man-made Canal del Dique which connects the
port of Cartagena with the Magdalena River, constitute a major transport
system, totaling 1,366 km of navigable waterways, which accounts for almost
all inland shipping. An IDB-financed project supports improvements to the
Canal del Dique. The Magdalena River is quite dependable in all seasons to
Gamarra (about 470 km from the Barranquilla river-sea terminal); beyond
there to Salgar (930 km from Barranquilla), only seasonal navigation is
possible. Other river systems (Amazonas, Orinoco, Atrato), although very
extensive, serve only intraregional transportation of small magnitude.
1.12      Bulk goods,  especially petroleum, fertilizer products and cement,
constitute the main freight movement. Total traffic in 1979 was about
1.5 million tons, of which 85% consisted of petroleum products. Freight
transport services are mostly in private hands, while the administration and
maintenance of the rivers and most ports are under the jurisdiction of the
Directorate responsible for inland waterways in the Ministry of Public Works
and Transportation (MOPT). Inland shipping has complemented rail traffic to
some extent, particularly for goods originating from and destined to the ports
of Cartagena and Barranquilla. Transshipments to both rail and road can be
effected at a number of river ports further upstream; however, the comparative
advantage of road transport relative to the combined river-rail or river-road
movements makes these combinations viable for just a few products.
(iv)  Ports
1.13      The principal seaports of Colombia are Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta on the Atlantic coast, and Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific
coast. They are administered by the Colombian Port Authority (COLPUERTOS),
which is an autonomous Government agency. For about a decade, this agency has
been improving transit storage and cargo-handling facilities with financing
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). About 3 million tons per year
move through the ports; of this total, more than 50% is handled by Buenaventura.
In all ports except Tumaco, the volume of inbound traffic is more than that of
outbound traffic, and only Buenaventura has significant cabotage traffic other
than oil, which is transported mainly from Tumaco to Cartagena via the Panama
Canal.



- 4 -
1.14      All five seaports are characterized by low labor productivity,
inefficient cargo handling and low demurrage charges, resulting in high
costs and overall port congestion. Surcharges have consequently been
levied on the ports. The use of containers, together with improvements
in port management, labor practices, facilities and pricing structure would go
a long way toward overcoming these problems. A UNDP-financed study, for wh:Lch
the Bank is executing agency in connection with a proposed port project, has
addressed these aspects and it is being reviewed by the Bank. Other bottlenecks
to evacuating freight from the ports are lack of coordination with road and
rail services and insufficient inland bulk storage facilities for grain
imports.
(v) Aviation
1.15      The aviation subsector developed very early in Colombia as a result
of the major problems to surface transportation caused by the topography.
Air transport is now a major passenger transport mode for both international
and intercity travel. Domestic freight, in terms of ton-km, has remained
stable in recent years. International freight traffic, however, has been
gaining importance. There are three major national airlines and eleven
foreign airlines providing international services, and there are ten additional
regularly scheduled domestic carriers. Since 1968, aviation has been governed
by the Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly
responsible to the President of the Republic. The financial arm of DAAC is
the National Aeronautics Fund (FAN).
1.16      There are some 70 airports whose standards vary widely.  In general,
those in the western half of the country are better developed than those in
the east. At present, seven of the airports in mainland Colombia and one
additional on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped to handle
international flights. In view of technological improvements in the aviation
field and the inherent difficulties of surface transport, aviation is most
likely to play an increasing role in passenger transport among major urban
centers. A new airport at Medellin and improvements to Bogota and Cartagena
airports are being implemented under a Bank-financed aviation project
(Loan 1624-CO).
C. Transport Planning, Coordination and Investment
1.17      The effort to complete the basic transport network has required
a considerable share of the country's total investments. Transport represented
about half of public investments in the late 1950s. In the 1960s, when the
trunk highway system and the Atlantic Railways were being completed, that
share rose to more than 60%. More recently, however, the transport infrastruc-
ture share of total public investments has been declining; in the late 1960s,
it was about 35% and, since 1976, it has been about 12%.



- 5 -
1.18      In 1980, about Col$ 19,195 million (about US$430 million) were
invested in the transportation sector (Table 1.2). Of this amount, about
86% was for highways and road transport (including national highways and
departmental and f'eeder roads), 7% for ports and inland navigation, 5%
for airports and 2% for rail transport (not including operating subsidies).
The continuous decline in railway investments partly explains the deteriorat-
ing performance of CNR.
1.19      The national transport system developed in a relatively short period
of time in response to heavy demands by the rest of the economy and to the
objectives of successive Governments of integrating regional markets and
opening up the economy to foreign trade. By and large, the capability of the
transport sector institutions did not keep pace with the rapid growth of their
increasingly complex responsibilities. Responsibility for transport policy was
distributed among Ministries, regional and local governments and decentralized
agencies, each of which played an important role in creating the rules and regu-
lations governing its own activities. Consequently, there was little coordination
among modes and a lack of regional planning. Until 1966, when, by Decree 3160,
an attempt was made to tie in the various entities in charge of transportation
with the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), no framework allowing central planning
and policy formulation existed. Ministerial control remained limited, and the
lack of coordination persisted.
1.20      More recently, however, there has been considerable strengthening
of sector institutions, with the establishment of central control of the
sector under MOP, which became the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT). This process involved a restructuring in 1976 and a reorganiza-
tion in 1980, with the creation of a Sectoral Planning Office and a National
Transport Council respectively (Chart I). The National Planning Department
(DNP) also maintains an overall coordinating role and has a transport section
in its infrastructure division. The Sectoral Planning Office of MOPT is
responsible for carrying out intermodal planning and coordination. In addition,
budgets and investment programs for all modes, except pipelines and aviation,
require MOPT apprc,val. The National Transport Council, which is an advisory
body instituted to achieve sectorwide coordination, is headed by MOPT's Vice
Minister and includes representatives of the transport industry and the
Colombian Engineering Society.
1.21      The National Transport Plan, prepared by the Sectoral Planning
Office of MOPT in 1980, defines the role and goals of each mode and outlines
investment programs and their financing. It also establishes guidelines for
the distribution of responsibilities for planning, construction and maintenance
of the transport network among national and regional agencies. In brief,
MOPT's Sectoral Program (Chapter IV) is consistent with the priorities set up
in the National Transport Plan and identifies investment requirements, in
constant July 1981 prices, of about Col$ 120,000 million (US$2.2 billion) for
the period 1982-1986, which would represent a substantial increase in the annual
level of expenditure over the late 1970s and would end a period of underinvestment
in the sector.



1.22      Future revisions of the Plan would place increased emphasis on
(a) sector objectives within the framework of the National Economic Policy,
(b) maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, (c) intermodal coordi-
nation, (d) transport safety, (e) transport pricing, and (f) energy con-
siderations. The Secretariat of the National Transport Council (MOPT's
Sectoral Planning Office) would take the initiative of meeting regularly with
the representatives of all autonomous institutions related to the transport
sector in order to prepare sector policies and programs to be analyzed by
the National Transport Council and later incorporated into the National
Transport Plan. The long-term goal would be to integrate the programs of
the different transport modes into a more comprehensive transport sector
framework to efficiently meet Colombia's transport requirements. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would regularly review
progress made in achieving sectoral objectives and update the National
Transport Plan, a first revision of which would be produced by December 31,
1983 (in draft form by September 30, 1983).
1.23      The present administration's development strategy combines expansion
of the economic infrastructure, designed to integrate regional markets, with a
return to export-led growth and increased emphasis on improving allocation
efficiency. The renewed emphasis on transport infrastructure, combined with
efforts to accelerate integrated economic growth, seems appropriate at this stage
of Colombia's development. Transport costs are high and discourage interregional
and external trade. With these costs lowered, transport services made more reli-
able, and incentives provided for investments in areas with growth potential, a
substantial boost could be given to interregional and external trade and to
overall economic growth and employment generation.
1.24      The financing of the transport sector is arranged through a combi-
nation of (a) National Funds, e.g., the National Highways Fund, the National
Rural Roads Fund, and the National Aeronautics Fund which are supplied by
specific tax revenues, Government contributions and external financing; and
(b) general revenues collected by the transport entities from their customers,
e.g., CNR and COLPUERTOS. The transport sector institutions have a policy
of cost recovery, and their pricing policies are generally adequate. However,
in practice, its implementation has been weakened, e.g., CNR has had to resort
to Government contributions to finance its operating deficits because of manage-
ment difficulties and operational inefficiency, in particular lack of motive
power. Existing cross-subsidies, e.g., between import and export tariffs in
the ports and between freight and passenger tariffs on the railways, are not of
major significance. The subsidization of road transport is being reduced with
the phased increases in gasoline prices (para 2.17). A remaining problem is the
inadequate level of charges on intercity road freight transport (para 2.18).
D. Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
1.25      The Bank has played an important role in the development of Colombia's
transport sector. Its involvement dates back to 1949, when a transport sector
mission reported the transport system to be in an exceptionally bad condition.
Since 1950, the Bank has lent about US$551 million 1/ in 23 loans to the sect:or
(Table 1.3). These investments supported the construction of an integrated
1/   Including an IFC operation for pipeline development.



highway network and, more recently, have contributed to the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the national network and to the development of an improved highway
organization (Annex 1). They have also contributed to the construction of
over 670 km of main line on the Atlantic railroad from Dorada to Fundacion,
as well as to the rehabilitation of other lines. The domestic aviation project
is helping to improve basic aviation infrastructure and to improve subsector
efficiency and planning.
1.26      Bank involvement in Colombia's highways (Annex 1) has gone through
three distinct phases. The first covers the years 1951 to 1961, in which four
projects which had the basic characteristic of sector loans (one was an IDA
credit) supported the country's first Highway Plan.  In the second period, from
1961 to 1970, three loans financed the construction and upgrading of limited
sections of the trunk system. The move away from sector lending was prompted
by the preference prevailing at that time in the Bank for tight and clearly
defined projects, with focus on engineering of specific road sections. After
a hiatus of seven years awaiting absorptive capacity improvements in MOPT and,
in particular, the establishment of a sound pricing policy with respect
to hydrocarbons, the Bank resumed lending for highways in 1977 (Loan 1471-CO).
At that time, the Bank returned in part to the sector approach since, in
addition to financing the improvement of a specified number of kilometers, it
tackled the country's deficient highway maintenance efforts by financing
technical assistance and a program of acquisitions to improve equipment
management. After an initial delay of about two years, the project is now
proceeding well. Also, the recent loan for rural roads (Loan 1966-CO) follows
a sector approach in that the Bank finances a portion of the program of the
Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (FNCV), the specialized Government agency
responsible for rlral roads. The selection criteria for individual subprojects
were developed by the Government with Bank assistance. The project covers
FNCV planning and programing procedures, and provides that only roads that
have a rate of return higher than the estimated opportunity cost of capital
are eligible for financing under the loan. It also supports FNCV's maintenance
and rehabilitation policies and improves coordination between physical and
financial programing.
II. THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY
A.   General
2.01      The Colombian transport system moved about 21.5 billion ton-km of
intercity freight in 1979. This traffic has been growing at an average
5.0% p.a. over the past ten years. Road transport has continuously increased
its share of freight movements, and is now about 81% of the total, at
the expense of both rail and river transport (para 1.04). Development of
road transport has been influenced by a fairly extensive highway infrastruc-
ture in the highlands and by limited modal competition. It has been more
important around the main urban areas of the Departments of Cundinamarca,
Antioquia, and Valle; these departments account for about 70% of the regis-
tered trucking companies and for about 65% of the truck fleet capacity.



- 8 -
2.02      The number of trucks operated for-hire was estimated at almost
60,000 units, yielding an overall capacity of 466,000 tons (Table 2.1). Small
trucks are still the norm: 87% of them carry less than 12 tons payload; in
general, they are 6 or 8 ton single rear axle trucks. The number of large
trucks (over 12 tons), however, has been increasing at an annual rate of 16%
over the last seven years, and their transport capacity now accounts for more
than one-third of the total. The vehicle fleet operated for public transport
of passengers was estimated at 89,000 units in 1980, of which 33,000 were
buses or minibuses and 50,000 were passenger cars (urban or inter-urban taxis).
2.03      The total capacity of the fleet of trucks is sufficient to meet
the demand under the presently poor operating conditions. Average load factors
are low, of the order of 55%, although overloading is a common practice; there is
a high proportion of empty truck movements due to the lack of return load.
Another factor contributing to low overall efficiency is the composition of
the fleet, which includes a high proportion of small trucks. Although they were
appropriate for the mountainous portions of the highway network, the small
trucks are now aging (many of them are 20-year old models or older) and still
gasoline-powered. Nowadays, they cannot compete with larger diesel-powered
truck and trailer units on long hauls.
2.04      The present situation of the truck fleet is mainly the result of
regulatory measures introduced in the late 1960s and early 1970s (Section C).
Although apparently aimed at improving operating efficiency, regulation has led
to a restrictive environment in which major companies control the provision of'
for-hire public transport (Section B) and has considerably slowed down the
renewal of aging trucks and the modernization of the fleet.
2.05      Modal coordination of transport services has not been developed
either. There are opportunities for cost savings through intermodal services
in major corridors, but they have been hampered by the inefficiency of the
railway. Containerization of cargoes will help to foster the development of
intermodal transport if adequate facilities are provided for intermodal
transfers.
B. Organization of the Road Transport Industry
2.06      As of October 1980, there were 405 licensed road freight transport
companies. Owner-operators must associate themselves with such companies;
this is known as "affiliation." Through affiliation, trucking companies have
gathered an average of over 100 trucks each, which is a relatively high level
of syndication. The major portion of the fleet (about 92%) is owned and
operated by affiliated owner-operators.
2.07      In 1980, there were 617 companies licensed to perform passenger
transport services. These companies served 167 urban centers and nominally
controlled about 89,000 passenger vehicles, of which about 60% were for urban
services and the remaining 40% for inter-urban services. This fleet moved
about 12.4 billion passenger-km in 1980. In passenger transport, however,
affiliation of independent owner-operators to companies holding licenses
has often been made through cooperative membership (87% of the fleet).
This type of association links both the vehicle and the individual owner to
the cooperative and results in a closer link than simple company affiliation.



-9-
C.   Regulation
2.08      The regulatory system is complex; it is documented through several
laws and decrees, the most important of which is Decree No. 1393 of 1970
which contains the Road Transport Law with subsequent addenda. These
regulations: (a) provide standards of qualification for transport companies
(freight and passenger); (b) make it compulsory for all vehicles performing
freight transport services to use a National Bill of Lading (Planilla
Unica de Carga) sold by the National Transport Institute (INTRA) to licensed
companies; (c) authorize INTRA to control the growth of the fleet; and
(d) authorize the Government to control the weights and dimensions of vehicles.
INTRA was created in 1968 as an autonomous agency which reports to MOPT
and implements and enforces regulations and Government policies concerning
the road transport subsector.
2.09      Transport companies are evaluated by INTRA through a point system
rating company capital, transport capacity (company-owned and affiliated),
operational efficiency, quality of service, labor conditions, and level of
organization. They are licensed for carrying general cargo and/or special
services and for operating in specific geographical areas. Licenses are
urban, departmentaLl (within the same department), interdepartmental (four
or fewer neighboring departments) or national. However, the geographical
regulation is of little relevance because about 80% of the companies have a
national license. Licensed companies are also classified into three categories -
A, B and C - which mainly reflect their size and company-owned transport
capacity. Table 2.2 shows these classification standards. The companies at
present are roughly equally distributed in the three categories; however,
few of them comply with the ratio of company-owned capacity required by law.
2.10      Licensing of trucking companies was aimed at improving the efficiency
of the industry and increasing the security of the cargo by discouraging vehicle
owners from operating individually. The objective was the gradual integration
of owner-operators into small companies. The regulation was aimed at providing
owner-operators, through company membership, with the necessary means for
commercialization (return load, brokerage services), security (insurance), and
access to financing. However, over time, the regulation has led to a restrictive
situation where (a) a limited number of companies control the provision of
for-hire public transport; (b) these companies set tariffs charged to shippers
and rates paid to affiliated owner-operators; (c) owner-operators have no
legal status (except through affiliation) and therefore have no access to
credit; and (d) a secondary market has developed where brokerage fees can be
as high as 40% of the transport price. Easier entry into the industry and
direct access to credit would help individual truckers to improve their
efficiency. The proposed project includes a study of the impact of the
regulation on the efficiency of transport services. A Government commitment
to simplify and update the regulatory framework should be the basis for
further examination of this issue during project execution.
2.11      The Law requires that goods moved on any public road among two or
more Departments be carried under a National Bill bf Lading. It is the document
which engages the responsibility of the carrier toward the shipper for the
services described. It is issued by INTRA, and sold to licensed companies
at a cost of 20 pesos (US$0.40); those companies, in turn, resell the document
to their affiliatedl truckers at a high premium. Direct sale of the Bill of
Lading to any qualified carrier, including individual owner-operators, would
be preferable and would be examined in the study mentioned in paragraph 2.17.



- 10 -
2.12      The National Bill of Lading can be a valuable source of statistical
information on the road transport industry. Its use has so far been limited to
the evaluation of interdepartmental commodity flows. Joint efforts from INTRA
and MOPT's Sectoral Planning Office will be required to make more systematic use
of it.
2.13      INTRA is authorized to control additions to the fleet by recom-
mending to the Automotive Industry Coordination Committee (in which the
Minister of Economic Development, the Superintendent of Industry and Commerce
and the Foreign Trade Institute (INCOMEX) are represented) the number of
vehicles of various characteristics to be assembled or imported during the
year. For 1980-1981, the number of vehicles imported was only 504, mostly
large units. These controls are meant to stabilize the industry and avoid
excess supply; in practice, however, control of public transport capacity has
preserved the market position of existing companies and has affected the
quality of trucking services by slowing down modernization.
2.14      Colombia's regulation of vehicle axle weight authorizes maximum
loads of 8.2 tons for single axle, 14.5 tons for tandem axles and 31.4 tons
for multiple axle groups. This is significantly lower than in the other
Andean Group countries, in particular in those which, as Colombia did, signed
the Cartagena Agreement of 1970, which specifies maximum loads of 11 and 16
tons for single and tandem axles respectively. In November 1978, MOPT proposed
an increase in legal load limits to 9.3 tons for single axles and 17.5 tons
for tandem axles. However, since the Andean Pact countries are reviewing the
presently agreed limits, no final action has been taken. The Seventh Highway
Project (Loan 1471-CO) includes the study and the subsequent implementation
of a plan of action to update regulations and to improve enforcement on high
traffic routes. MOPT has contracted a consulting firm (TECHNOCONSULTA) which,
in December 1981, presented MOPT with recommendations for the setting up of a
system of weighing stations. During negotiations, MOPT confirmed that it
would install and start operating these stations by December 31, 1983.
D.   Pricing and Road User Charges
2.15      The Government policy is that the costs of road infrastructure
should be recovered mainly through a tax imposed on fuel and partly through
tolls on specific roads with sufficient traffic. The costs of administering
the road transport industry should be recovered through company licensing,
vehicle registration fees, and other charges. Taxation and import quotas on
vehicles are aimed at protecting the domestic industry and comply with Andean
Group regulations. Domestic assembly quotas also comply with these regulations.
2.16      In 1980, the National Highway Fund (FVN) revenues from taxes on gasoline
and gas-oil accounted for about 70% of MOPT's total expenditures for road infra-
structure and administration, and net receipts from tolls accounted for almost
2% (para 3.17). Supplementary funding, which was achieved mainly through the
Government budget and, to a minor extent, through external financing, was approxi-
mately equivalent to the Government revenues from import taxes on vehicles and
parts which fall into the Government budget. Total revenues of INTRA from
licensing and registration (Col$ 441 million) also covered the costs of road
transport administration (Col$ 362 million). In conclusion, the policies of
paragraph 2.15 are being implemented, and total charges against vehicles and
their operation largely cover MOPT road expenditures.



- 11 -
2.17      Successive Governments in Colombia have taken action to move petroleum-
based fuel prices "at the pump" in the direction of international prices. The
latest increase, effected on December 5, 1981, has brought the retail price of
regular leaded gasoline 1/ (representing the major portion of gasoline sales)
virtually to the level of international prices, or the estimated opportunity
cost. Table 2.3, which is summarized below, shows the current structures for
gasoline and diesel fuel.
Gasoline         Diesel
(USJ per gallon, at
Col$ 57.27 = US$1.00; Dec. 81)
Retail Price                               96             96
International price                      100.9           103.8
(c.i.f. Barranquilla)                  (91)            (92.4)
(transport cost)                        (5)             (5)
(distributor's margin)                  (4.9)           (6.4)
Retail price as a percentage of
international price equivalent          95%             92%
2.18      Although total fiscal revenue from road user charges corresponds
to overall Government highway expenditure, the analysis of charges levied
on each category of users shows that trucks and, to a lesser extent, buses
are charged less than the infrastructure cost that should be attributed
to them (Table 2.4). 2/ Under-taxation of trucks is a source of price dis-
tortion in inter-city transport in relation to road-railway competition.
It is one objective of the proposed Study of Road Transport Regulation and
Modal Alternatives, which is included in the project (para 4.19), to assess
charges paid by various categories of users and to examine resulting distor-
tions and recommend specific remedial action.
2.19      The revision and updating of the National Transport Plan would
also address the issue of road user charges within the framework of policies
concerning public financiers, modal coordination and energy conservation and
production (para 1.22). During negotiations, the Government confirmed
its policy to take, from time to time, necessary actions to adjust charges
to cover relevant infrastructure costs by various categories of road users.
E.   Intermodal Coordination
2.20      At present, the chances of intermodal services being developed
either between road and rail or between river and rail would seem remote
if rail services are not improved substantially in major corridors and brought
1/   Regular leaded gasoline in Colombia has an estimated octane level of 80,
compared to 88 in the United States; leaded premium in Colombia has
about 92 octanes, while US premium has 93.
2/   The road user charges paid correspond to only 70% of attributable road
cost for trucks and only 50% for truck and trailer units.



- 12 -
to a more competitive footing with trucking. On the other hand, a wider
use of containers and modal alternatives (freight-consolidation centers,
trailer leasing) could increase CNR's efficiency and the efficiency of trucking
services, and would foster intermodal coordination with international freight-
forwarding services.
2.21      Containerization has been developing quickly at the ports.  Betweaen
1975 and 1980, the number of container movements (inbound and outbound)
doubled from about 7,900 to about 16,600 TEUs. Clearance of container freight
at inland points (unstuffing or stuffing) has been authorized by the customs
authorities, but nonetheless over 95% of this work is carried out in the ports,
causing congestion, damage, unnecessary expense, and partially defeating thes
purpose of the container service. The availability of inland container
depots (ICD) would encourage container transport and increase the safety factor.
2.22      Intermodal facilities and systems such as freight consolidation
centers and equipment leasing have not yet been developed but their need
is perceived. A feasibility study for freight consolidation facilities serv-
ing the Cali-Buenaventura corridor is being carried out by CENCAR Ltda at the
initiative of the Cauca Valle Corporation (CVC) and with the support of INT]RA
and the Transport Finance Corporation (CFT). The purpose of intermodal freight
consolidation centers in Colombia would be threefold: first, they would
provide a commercial substitute to the legal system of affiliation by providing
the trucker with the services (commercialization, maintenance facilities, and
insurance) that transport companies are supposed to provide in accordance with
the spirit of the Transport Law but, in fact, do not provide; second, they
would operate as ICDs and encourage the movement of containers inland; and
third, they would concentrate a sufficient amount of transport demand to
encourage the development of intermodal services and such services as trailesr
leasing and freight forwarding.
2.23      MOPT is aware of the need to update the regulatory framework of
the transport industry and to support the development of terminal facilities
to improve the efficiency of the industry and to foster intermodal services.
MOPT has set up a task force, consisting of staff from INTRA under the supervision
of the Vice-Minister, to prepare a detailed plan of action. A study of the
trucking regulation and services is included in the proposed project (para 4.19).
III. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      Colombia has a road network totaling about 77,200 km (Table 3.1),
of which about 23,100 km constitute the national highway system under the
jurisdiction of MOPT. The Secretariats of Public Works of the Departments
have approximately 40,400 km and FNCV has approximately 11,400 km of roads.
The balance of about 2,300 km of roads are private or in the National Territories.
About one-third (7,900 km) of the national system is paved, while only about
2% (900 km) of the departmental roads are paved. The remaining two-thirds of
the national network are gravel or unsurfaced roads. The major part of the
Departmental or FNCV networks are earth roads.



- 13 -
3.02      The national highway system consists of (a) the primary road network,
of about 10,500 km, that connects the main economic centers among themselves
and with the seaports and neighboring countries; and (b) secondary roads, of
about 12,400 km, that link smaller towns to the primary network and roads
that provide access to other transportation modes (e.g., river ports). The
regional road system comprises secondary roads that link regions of the
departments among themselves, low traffic interdepartmental roads and rural
roads that provide access to isolated regions. The national highway network
increased in theB period 1965-1980 by some 30%, while, in the same period, the
length of its paved fraction increased by some 125% (Table 3.2). The primary
road network has reached a stage of development where the main emphasis should
be on rehabilitation and maintenance. The secondary road network is still
in the course of consolidation; hence, high priority should be assigned to
selective upgrading and paving. New construction is presently of lower priority.
B. Traffic Characteristics
3.03      The major part of the national highway network is regularly covered
by a traffic cotnting system which includes automatic traffic counting stations,
supplemented by manual counting. The number of automatic traffic counting
stations increased from 19 in 1974 to 34 in 1979. The traffic counting
procedures have been modified, starting January 1, 1982, to further disaggregate
the traffic by vehicle types. Traffic in vehicle-km (Table 3.3) increased
at an average arnual rate of 8.6% in the period 1968-1979; the growth has
been around 6% since 1975. It is estimated that, during 1968-1979, 80% of the
traffic in vehicle-km was concentrated on 30% of the national network. The
corresponding 7,000 km have received priority consideration in the formulation
of the Governmernt's highway policy.
3.04      In 1980, 11% of the national highway network had an average daily
traffic (ADT) greater than 2,000. Some 1,820 km of unpaved roads, with
an ADT greater than 400, are immediate candidates for paving. The breakdown
of the national highway network, following the ADT range, is presented in
the table below:
National Highway Network                   TOTAL
ADT Range             0-    501-  1,001-  2,001- > 4,000
500   1,000   2,000   4,000    4
Paved (km)          843   1,917   2,967   1,812        707             8,246
ADT Range             0-    201-    401-          700
200     400      700
Unpaved (km)      9,214   3,850   1,450       370                     14,884
23, 130
C. Road Safety
3.05      Colombia has an adequate Traffic Code integrated into a Transport
Ordinance of 1968, entrusting INTRA with the responsibilities of road safety
management. The municipalities of Bogota and other major cities exert separate
control over road safety matters within their respective jurisdictions.



- 14 -
However, public authorities, in the past, have given limited attention to
basic aspects of traffic management. Road design does not consistently include
safety features; driver licensing and vehicle registration are mere formalities;
vehicle inspection is carried out sporadically and superficially; traffic law
enforcement is weak; and, finally, statistical information on vehicle fleet
and traffic accidents is scattered and inconclusive. According to information
available, Colombia ranks as one of the countries with the highest incidence of
road traffic accidents. 1/ Public opinion, however, has been aroused by
recently well publicized traffic accident statistics, and the Government has
indicated its intention to take corrective action. Under the proposed project,
MOPT and INTRA would initiate a coordinated program to upgrade road safety features
and to strengthen traffic management (para 4.15).
D.   Highway Administration
(i) Subsector Organization
3.06      MOPT is in charge of the construction and maintenance of the national
network. Other major entities are also involved in the administration of the
road network, reflecting the distribution of responsibilities among National,
Departmental and Municipal levels. Twenty-three Departments are in charge of
their corresponding secondary and rural roads through their Secretariats of
Public Works. FNCV is in charge of the construction, upgrading, and maintenance
of rural roads in cooperation with Departmental and other authorities, through
its 24 Regional Directorates. Finally, other ministries and institutions are
also involved in rural roads, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Colombian
Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) and the Coffee Producers' Association
(FIDECAFE). The organizational arrangements for road administration are thus
adequate. However, given the Government's policy of decentralization, the
relations between MOPT and FNCV, on the one hand, and the Departments, on the
other hand, need to be redefined (para 4.24).
(ii) MOPT's Organization
3.07      Recently, organizational changes have strengthened MOPT's administra-
tive capacity (Chart I). By Executive Decree dated May 14, 1980, a Technical
Secretariat was created, thereby subdividing the central administration into
two main units, the other being the General Secretariat. These Secretariats
report directly to the Minister or to the Vice Minister in his capacity as
advisor or regarding matters which have been delegated by the Minister. The
General Secretariat comprises three Directorates: Bidding and Contracting;
Commercial and Financial; and Industrial Relations, under which the Personnel
Division operates. The Computing Activities Services, the Treasury and the
Budget and Accounting System also form part of the General Secretariat.
3.08      The Technical Secretariat comprises the Directorates of National
Properties, Navigation and Harbors, and Highways. The Highways Directorate
is in charge of MOPT's highway road programs. Four subdirectorates operate
under the Highways Directorate: Projects, Supervision, Equipment and Assessment.
In addition, the Highways Directorate is responsible for MOPT's 26 Districts
which carry out road maintenance (para 3.24) and supervise all MOPT contracts
directly.
1/   Three fatalities per year for each thousand vehicles registered, as
compared to 1.5 for Spain, 1.0 for Ireland and 0.5 for the United States
and the United Kingdom.



- 15 -
3.09      Along with the creation of the Technical Secretariat, other adminis-
trative changes have taken place, such as the separation of the Highway Planning
Office from the Sectoral Planning Office, thereby enabling the latter to focus
its activity on the overall sectoral programs and issues while the Highway
Planning Office is concentrating on the highway subsector. Nevertheless, the
handling and recording of data related to the technical and financial project
execution should be improved by centralizing, within MOPT's Highways Directorate,
selected information provided by the Districts and Central offices involved in
project administration (para 4.26). Another important development has been the
creation of a National Transport Council (para 1.20), which is headed by MOPT's
Vice Minister and includes representatives of the transport industry and the
Colombian Engineering Society. The Sectoral Planning Office acts as its
Secretariat.
3.10      MOPT is also implementing further measures to strengthen some
technical and administrative units (para 4.24). The administrative capacity
of MOPT and its organizational framework are thus considered adequate to
manage a Highway Sector Project.
3.11      MOPT's total personnel of about 13,000 employees, which includes
about 11,100 staff in the Districts, is more than enough to carry out its
functions and remains high because of staff seniority status and labor union
support of its members. MOPT's total professional staff is about 780, divided
between the Headquarters in Bogota and the Districts. Officers in the Districts
are almost entirely engineers. In Bogota, some 10% of the staff are engineers
and the rest are lawyers, economists, accountants and administrators. Most of
the professional personnel as well as the senior staff are experienced and
capable. MOPT has, over recent years, managed to keep its staffing level
constant and will, under the 1982-1986 Program, pursue its policy of contain-
ment of payroll expenditures (para 3.24).
3.12      MOPT's employees are public servants, and their remuneration is
subject to a salary scale established by law (Decree No. 50 of 1981). The
law provides for six categories of salary ranging from the lowest operative
category with an average remuneration of Col$ 8,200 per month (US$150) to the
highest category with salaries up to Col$ 62,000 monthly (US$1,125). In order
to retain high caliber professionals in key positions, MOPT also has the authority
to contract experienced engineers/planners at rates above this maximum which are
more in line with those of the private sector.
(iii) Accounting and Auditing
3.13      MOPT's accounting and financial functions are the responsibility
of its Commercial and Financial Directorate consisting of the Budget
and Accounting, Treasury, and Commercial Divisions. MOPT's accounting system
operates on the basis of the Government's Manual of Accounting applicable to
all Public Sector Institutions. The accounts reflect MOPT and FVN (para 3.17)
activities separately and provide good control of all the expenditures for
project execution. The Accounting Section prepares monthly and annual
balance sheets which are submitted to the General Comptroller of the Republic.
The present system of accounting meets the basic requirements for budget
administration and control. It is a long way from a modern management infor-
mation system. The gradual introduction of cost accounting for maintenance
activities is part of the current effort to increase the efficiency of main-
tenance (para 3.21).



- 16 -
3.14      The Government's annual budget, once approved by the Congress,
becomes a law through which the annual appropriations are made for MOPT
and FVN, either with ordinary resources or with externally contracted funds.
FVN's own budget is included in the national budget as an annex. Budget
execution is the responsibility of the Commercial and Financial Directorate
through its Budget and Credit Section. The funds are verified by the Accounting
Section, as well as by the Internal Auditing and by a delegate of the GeneraLl
Comptroller of the Republic. For the execution of FVN's budget, the Minister
of Finance assigns a monthly quota based on an "Agreement of Payment,"
and the corresponding amount is deposited in a special account. In order
to meet contractual obligations, Directors of the Executing Units request
from the Financial Director the allocation of corresponding funds.
3.15      The Office of the General Comptroller of the Republic, through
its International Finance Auditing Division, performs an annual audit of the
programs financed with external funds. The scope of the corresponding review
is based upon generally accepted rules set up for financial and operative
auditing, which include the review of the registers and control system as well
as the evaluation of the operative procedures, as needed.  During appraisal,
an example of an annual audit was reviewed and found satisfactory. It
includes the standard requirements plus a review of the statement of invest--
ments, as well as an evaluation of the physical progress and the fulfill-
ment of contractual provisions. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
that it would cause MOPT to maintain separate accounts for the project
and would audit MOPT and the National Highway Fund annually and furnish the
audit to the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year.
E.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.16      In the past, overly ambitious programs have been undertaken without
considering the overall level of resources, and the real implementation capa-
bility of the Administration and of the construction industry. This situatiLon
has changed since 1978 in favor of a more comprehensive planning approach.
The Government's National Integration Plan (PIN) and the National Transport
Plan constitute the basic framework for the definition of objectives in
the highway subsector (Chapter IV). The achievement of those objectives
requires comprehensive methodologies, which can be used continuously, to
identify, analyze and finally select annual programs. Under the Seventh
Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO), and in the course of preparation for the
proposed project, an extensive set of planning and programing methodolo-
gies was introduced, such as the Pavement Management System (para 4.13), the
Equipment Management System (para 4.14), a preselection methodology for pav-Lng
works, and the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM) (para 4.09). These
tools are, after an initial testing stage, being gradually integrated into
MOPT's modus operandi.
3.17      The highway subsector is financed by FVN.  FVN has three major sources
of revenues: (a) incomes generated by the subsector's services and facilit:Les;
(b) tax revenues and budgetary allocations; and (c) credits from national and
international financial institutions. Most of the annual budget (Table 3.4) is
financed by the receipts of the special gasoline/diesel tax and through direct
allocations from present Government revenues. During the period 1975 to 1980,
Government support to the highway subsector, through the gasoline/diesel tax income,



- 17 -
increased steadily from Col$ 1,654 million in 1975 to Col$ 10,754 million
(US$227.5 million) in 1980, an increase of 117% in constant terms. These
increases reflect the growth of consumption as well as raises in gasoline
prices (para 2.17). Over the past five years, the gasoline tax has accounted
for over 70% of the National Highway Fund's revenues.
F.   Highway Engineering and Construction Supervision
3.18      Colombian geometric design standards for new roads (Table 3.5) are
well adapted to the various and often difficult Colombian conditions. The
geometric design standards are divided into six classes of traffic and four
types of terrain, allowing for an adequate choice of geometrical characteristics.
Additional geometric design standards were also developed for the specific
problems raised by road upgrading (Table 3.6). These additional standards are
reasonable and aim at preserving the existing investments without jeopardizing
basic capacity requirements. Only limited improvement to geometric design
would be permitted for Bank-financed rehabilitation and paving works.
3.19      MOPT does not have a consistent policy for pavement design; also,
construction specifications and quality standards need to be adapted to the
specific conditions of various regions. The Pavement Management System (para 4.13)
and the recommendations of a road materials study financed by Loan 1471-CO are
the first steps toward the fulfillment of these goals. The road materials study
is being carried out by MOPT in three zones covering the national road network.
One study in the northern zone started in February 1981 and is proceeding well
with local consultants. Two more consultant firms. have been selected to start
the studies in the other two zones by February 1982. The decision to expand
the role of the Central Laboratory (para 4.24) and to sponsor university
research (para 4.21) would also upgrade MOPT's technological level and induce
progress on highway engineering issues. During negotiations, MOPT confirmed
that it would, by September 30, 1983, adopt consistent pavement design criteria
and materials specifications adapted to the specific conditions of various
regions.
3.20      Detailed engineering and construction supervision are usually carried
out by local consulting firms. There are over 200 consultants registered with
MOPT and the work is generally satisfactory. However, detailed engineering for
rehabilitation works has recently been done by MOPT based on road condition
inventories compiled by the Districts. The Districts assign an engineer to
supervise contracts for design, construction and works supervision under the
District engineer, who also has delegated authority to sign payment certificates
on behalf of MOPT. MOPT's Directorate of Supervision in Bogota monitors and
controls all activities of the Districts through monthly visits by engineers
and administrators who are assigned geographical areas. Presently, 19 engineers
and 18 administrators (lawyers, accountants, etc.) are performing these tasks.
The amount of MOPT supervision and monitoring is adequate, although the manage-
ment informationi system would be modernized under the proposed project to
provide MOPT with a continually updated status of activities under control of
the Districts.
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.21      In the past, Governmental authorities have considered highway main-
tenance as low priority in view of the concentrated effort to complete the



- 18 -
national highway network. Faced with the resultant deteriorating condition of
the network, however, a more positive attitude has emerged. As a condition
of the Seventh Highway Project, annual maintenance expenditures increased
by about 50%, in real terms, from 1979 onward. The 1982 budget, at July 1981
prices, corresponds to about US$4,800 per km per annum for routine, periodic
and emergency maintenance (excluding equipment purchases). Minor improvement
and repair works make up about 10% of the maintenance budget. During the
five-year (1982-1986) period, MOPT would increase annual maintenance alloca-
tions, in real terms, by about 5%, which is satisfactory. Under the
ongoing Seventh Highway Project, a major effort has been made by MOPT, with
the assistance of consultants (Ingeroute, France), to switch from an adminis-
trative to a managerial approach. Two management systems would be introduced
under the proposed project: a Pavement Management System and an Equipment
Management System (para 4.12).
3.22      MOPT's policy has been to handle routine maintenance, emergency
maintenance and a limited amount of periodic maintenance by force account.
In 1977, MOPT experimented with maintenance by contract using a road toll
system by concession on about 287 km. The concession experience was dis-
appointing, and this system has been abandoned. Road tolls are now collected
by a separate agency under contract to MOPT. Toll revenues are used to
partly finance periodic maintenance and minor improvement works. Presently,
MOPT has about 200-km of such works under contract. MOPT intends to increase
periodic maintenance by contract for the highly trafficked sections of the
paved network and would aim at increasing the annual length resealed from
about 400 km in 1982 to 600 km in 1986. This was confirmed during
negotiations.
3.23      In the past, equipment purchases have been sporadic:  US$21 million
in 1971 and 1972, and US$22 million in 1980, mainly under Loan 1471-CO. The
average age of the 34 main equipment types making up the fleet (4,200 units
as of February 1981) is over 12 years, and its general condition is critical,
half of the units being either obsolete or beyond repair. An equipment
renewal policy has been formulated based on the following reasonable ratios:
vehicles, seven years or 250,000 km; equipment, seven years or 12,000 hours;
and plant, 15 years or 12,000 hours. An important acquisition program is
under way, totaling about US$70 million, to replace aged and obsolete units.
Tenders have recently been received for about 1,590 units to be delivered in
1982/83. It is estimated that, with these deliveries, combined with scrapping
of obsolete units, MOPT's fleet in terms of number of pieces, composition and
condition would be broadly adequate, with 60% almost new, to match maintenance
needs. Further purchases would be undertaken on the basis of the Equipment
Management System, and needs would be assessed within the policy of contracting
periodic maintenance. This policy was confirmed during negotiations.
3.24      The territorial and decentralized organization of MOPT (26 Districts,
71 Seccionales, 147 Inspectorias and 336 Quadrillas of 12 laborers each, headled
by one foreman) constitutes a good basis for achieving adequate maintenance.
Total MOPT district staff amounts to about 11,130 persons, of whom 7,235 (65%)
are directly in charge of maintenance works in the field, and 3,895 are support
staff (Administration, Workshop, Stores). The number of field workers is
adequate; however, the support staff ratio of about one for every two field
workers is high. MOPT's personnel policy is not to increase the staff but to



- 19 -
improve its professional level. MOPT should contain maintenance personnel and
administration expenditures below 50% of total maintenance expenditures as was
the case under the Seventh Highway Project; this was confirmed during nego-
tiations.
H.   Training
3.25      MOPT's low and middle level personnel require additional training
to enable them to employ more efficient work methods. Recently, maintenance
training activities have been carried out by the Selection and Training
Section (STS) of the Personnel Division with the assistance of a consultant
training specialist. At the professional staff level, an upgrading program
has been carried out at headquarters, on a part-time basis, by consultants
(Ingeroute, France) to broaden management understanding of road maintenance.
In the Districts, a UNIDO advisor carried out practical training courses
for equipment operators and foremen. However, technical skills of senior
personnel, as well as of road foremen, equipment operators and mechanics, need
further strengthening. The training activities developed by MOPT under the
Seventh Highway Project would be substantially expanded and strengthened under
the proposed project. Since MOPT's Training Section lacks experience, further
technical assistance would be needed to initiate a four-year training program
(para 4.16).
I.   The Domestic Construction Industry
3.26      The domestic civil construction industry of Colombia concentrates
on road construction and is, therefore, heavily dependent upon the Government's
highway program. Its representative institution, the Colombian Association
of Contractors (ACIC), is weak, and companies are, as a rule, poorly managed.
During the past decade, road-building diminished because Government programs
focused on other sectors. The capacity of the industry declined. The road
rehabilitation program launched in 1978 initially ran into considerable delays
because of the iLnability of the industry to handle the increased volume of
work, especially because of the need to renew and modernize its equipment
fleet and to recruit and train technical and management personnel.
3.27      A study of the domestic construction industry, carried out by Bank
staff in 1980, concluded that the strategy for strengthening the industry
should aim at:
(a) reducing the industry's vulnerability to fluctuations in the
demand for road construction; and
(b) improving the managerial and institutional base of the industry.
Specific measures to implement the above-mentioned strategy have been agreed
with the Government and with industry representatives. They include training,
upgrading of management and an evaluation of the need for specialized
financing services. These measures are being carried out with funds from the
Seventh Highway Project and with direct contributions from MOPT and the
contractors. They are part of MOPT's 1982-1986 Program (para 4.20).
3.28      The contractors have increased their capacity and, over the past
four years, have reequipped themselves. Colombia has sufficient contractual



- 20 -
capacity to carry out MOPT's 1982-1986 Program. MOPT's register of civil
contractors includes 86 local firms, each with the capacity to carry out at
least US$1.5 million of works per year. In addition, 36 foreign firms are
registered with MOPT. Seven recent tenders for rehabilitation works amounting
to about US$55 million attracted 97 bids (five foreign).
IV. MOPT's 1982-1986 PROGRAM
A.   General
4.01      Over the past several years, improvements have taken place in MOPT's
management of the transport sector, such as the creation of a Sectoral Planning
Office in 1976 and a National Transport Council in 1980 (para 3.09). In the
highway subsector, the most important developments have been the growing
awareness of the need to rehabilitate and maintain the existing network, the
creation of a Highway Programing Office in 1980 and the initiation of a
Pavement Management System in 1981 (para 4.12).
4.02      MOPT plans to improve further upon these gains.  The institution has
considerable maturity; recent advances in transport policy formulation and
planning need to be consolidated through systematic followup and monitoring
(para 4.24). MOPT's rolling five-year plan, which is the basis for the
proposed sector loan, would provide the necessary discipline and continuity
to achieve lasting results. It would also provide adequate flexibility to
adjust annual targets in line with fiscal and economic policy. MOPT's 1982-1986
Program and related planning procedures have been under preparation since the
end of 1980. The program and the accompanying institutional measures are docu-
mented below and contained in a Memorandum of Understanding dated August 13,
1981 and a subsequent Aide Memoire dated January 21, 1982.
4.03      Major components of the Program (construction, rehabilitation,
paving, maintenance) are defined in terms of annual volume of expenditures and
physical targets. Other components (studies, road traffic safety, training,
support to construction industry, research etc.) are defined as traditional
project components. The proposed sector loan is based upon agreements reached
with the Government on:
(a) the scope and structure of an economically justified and financially
feasible highway program covering the period 1982-1986 and
agreement on annual updating of such program;
(b) criteria and procedures and related organizational arrangements
for selection, engineering and implementation of individual
subprojects included in MOPT's program;
(c) appropriate measures to address selected sectoral issues concern-
ing sectoral planning, road transport services and highway adminis-
tration; and
(d) specifications and procedures for subproject selection, preparation,
tendering, disbursement and monitoring.
The first three elements are reviewed hereafter while the fourth element,
implementation, is developed in Chapter V.



- 21 -
B.   MOPT's 1982-1986 Program and Financing
4.04      The Program gives priority to works already in execution, in particular
ongoing rehabilitation works under the Seventh Highway Project, and embodies a
balanced highway policy recognizing the relative priority of its main components
in the following order: (a) maintenance; (b) rehabilitation; (c) paving; and
(d) new construction. The Program (Table 4.1) is based on reasonably secured
financing which is summarized below. The physical targets to be achieved are
consistent with resource projections and implementation capacity. The targets
will be reviewed annually (para 5.22) as part of the rolling five-year planning
exercise.
Summary of MOPT's Program 1982-1986
(Col$ Billion at July 1981 Prices)
1982     1983      1984        1985     1986    Total    %
Highways
Non-recurrent            13.12    14.13    11.91        13.28    10.51    62.95   53
Recurrent                 7.54      7.99      8.22       8.45      8.69    40.88   35
Subtotal              20.66    22.12    20.13        21.73    19.20   103.83   88
Other non-highways          1.68      2.28      2.66        1.38     1.27      9.27    8
Debt Service                 -        0.45      0.98        1.62     2.20      5.25    4
Total                 22.34    24.85    23.77       24.73      22.67   118.36  100.0
Projected Price Index   (108.3)  (135.4)  (166.5)    (203.1)  (243.8)
Current Col$ billion       24.19    33.64    39.58        50.25    55.25
Projected exchange rate  (63.94)  (73.98)  (84.88)    (96.51) (108.54)
Current US$ million       378.3    454.7    466.2        520.8    509.1
4.05     The main source of funds (Table 4.1) for MOPT investment and operating
budgets is the gasoline/diesel tax, which is estimated to finance about 72% of the
1982-1986 Program. The projections of gasoline/diesel tax revenues are based on an
average annual consumption increase of 3.7% and a real tax increase of 3% per
year in line with price increases on petroleum products. In view of past
trends, both assumptions are conservative. Since 1975, the number of vehicle-km
has increased by some 6% a year and consumption by some 4.6%. The 3.7% consump-
tion increase assumes that consumption increases will follow GDP growth. The
gasoline price increase of 3% per year in real terms assumes that gasoline
prices in Colombia will, in line with Government policy, achieve and maintain
international levels. Other funding includes Government appropriations 3.4%,
existing foreign credit 2.6% and MOPT's own resources of about 8% from road
tolls, property assessments, transfers, etc. The proposed loan of US$152.3 mil-
lion (para 5.02) would finance about 7% of MOPT's highway program; it would be
applied only to non-recurrent expenditures of which it would finance 12%.
Finally, other external financing, not yet confirmed, includes suppliers
credit for equipment procurement and a possible loan from IDB, mainly for new
construction.



- 22 -
4.06     Should MOPT, in the future, have to meet the national highway require-
ments under more stringent budgetary constraints than those presently envisaged,
reduction in the overall size of the Program would first be effected by
reducing the new construction component through postponement or scaling down
of subprojects. This was confirmed during negotiations. However, it is more
likely that adjustments to the program would be made upward because of the
conservative character of revenue projections. The last years of the Program
do not take into account the possibility for further, yet unidentified, external
financing.
C.   Program Components and their Preparation, Evaluation and Selection
4.07      The components of MOPT's 1982-1986 Program were reviewed and agresed
during appraisal and are presented below. Preselection, evaluation and final
selection of MOPT subprojects would follow the methodologies outlined in
an Aide Memoire dated March 17, 1981. MOPT has demonstrated its capacity to
carry out technical and economic analyses in line with the above methodologies
during project preparation. About 1,400 km of rehabilitation works and 700 km
of paving works have been preselected and evaluated. Contracts for 655 km of
rehabilitation works (seven road sections) have already been awarded, and
tenders for two batches of paving contracts - 148 km in eight sections and
553 km in 19 sections - would be invited within the next six months.
(i) New Construction
4.08      New construction works have been considerably reduced in terms of their
share of MOPT's expenditure; 13% instead of about 30% over the past several years.
This is in line with the growing awareness of the Government of the need to consol-
idate the existing network. The Program makes provision for about 500 km of new
construction, i.e., less than 3% of MOPT's network, which includes urban bypasses
and other safety and capacity-increasing works. New construction projects are
subject to specific feasibility studies and detailed engineering before being
included in MOPT's construction programs.
(ii) Rehabilitation and Paving
4.09      During the Program period, rehabilitation of some 3,690 km (16% of
MOPT's network) of deteriorated paved roads is planned.  Average daily traffic
on these roads is above 700 vehicles per day, and truck traffic is high,
generally from 35% to 70%. The evaluation and selection of rehabilitation
subprojects are based on a survey of the pavement and drainage conditions and
terrain stability, followed by a technical diagnosis and an economic feasi-
bility analysis through the use of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM),
which has been developed by the Bank and installed in Bogota for use by MOPT.
The completion of rehabilitation works included in the Seventh Highway Project
is an important part of the rehabilitation program and will be monitored under
the Highway Sector Project.
4.10      During the Program period, paving of some 2,780 km (12% of MOPT's
network) of highly trafficked secondary roads is envisaged. Average daily
traffic on these roads is about 350 and upward, and truck traffic is
generally between 20% and 60%. The evaluation and selection of paving
subprojects is based on an initial screening operation supported by a
specific road inventory review of needed alignment improvements, detailed
engineering and traffic analysis, and followed by a more detailed economic
feasibility analysis, considering diverted or generated traffic whenever
applicable, which can also be car-iel out by using the HDM.



- 23 -
4.11      The minimum economic return for subprojects to be included in the
Program is established at 12%, slightly above the opportunity cost of capital
in Colombia. The rehabilitation and paving subprojects already evaluated and
included in the Program have had economic returns ranging from 35% and upward
(Table 4.2). During negotiations, MOPT confirmed that it would continue,
throughout the 1982-1986 period, to consistently use methodologies acceptable
to the Bank for the evaluation and selection of all subprojects in its Program.
(iii) Maintenance
4.12     A Pavement Management System and an Equipment Management System have
been developed under the Seventh Highway Project (para 3.21). In developing
these systems, due regard has been given to the future development of a compre-
hensive highway data bank. Both systems are being tested in four Pilot
Districts (Bogota, Cartagena, Palmira, and Tunja) and would be implemented
effectively by all MOPT's Districts by January 1, 1984, i.e., after one year
of testing in the Pilot Districts. Countrywide coordination would be under-
taken by three special working groups within the Highways Directorate (para 4.24).
This was confirmed during negotiations.
4.13      The main objective of the Pavement Management System is to optimize
the use of funds devoted to maintaining the highway infrastructure. This would
be achieved through:. (a) collection of road user and maintenance cost data for
different types of roads; (b) assessment of total road users costs (maintenance
and vehicle operation) fot different investment strategies and levels; and
(c) determination of maintenance strategies economically most advantageous,
especially the balance between ad hoc repairs, periodic resealing overlays and
strengthening. The Pavement Management System outlined in Annex 2 is based on the
concept that preventive maintenance of the paved network is the final target to be
reached and that a strict programing with two years lead time is required. It is
estimated that a ten-year period is required to reach this target, which aims at
decentralization of maintenance operations through a set of standardized technical
guidelines and administrative procedures. Annual maintenance programs will be
based on the Pavement Management System, which provides for four different
categories of maintenance ranging from emergency to preventive maintenance.
The entire MOPT road network will eventually be classified and maintained
according to these classes.
4.14      The 1982-1986 Program provides no expansion of MOPT's equipment
fleet beyond renewal requirements. Under the Program, special attention will
be given to monitoring equipment availability and utilization. The Equipment
Management System is based on the principle that preventive maintenance and a
timely forecast of spare parts requirements are the key factors to increasing
the availability of the fleet. Detailed guidelines and procedures have been
issued and are being tested in the four pilot districts. The Program will
introduce improved management of the spare parts through minicomputerization
in order to minimize the volume of stocks. Equipment purchases under the
Program will be planned on a periodic basis in accordance with this system.
(iv) Road Safety
4.15      The proposed road safety component would include the following
actions which are within the present capacity of MOPT, INTRA and other
organizations, given the present increased awareness toward road safety
matters. The roaLd safety component (Table 4.3) would include:



- 24 -
(a) Civil works for road safety including:
(i)  provision of adequate traffic signs, road markings and guard-
rails for 5,400 km of primary roads having ADTs over 1,000;
(ii)  development of 2four experimental rest areas for truckers,
about 10,000 m each, along the country's major highways;
(iii) construction of ten vehicle diagnostic centers; and
(iv)  construction of one safety training facility.
(b) Technical Assistance and Scholarship Programs including:
(i)  engineering of safety-related civil works;
(ii)  technical assistance for preparation and initial implemen-
tation of institutional strengthening described in (c) follow-
ing (about 126 man-months of local and 30 man-months of for,eign
consultants, Table 4.4); and
(iii) scholarship programs to train national personnel abroad
(about 40 scholarships with three months duration each).
(c) Coordinated measures by MOPT and other institutions including:
(i)  traffic safety criteria in all highway engineering under-
taken by MOPT;
(ii)  strengthening of INTRA's capacity, particularly in relation to
vehicles and driver control and statistics on road accidents;
(iii) upgrading of the professional methods for traffic control and
policing;
(iv)  creation of a National Traffic Education Committee to promote
and implement traffic education campaigns and introduction
of traffic education at primary and secondary school levels,
and of traffic professional training in technical institutes;
and
(v) promotion of Traffic Safety Clubs and School Traffic Brigades.
The details of this component were agreed during negotiations.
(v)  Training of MOPT personnel
4.16      The 1982-1986 Program would continue training activities startedl
under the Seventh Highway Project and would aim at improving the skills of
about 3,000 MOPT employees, based on a review of human resources and skills
required, which was carried out by consultants (Table 4.5). It would include:



- 25 -
(a) strengthening of MO]?T's Selection and Training Section (STS)
by creating a training advisory unit and issuing a policy
statement on training;
(b)  establishment of a Mobile Road Training Production Unit (RTPU)
for the training of road foremen, equipment operators and
drivers;
(c)  establishment of four Mechanical Training Production Units
(MTPUs) for the traiining of mechanical personnel;
(d) purchase of training equipment and materials;
(f) organization of seminars for middle and high level mainte-
nance staff;
(g) training abroad of some senior staff. Two staff members
of the Training Section would receive training abroad in 1982
under the Seventh Highway Project; and
(h) recruitment of one training advisor and of three senior instructors.
4.17      The trainees assigned to RTPU would be trained under actual working
conditions. Mechanics would be trained at the school workshops (MTPUs) in
Bucaramanga, Fontibon, Medellin and Palmira, and would work on the repair of
road maintenance equipment. MOPT would provide spare parts for the training
of mechanics throughout the duration of the program. Two small training
centers would be built at Medellin and Palmira in addition to the two
existing centers in Fontibon and Bucaramanga.  Seminars on different topics
related to maintenance management, accounting and administration would
be conducted periodically by experts for middle- and high-level staff. The
program would also include short courses abroad for high-level maintenance
staff and two staff members of the proposed training division.
4.18      All training activities would be coordinated by STS.  MOPT'S counter-
parts are expected to take over after the departure of technical assistance
personnel. Outline terms of refererLce for technical assistance services for
training are given in Annex 3. MOPT would: (a) adopt, by December 31, 1982,
a Plan of Action satisfactory to the Bank to carry out all elements of the
training component and provide annual funds for its implementation; (b) arrange
for the recruitment of Colombian instructors as needed at the beginning of
technical assistance services; and (c) make available adequate numbers of
personnel to be trained as instructors and release personnel to undertake
agreed training courses. Cost estimates for the training component are given
in Table 4.6. The details of the training component were agreed during
negotiations.
4.19      Study of Trucking Regulation and Services.  This study would be
carried out in two phases of six months each. Phase one of the study would
review Government policies and the regulatory framework for road and intermodal
freight transport, assess their implications on transport efficiency, and
recommend consolidation of services and facilities. It would also assess



- 26 -
the adequacy of road user charges applied to road freight transport and
recommend adjustments in line with the established policy of adequate pricirLg
(para 2.18). Phase two would develop specific implementation plans for revising
the regulations and carry out detailed feasibility studies for developing
intermodal services. An outline of terms of reference is given in Annex 4;
the study would be contracted by MOPT to experienced consultants, possibly E.
joint venture of a Colombian and foreign firms no later than September 1, 1982,
and the study would be concluded by September 1, 1983. This was agreed during
negotiations.
4.20      Support for the Construction Industry.  The Program would also
provide continued support to the efforts, initiated under the Seventh Highway
Project, to upgrade the capacity of the construction industry. These efforts
are being sponsored by MOPT, which has formed a Steering Committee, with
participation of the institutions representing the contractors, to organize
and supervise its various components and to coordinate with the consultants
appointed for the purpose. As mentioned in paragraph 3.27, three action plans
outlined below were agreed with the Government and with industry representatives;
two dealing with Professional Management Training and with Financing of the Industry
are being initiated under the Seventh Highway Project, and the third, which is now
being reviewed by the Government, would be supported by the proposed Loan.
(a) Training-in Professional Management. This component is aimed
at owners and general managers of construction companies. The
objective is to train 200 people by March 1983. Foreign exchange
costs would be financed under the Seventh Highway Project; local
costs would be recovered by charging attendance fees. The method and
amount of the charges are being studied by the Steering Committee.
(b) Financing the Industry. MOPT will commission and complete, by
August 31, 1983, a feasibility study, also financed with funds from
the Seventh Highway Project, for the development, through existing
private financial institutions, of specialized financial services
tailored to the needs of the industry.
(c) Technical Training for the Industry. This training would be combined
with MOPT training and would aim at two levels of company personnei:
(I) senior field and office personnel, who would receive training in
specific areas, including estimating, project management and cost
control; and (II) field personnel, particularly mechanics and
equipment operators. The level (I) training would be organized ard
funded internally by the industry's institutions; for level (II),
MOPT would initially train private industry operators in the
Ministry's own training facilities. This is an interim measure,
pending the discussion and establishment, by July 1, 1983, of
permanent training arrangements for the construction industry.
The proposed Highway Sector Project includes a US$300,000 component
to support the technical training programs by financing the services
of specialized experts to lecture and provide on-the-job training in
major centers throughout the country.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed its continuing support to the
above actions initiated under the Seventh Highway Project to strengthen the
domestic construction industry.



- 27 -
4.21      Upgrading of Road Construction Technology and Highway Administration.
MOPT would contract with universities to study the feasibility of introducing
alternative pavement construction materials, including asphalt emulsion tech-
nology in maintenance and paving activities, and to provide post-graduate
courses to update MOPT officials, particularly in evaluation techniques, devel-
oping departmental road plans, and creating a highway data bank. During nego-
tiations, it was agreed that MOPT would define, by July 1, 1983, the details
of its program of research, studies and seminars to be carried out over the
period 1983-1986 in road construction technology and highway administration.
4.22      National Transport Plan.  A major task to be undertaken by MOPT under
the project is the updating of the National Transport Plan (para 1.22), which will
deal particularly with port development policies, containerization and development
of intermodal services, deregulation of the trucking industry, analysis of freight
transport, and decentralization of the highway sector. This work will be closely
monitored and coordinated with worlk on the Bank's Transport Sector Memorandum
scheduled for FY83 and FY84.
D. Institutional Measures
4.23      In order to start implementing its policy of decentralization, the
Government would, by March 1, 1982, establish a task force coordinated by MOPT
and with representatives from MOPT, DNP, and FNCV. The task force would, by
October 31, 1983, prepare recommendations to be initiated in 1984 concerning the
distribution of various responsibi:Lities for the entire road network among national,
departmental and municipal authorities. The task force would, specifically,
review financing arrangements and the coordination of equipment and workshops.
This was confirmed during negotiations.
4.24      MOPT is undertaking the following measures to improve subsector
management and to strengthen MOPT's planning and implementation capacity:
(a) MOPT has established a Highway Evaluation Unit comprising five
professionals within the Highway Programing Office. The Unit would
be in charge of the progressive use of the HDM model or similar in
the evaluation of subprojects.
(b) MOPT will, over the project period, increase the capacity of the
Central Laboratory of the Engineering Materials Division, both in
terms of the infrastructure and of the equipment and human resources
required, to involve it as a matter of routine in the control of
quality of the materials used in works carried out by contractors or
by force account.
(c)  MOPT has established a support group consisting of at least four
qualified engineers ("Grupo de Apoyo de Mantenimiento") within the
Division of Engineering Materials. The group's tasks would be to:
(i) assist the Districts to implement the Pavement Management System
(para 4.12); (ii) develop technical standards for maintenance; and
(iii) achieve consistency between the specifications for construction
and the maintenance standards. Similarly, MOPT has established a
"Grupo de Apoyo de Maquinaria y Equipo" comprising at least three
engineers and two technicians to assist in implementing the Equipment
Management System (para 4.14), and a group of six professionals
to program the acquisition and distribution of spare parts.



- 28 -
(d) MOPT has formalized the coordination of internationally financed
projects in a separate office under the Minister. Technical coordi-
nation of civil works by a contracted engineer presently carried out
under the Seventh Highway Project would be continued by this office.
The preparation of progress reports and the organization of semi-annual
reviews (para 5.22) would be a specific responsibility of this office.
The above measures were confirmed during negotiations.
E.   Assessment of M4OPT's Program and Impact on Sector Policies
4.25      The main objective of MOPT over the period 1982-1986 is to pursue
and step up the ongoing efforts to (a) improve road maintenance efficiency,
(b) complete the rehabilitation program, (c) upgrade planning and programing
of pavement strengthening and resealing, and (d) increase the paving of highly
trafficked secondary roads. MOPT's 1982-1986 Program presents a proper balance
among its components, focusing on maintenance, rehabilitation and paving. The
assumptions on which the financial plan is based are reasonable and consistent
with established policies and with current projections concerning the evolution
of the overall economic situation. The Program is feasible given the projected
resources available and the expected increasing capacity of the construction
industry. Toward the latter years of the program, additional foreign credits
would be justified.
4.26      MOPT's 1982-1986 Program also develops and supports specific policies to:
(a) consolidate recent advances in highway planning and engineering;
(b) improve MOPT's management data system and computerization of
technical and financial records;
(c) improve road traffic safety;
(d) increase the efficiency of the domestic construction industry;
and
(e) assist the decentralization effort through an administrative
and financial reclassification of the network and the develop-
ment of Departmental Highway plans.
4.27      Within the transport sector, the Program includes studies and
subsequent consultations on measures to:
(a) update road transport regulation, assess road user charges,
set the basis for adequate pricing of transport services and
finally stimulate the development of intermodal services (study
completed by 1983);
(b) carry out regular updating of the National Transport Plan and
review progress made in achieving sectoral objectives by December
1983; and



- 29 -
(c) improve coordination among the different agencies in the transport
sectcr through the Sectoral Planning Office.
4.28      The impact of the Program, and hence of the proposed sector loan, on
the modus operandi of MOPT and on the management of the sector would be substan-
tial.  It would commit MOPT to the three priorities of maintenance, rehabilita-
tion and paving and to the development of improved policies on road administra-
tion and trucking regulations. Progress in the subsector has not been continuous.
Periods of advances have been followed by regression (as in the mid-1970s). The
formulation of policies and the development of the necessary consensus would
occupy the initial period of the project, say up to 1983. Implementation of the
decentralization policy would likely stretch over as long as ten years in view of
the complex institutional changes involved and the disparities between regions.
Changes in the regulatory framework for the trucking industry and in related
user charges would also need up to mid-1980s to take hold.
V. BANK PARTICIPATION
A.   General
5.01      The National Highway Fund (FVN) (para 3.17), created by Legislative
Decree No. 64 of 1967, would be the Borrower. FVN is an autonomous legal
entity, able to contract financial obligations. FVN has, as its legal repre-
sentative, the Minister of Public Works and Transportation and shares the staff
and structure of MOPT. Throughout this report, references made to MOPT as
entity in charge of project execution should be deemed to be made to FVN in
its legal capacity to execute the policies and programs of MOPT, including the
project.
5.02      The proposed Highway Sector Project is directed at maintaining the
Bank's presence in the subsector to support the implementation of programs
and plans developed under the Seventh Highway Project. The loan would finance
components of MOPT's 1982-1986 Program. The specific subprojects to be
financed under the loan would be defined on the basis of agreed criteria and
methods as the Program unfolds. The portfolio of subprojects to be started
in 1982 is adequate to ensure prompt initiation of disbursement.
5.03      The major categories of expenditures, i.e., paving, rehabilitation,
and equipment, to be financed by the Loan would be defined annually on the
basis of agreed criteria and procedures for subproject selection and prepara-
tion. The other components, including studies and technical assistance in
support of selected sectoral objectives, have been fully defined. The sector
format, by which virtually any subproject within MOPT's Program is a potential
candidate for financing, would overcome the problems encountered in earlier
projects because of lack of flexibility, i.e., drawn-out implementation
period, slow disbursement and large inflationary overruns. The projected
distribution of the proposed loan of US$1,523 million is shown in Table 5.1.



- 30 -
5.04      Two concepts to be considered in the administration of the loan are
the individual subprojects and the contract(s) associated with each subproject.
The subproject is the unit considered for purposes of project selection,
preparation and evaluation, while contracts associated with the subprojects
are the basis for disbursements. Under the timeslice concept, Bank financing
would be available for the following:
(a)  expenditures incurred after Loan Signature for rehabilitation
and paving works related to eligible subprojects contracted
since September 1, 1981;
(b)  civil works related to eligible subprojects tendered after Loan
Signature, which would have an initial completion date prior to
December 31, 1986;
(c)  purchase of support equipment for maintenance, laboratory equipment,
and equipment related to the Safety and Training components contracted
after Loan Signature;
(d)  studies and technical assistance contracted after Loan Signature.
5.05      Full disbursement is expected by December 31, 1986.  Early disbursement
would be made poss-ible by the fact that a substantial volume of eligible sub-
projects would be tendered or contracted during the first half of 1982 (para 5.23).
In line with the timeslice concept, it is expected that MOPT would continue to
request the Bank to review the eligibility of subprojects and the acceptabiLlity
of related contracts beyond what would be necessary to achieve full disburse-
ment of the Loan, with the implication that the Bank would finance only the
early phase of some contracts. MOPT would undertake to complete the contracted
works still under construction in accordance with a schedule defined for each
subproject. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would carry
out all subprojects in accordance with the execution schedule established for
each one.
B.   Conditions and Procedures for Eligibility of Subprojects
5.06      In order to be declared eligible, rehabilitation, paving and construc-
tion subprojects would have to be: (a) technically sound; and (b) economically
justified (para 4.11).
5.07      Civil works related to the safety and to the training components of
the Loan would have to be: (a) technically sound; and (b) consistent with the
objectives of these coaponents.
5.08      The purchase of equipment would be limited to:
(a)  support equipment, tools and machinery to increase the availability
and utilization of the highway maintenance fleet;
(b)  laboratory equipment to improve the capability of the Central
Laboratory;



- 31 -
(c) equipment for the safety component of the project; and
(d) equipment for the traLining component of the project.
5.09      Studies and technical assistance would have to be in direct support
of the sectoral objectives (para 4.25).
5.10      The procedure to declare a subproject eligible would be as follows:
(a) for -rehabilitation and paving subprojects, MOPT would prepare,
for each subproject, a Basic Data Sheet summarizing key data concern-
ing engineering, design standards, economic evaluation, cost estimates,
and schedule for detailed enginering, tendering and construction,
including division into lots. Two sample subprojects proposed for
financing are presented in Annex 5;
(b)  for each construction subproject, MOPT would prepare a fully
documented feasibility study;
(c) for civil works for safety and training, MOPT would prepare and
submit the description of works, their estimated value and the
schedule of implementation;
(d) for purchase of equipment for highway maintenance, laboratory,
safety and training, MOPT would prepare and submit the list,
type, and estimated value of the equipment and the scheduled
repartition of lots and the justification in relation to
the requirements, such as for the Maintenance and Equipment
Management systems; and
(e) for studies and technical assistance, MOPT would prepare detailed
terms of reference, manpower budget, cost estimate and schedule of
implementation.
5.11      The Bank would review the specified documentation, request additional
information as required, and assess eligibility. Rejected subprojects may be
re-submitted for future consideration in light of additional information, or
if the subproject scope or standards are amended. Once a subproject has been
declared eligible, MOPT would complete the detailed engineering. MOPT would
submit an Updated Basic Data Sheet once the detailed engineering has been
completed to confirm eligibility. Agreement on the above procedures related
to eligibility was confirmed during negotiations.
C.   Conditions and Procedures for Procurement and Bank Financing of Contracts
5.12      Civil works for rehabilitation, paving, construction, safety,
and purchase of equipment eligible for financing under the Loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement (July 1980). Civil works for safety and training
(estimated at less than US$0.2 million) would be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory.



- 32 -
5.13      Civil works contractors would be subject to prequalification.
Prequalification of Colombian contractors is based on MOPT's permanent register
of contractors, which is updated biannually; this system was applied satis-
factorily in the Seventh Highway Project and would be continued. For foreign
contractors, invitations to prequalify have been sent and would be sent to
Embassies and published in the "Development Forum." In addition, notices for
specific tenders have been and would be advertised locally and sent to Embassies.
The Bank would be kept informed concerning the list of prequalified foreign
contractors, those refused prequalification, if any, and the reasons therefor.
5.14      Once the detailed engineering for an eligible subproject has been
satisfactorily completed, MOPT would proceed with the procurement process.
Colombian procedures for procurement consist of the following seven steps:
Step 1 - Prepare tender documents; Step 2 - Establish official cost estimate;
Step 3 - Advertise, tender, and open bids; Step 4 - Evaluate proposals and
prepare award recommendation; Step 5 - Award contracts; Step 6 - Sign contracts;
and Step 7 - Legalize contracts. The procedures leading to acceptance, by the
Bank, of civil works contracts for financing would be as follows:
Procedure A:   Proposed civil works contracts with a nominal value of
US$3 million equivalent or more would be subject to prior Bank approval.
After completion of Step 4, MOPT would send to the Bank the tender
documents, the documentation relating to Step 3, and the evaluation of
tenders and the award recommendation (Step 4). After obtaining the
agreement of the Bank, MOPT would proceed with Steps 5, 6 and 7 and send
to the Bank two copies of the legalized contract.
Procedure B: Prior Bank review would not be required for civil works
contracts with a nominal value of less than US$3 million equivalent.
After completion of the entire process, MOPT would send to the Bank
two copies of the legalized contract (Step 7) and the documentation
relating to Steps 3, 4 and 5. MOPT would have the option of seeking
prior Bank approval under procedure A for these contracts.
5.15      The Bank would review the documentation submitted according to
procedures A or B, and, if satisfied, would indicate no objection. The above
procedures were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
5.16      The procurement program for equipment and parts, indicating lot
size, estimated cost and proposed exception to ICB, would be subject to prior
approval by the Bank. Similar items would be grouped to the extent possible
for bidding purposes. Contracts for equipment, vehicles, parts and tools
with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of
US$500,000 would be procured from suppliers under contracts awarded in
accordance with local procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.
Purchases of spare parts for existing equipment and for proprietary equipment
may be procured directly from established dealers. Procedures for procure-
ment of equipment were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.



- 33 -
5.17      Consultant services for technical assistance and studies would be
contracted in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines dated September 1981.
Shortlists of qualified firms would be submitted for the prior approval of
the Bank. Subsequently, the evaluation of proposal and the recommendation for
selection of a firm as well as the related draft contract would also be submitted
for prior review and approval by the Bank. Concerning local consultant services
for supervision of civil works, the Bank would review ex-ante the standard terms
of reference and form of contract. MOPT would then proceed with selection and
contracting following local procedures, which are satisfactory, and would send to
the Bank copies of signed contracts for all subprojects financed under the Loan.
These arrangements were confirmed at the time of negotiations.
5.18      The Bank would have the right to request further information related
to the tendering, award, and signature of any contract related to an eligible
subproject. Should the Bank determine that a contract related to the imple-
mentation of a subproject which has been declared eligible was awarded in
a manner not in conformity with the procedures defined above, it would have
the right to reject this contract and to cancel the corresponding amount from
the Loan.
D.   Disbursement
5.19      Disbursement would be made against full documentation on the
following basis:
(a)  50% of total expenditures for civil works and related supervision
services;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment or 90% of local
expenditures for locally procured equipment, tools or machinery;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance or
consulting services carried out by foreign consultant firms or
individuals; and
(d)  50% of total expenditures for technical assistance or con-
sultirng services carried out by local consultant firm, Colombian
individual, or Colombian university.
During negotiations, it was agreed that no withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan would be made with respect to civil works for expenditures which exceed
more than 50% of the estimated detailed engineering cost on which the con-
firmation of the eligibility was based (para 5.11).
5.20      The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated
at 50% on the basis of an analysis prepared by MOPT. The analysis has been
reviewed by the Bank and is acceptable. In the 1976 appraisal report for the
Seventh Highway Project, the foreign exchange component was also estimated to
be 50%, and the 1981 appraisal report for the Rural Road Project estimated the
foreign exchange component to be 45% for the construction of gravel roads,
i.e., without asphalt, of which Colombia is a net importer.



- 34 -
5.21      Studies and technical assistance financed under the loan would not
deal with usual feasibility and engineering matters but with problems of
planning, transport coordination, methods, research, safety, and training.
As such, they would require the participation of foreign experts or foreign
consulting firms (estimated US$10,000 equivalent on average per man-month).
While it is the Government's policy to encourage the use of local consultants,
some specialized foreign consultants would be needed because the required
expertise is not found in Colombia. It is estimated that about 30% of the
studies and supervision would be carried out by foreign consultants and 70% by
Colombian firms. The foreign exchange costs of such studies carried out by
Colombian firms would vary, depending upon whether or not local consulting
firms would be associated or subcontracting with foreign firms; there is likely
to be a wide range in the foreign exchange component of such studies, estimated
to be between 20% and 80%. The proposed disbursement percentage of 50% would,
on the average, broadly reflect the foreign exchange component of such studies.
5.22      Standard disbursement profiles indicate that, in the LAC Region and
in Colombia, a 7.5-year period has been required to obtain full disbursement
on highway loans. None of these were sector loans. The experience with the
only similar project which has been under execution for several years, i.e.,
the Mexico Highway Sector Project (Loan 1671-ME, US$120 million, August 1979)
indicates that, once the portfolio of eligible subprojects has built up,
disbursements accelerate. (The pattern of the Mexico project is shown for
comparison in Table 5.2.) The pattern projected for the proposed Sector Loan
assumes full disbursement in four years, reflecting the following specific
factors:
(a)  contracts for seven eligible subprojects were awarded before the end
of 1981 (amounting to about US$55 million), upon which disbursement:
would start immediately after effectiveness of the loan for expendi-
tures incurred after signing of the loan (para 5.23); and
(b)  the potential disbursement basis (foreign exchange component)
of construction, rehabilitation and paving expenditures over the
period mid-1982 to end-1985 totals over US$200 million, which is
well above the US$131 million available for civil works under
the loan. Contractual payments can, therefore, reasonably be
expected.by the end of 1985. Estimates of disbursements are given
in the following tabulation and in Table 5.2.



- 35 -
----------(US$ million; calendar year)---------
Disbursement for:                1982      1983     1984      1985   1986   Total
1.   Civil Works
Construction,
Rehabilitation, and paving        7.5      28.8      41.0     43.7   10.0   131.0
Safety                            --        1.0       2.0      1.8    --       4.8
Training                          --        0.2       --       --      --      0.2
2.   Equipment
Maintenance and Laboratory        --        4.0       1.0      --      --       5.0
Safety                            --        1.0       1.0      --      --       2.0
Training                          --        1.0       --       --      --       1.0
3.   Studies, Technical Assistance   0.5         2.0       2.0       1.0    0.5      6.0
4.   Front-end Fee                     2.3       --        --        __     __       2.3
TOTAL DISBIJRSEMENT              10.3      38.0      47.0     46.5   10.5   152.3
5.23      The above progression of disbursement is based on a portfolio of
eligible subprojects which has reached a total value of US$113 million and a
volume of accepted contracts related to these subprojects totaling US$55
million. The tender program (Table 5.3), the progress of the works and the
rate of disbursement (Table 5.4), and the status of subproject preparation
(Table 5.5) would be reviewed during the semi-annual consultations (para
5.24). This was agreed during negotiations.
E.   Semi-Annual Consultation and Monitoring
5.24      With regard to monitoring of the loan, the Government confirmed at
negotiations that it would prepare quarterly reports for the Bank providing:
the listing of eligible subprojects; the listing of contracts related to
eligible subprojects; the progress of execution of Bank-financed subprojects;
the status of disbursement requests; the schedule of estimated withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Project's physical targets (Table 5.6).
Furthermore, in order to monitor the progress of MOPT's Five-Year Program and
related policy objectives, the Government confirmed that it would hold
semi-annual meetings in March and September of each year of the Project. The
Government would prepare reports on the following in accordance with the
indicated schedule and any other reports as the Bank may reasonably request
from time to time:
(a) By March 15 of each year, MOPT would report on:
-   level of completion during previous year of subprojects
in MOPT's Program;



- 36 -
-   breakdown of recurrent budget expenditures for previous year;
-   summary of financial status of the Fondo Vial at end of
previous year;
-   report on maintenance operations during previous year;
-   composition and status of portfolio of subprojects with
financing under the loan including the various steps of
preparation or implementation;
-   implementation of institutional strengthening measures in
MOPT; and
-   enforcement of vehicle weight regulations.
(b)  By September 15 of each year, MOPT would report on:
-   proposed update of four-year investment program;
-   proposed recurrent budget for upcoming year;
-   financial forecast for FVN for upcoming year;
-   progress of road safety program; and
-   status of selection and execution of Bank-financed subprojects.
F.   Bank Review of Subprojects
5.25      The requirements for Bank review would be similar to those adopted for
ongoing similar projects. As mentioned in paragraph 5.04, two distinct steps
are recognized: first, the Bank declares a specific element of MOPT's Program
(a subproject) as eligible for financing under the loan; second, specific
contract(s) related to the execution of eligible subprojects are accepted
and become part of the disbursement basis. The focal point of Bank super-
vision would be to review eligibility for which ex-ante approval would be
required for all subprojects. The documentation necessary to establish
eligibility for civil works and equipment (paras 5.06 to 5.11) is generated
by MOPT's own planning and programing systems. Bank reviews, normally
carried out at the time of biannual consultations, would be a key instru-
ment in monitoring the performance of these systems.
5.26      For civil work subprojects at the stage of engineering, ex-ante
review would be requested only for construction subprojects which would account
for a small portion of the civil work component. Engineering for rehabilita-
tion and paving subprojects would be reviewed ex-post on a sample basis: 20%
in terms of length for rehabilitation subprojects and 30% for paving subprojects.
For civil works related to the safety and training components, a sample of
final engineering covering at least 20% of the total values of such
work would be reviewed ex-post. As mentioned in paragraph 5.14, award decisions
would be reviewed ex-ante for civil works contracts in excess of US$3 million
equivalent and ex-post for contracts of lesser amount; US$3 million equivalent
is the limit presently used under the Seventh Highway Project.



- 37 -
5.27      Concerning equipment purchases, both specifications and award
decision would 'be reviewed ex-ante whenever ICB is required (contracts
with an estimated cost of US$50,000 or more). Equipment contracts tendered
through local procedures would be reviewed ex-post. MOPT has a standard
set of tender documents and specifications developed for the Seventh Highway
Project.
5.28      Selection of consultants for technical assistance and studies
and related contract would be reviewed ex-ante. The Bank would review
ex-post a sample of 20%, in terms of length of road involved, of contracts
for supervision of civil works financed under the loan.
5.29      MOPT would keep records of all tenders, contractual documents
and official decisions pertaining to each eligible subproject, showing
total expenditures to date, monthly payments and administrative data. At
the end of the implementation of the project, MOPT would prepare a Project
Completion Report. The Bank would reserve the right to inspect and review
the documentation maintained by MOPT and the right to receive specific
portions of the detailed records. This arrangement was confirmed during
negotiations.
G.  Economic Justification
5.30      The components of MOPT's Program that lend themselves to straight-
forward economic analysis, i.e., new construction, rehabilitation and paving,
make up 48% of the Program. The cost estimates are based on detailed engineer-
ing and the benefits, depending on the specific subproject being analyzed,
consist of savings in vehicle operating costs, maintenance cost savings, and
diverted or generated traffic benefits whenever applicable. Time savings are not
included in the base case but would be calculated as optional information. The
vehicle operating cost savings are based on the terrain in which a particular
subproject is located and on the vehicle composition and traffic growth as estab-
lished by a countrywide system of traffic counting stations supplemented by
specific traffic counts if required. MOPT maintains periodically updated vehicle
operating cost tables and will, with the introduction of HDM, be able to
further refine the analysis. The minimum economic return for subprojects to be
included in the Program is established at 12%, slightly above the opportunity
cost of capital in Colombia (para 4.11). The broad geographic distribution of
subprojects ensures that the benefits of road improvements would be widely
distributed. The roads already evaluated and included in the 1982 program
(Table 4.2) havet had a weighted average economic return of 75%.
5.31      The maintenance component constitutes 31% of the program and
ensures that the roads will continue to have the standards for which they
were evaluated; the road maintenance costs have been included in the
economic evaluation of subprojects. Experience from similar programs in
Latin America suggests that coordinated measures to increase the efficiency
of maintenance operations have a high return.
5.32      The economic assessment of the other components which make up MOPT's
program and which account for 2.5%, i.e. road safety, training and special
components, is more complex and, by necessity, of a qualitative rather than a
quantitative nature.



- 38 -
5.33      The road safety component draws on experiences from other countries
and is expected to achieve, as its principal benefit, a reduction in traffic
accidents and fatalities.
5.34      The training component is expected to yield a higher efficiency
in MOPT's operation, but a quantitative measurement of this improvement is
not possible. Instead, this component has been tailored along the lines of
proven results in other countries.
5.35      The special components include some items that are well defined
and straightforward, such as the study of trucking regulation and modal
alternatives and the support for the construction industry but also some
items that are developed only at the conceptual stage and would be further
defined under the project. The benefits expected from the first two items
are improved service levels and competitive environment in the transport
sector and improved performance of the construction industry respectively.
The other items are all aimed at achieving either an increased understanding
of the transport sector or an improved operation of the same. The benefit of
having certain funds available on a flexible basis to support relevant new
developments in the transport sector cannot be overestimated. Under the
Seventh Highway Project, for instance, the Bank has been able, on a limitedL
scale, to support studies of the access to the new airport in Medellin and
a training program for the construction industry, both of which were not
known at the time of appraisal of that project.
H.   Assessment of Risk
5.36      MOPT's budget estimates for its 1982-1986 Program have been carefully
reviewed and are reasonable considering, on the one hand, the financial resources
available for the subsector and, on the other hand, the absorptive capacity
of MOPT and of the construction industry. The amount of the loan has been set
prudently below the potential disbursement basis. There is no serious risk
that MOPT's Program would not provide sufficient basis to commit and disburse
the loan as scheduled. The wide range of subprojects and the flexibility
afforded in the commitment of loan funds should prevent a situation wherein
the loan would be tied to a relatively small number of large subprojects
stretching over an extended completion period.
5.37      One uncertainty is the extent to which the Bank would be able to
influence sector policies. The Bank's strategy has been to help develop,
through the financing of MOPT, a Government institution with the in-house
capability and sectorwide perspective needed to direct transport policy.
While the first phase has been largely achieved by the preparation of the
project and the development of methodological tools (para 3.16), the next
phase of policy design and implementation, with a new MOPT top management
team in late 1982, would require an intensive open and constructive dialogue.
The project is designed to maintain the Bank's involvement and to ensure
policy and institution-building continuity through consultation, financing
of technical assistance and emphasizing the need for MOPT to switch from
an administrative to a managerial approach to its tasks.



- 39 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)  the Government to review progress made in achieving sectoral
objectives and to update the National Transport Plan by
December 31, 1983 (in draft form by September 30, 1983) (para 1.22);
(b)  MOPT to take, from time to time, all action necessary to adjust
specific and related road user charges, to cover the cost of
use of the road infrastructure (para 2.19);
(c)  the Government to cause MOPT to maintain separate accounts for the
project, and to audit MOPT and the National Highway Fund annually
and furnish the audit to the Bank within four months of the end
of the fiscal year (para 3.15);
(d)  MOPT to adopt, by September 30, 1983, consistent pavement design
criteria and materials specifications adapted to the specific
conditions of various regions (para 3.19);
(e)  MOPT to confirm its policy of increased reliance on contractors
for maintenance activities, increasing the annual length resealed
from about 400 km in 1982 to 600 km in 1986 (para 3.22);
(f)  MOPT to procure future maintenance equipment in accordance with
the Equipment Management System, taking into account maintenance
by contractors (para 3.23);
(g)  MOPT to keep maintenance personnel and administration expendi-
tures below 50% of total maintenance expenditures (para 3.24);
(h)  MOPT to follow a policy such that, in case of budgetary constraints,
new construction works would be reduced or delayed correspondingly
(paras 4.04 and 4.06);
(i)  MOPT to continue, throughout the 1982-1986 period, to consistently
use methodologies acceptable to the Bank for the evaluation and
selection of future subprojects (para 4.11);
(j)  MOPT to implement in all Districts, by January 1, 1984, the Pave-
ment and Equipment Management Systems developed under the ongoing
Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO) (para 4.12);
-(k)  MOPT to confirm details of the road safety component (para 4.15);
(1)  MOPT to carry out all elements of the training component (para 4.18);
(m)  MOPT to contract, by September 1, 1982, with experienced consultants,
a study to examine, by September 1, 1983, the regulation of the road
transport industry and the potential for intermodal coordination
(para 4.19);



- 40 -
(n) MOPT to continue its support to the actions initiated under
the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO) to strengthen
the domestic construction industry (para 4.20);
(o) MOPT to define, by July 1, 1983, the details of its program of
research, studies and seminars to be carried out over the period
1983-1986 in road construction technology and highway administrat:Lon
(para 4.21);
(p) the Government to establish, by March 1, 1983, a task force which
would recommend, by October 31, 1983, a plan for the distribution of
various responsibilities for the entire road network among national,
departmental and municipal administrative levels (para 4.23);
(q) the Government to take, or have taken, steps to further improve
the overall sector management and MOPT's planning and implementat:Lon
capacity (para 4.24);
(r)  MOPT to carry out all subprojects in accordance with the execution
schedule established for each one (para 5.05);
(s) MOPT to follow the procedures for subproject eligibility
(para 5.11);
(t) MOPT to follow the procedures related to procurement and Bank
financing (paras 5.15 and 5.16);
(u) MOPT to follow the procedures related to contracting consultant
services (para 5.17);
(v)  no disbursements for civil works to be made when total cost exceeds
the detailed engineering cost by more than 50% (para 5.19);
(w) MOPT to monitor the progress of the proposed Sector Project and
(i) issue quarterly reports and (ii) hold semi-annual meetings
with the Bank (paras 5.24 and 5.25); and
(x) MOPT to agree that the Bank would reserve the right to inspect
and review all the documentation pertaining to each eligible
subproject and the right to receive specific portions of the
detailed records (para 5.29).
6.02      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$152.3 million. The terms would be 17 years, including a
four-year grace period.
March 10, 1982



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
National and International Freight and Passenger Transport (1970-1980)
International Freight
National Freight Transport                        Transport             National Passenger Transport    International
Ton/km (millions)                        Ton (thousands)                Pass/km (millions)            Passenger
Coastal                        1/                                                          Transport
Year    Road      Rail   River  Shipping Air  Subtotal    Sea-  Air Subtotal    Road   Rail River Air   Subtotal  Pass (thousand)
1970   10,285   1,173   1,545        786    85   13,874    2,599   20   2,619    7,637   249   1   2,067    9,954               467
1971   10,879   1,150   1,319        843    79   14,270    2,709   25   2,734    8,055   281   7   1,953   10,296               524
1972   11,726   1,198   1,451   2,116   121   16,612    2,652   28   2,680    8,114   398   4   2,273   10,789                  596
1973   12,559   1,331   2,003   2,482   124   18,499    3,068   31   3,099    9,223   427   4   2,539   12,193                  685
1974   13,316   1,329   2,585   3,240   152   20,622    3,227   46   3,273    9,735   482   4   2,702   12,923                  815
1975   13,824   1,139   2,400   2,398   144   19,905    2,864   48   2,912   10,179   523   4   2,870   13,576                  891
1976   14,461   1,159   1,609   2,535   136   19,900    2,696   51   2,747   10,199   511   5   3,181   13,896                  966
1977   15,158   1,215   1,820   2,650   185   21,028    3,500   71   3,571   10,709   392   4   3,649   14,754   1,041
1978   16,507   1,232   1,402   2,195   267   21,603    3,808   93   3,900   11,244   342   4   4,048   15,638   1,140
1979   17,332   1,105   1,166   1,584   268   21,455    4,689   89   4,778   11,807   322   4   4,488   16,621   1,265
1980   18,025      882   1,287   2,0454/ 276k/ 22,515    4,934   94   5,028   12,412-/ 315   4   4,357-  17,088   1,261
1/  Excludes freight handled in private ports.
2/ Estimate.
Source:  MOPT
January 1982



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Public Sector Investments in Transport (1972-1980)
(millions of current Col$)
1/                                   Inland
Year       Roads-      (%         Rail      (         Water      (%)      Airports     M        Seaports  (7)          Total       (%)
1972      2,576.7   (81.7)       289.4   ( 9.1)         65.6   (2.1)        172.5   ( 5.5)         50.9    (1.6)      3,155.1   (100)
1973      2,746.8   (81.1)       299.2   ( 8.8)         78.7   (2.3)        211.0   ( 6.2)        49.5    (1.5)       3,385.2    (100)
1974      3,363.2    (73.6)      343.8   ( 7.5)       123.9   (2.7)         660.1   (14.5)         77.0    (1.7)      4,568.0    (100)
1975     3,335.7    (68.9)       540.5   (11.2)       162.7    (3.4)        651.9    (13.5)      153.8    (3.2)       4,844.6    (100)
1976     4,752.2   (80.1)        465.2   ( 7.8)       277.4   (4.7)         169.1   ( 2.8)       271.8    (4.6)       5,935.7    (100)
1977     6,016.3    (83.2)       382.3   ( 5.3)       231.4   (3.2)         433.6   ( 8.0)       169.7    (2.3)       7,233.3   (100)
1978     6,439.7    (83.1)       271.7    ( 3.5)      216.8   (2.8)         506.0   ( 6.5)       315.1    (4.1)       7,749.3   (100)
1979     9,482.4    (78.2)        79.9   ( 0.6)       420.0   (3.5)       1,531.3   (12.6)       619.7    (5.1)      12,133.3   (100)
1980    16,460.1    (85.8)       467.7   ( 2.4)       747.7   (3.9)       1,039.8   ( 5.4)       480.0    (2.5)      19,195.3    (100)
1/ Includes national highways, departmental and rural roads.
Source:  MOPT                                                                                                                         >
August 1981



- 43 -                          TABLE 1.3
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
World Bank Group Involvement in Colombian Transport
Highways
Loan   43-CO        1951      US$  16.50        First Highway Project
Loan   84-CO        1953       US$  14.35       Second Highway Project
Loan  144-CO        1956       US$  16.50       Third Highway Project
Credit 05-CO)       1961      US$  19.50)       Fourth Highway Project
Loan  295-CO)                  US$  19.50)
Loan  550-CO        1968       US$  17.20       Fifth Highway Project
Loan  680-CO        1970       US$  32.00       Sixth Highway Project
Loan 1471-CO        1977       US$  90.00       Seventh Highway Project
Loan 1966-CO        1981       US$  33.00       Rural Roads Project
Js$ 258.5_
Rural Roads Components of Agriculture Projects
Loan  739-CO        1971       US$   3.80       Caqueta I Project
Loan  849-CO        1972       US$   1.60       Second Atlantico Project
Loan 1118-CO        1975      US$   5.90        Caqueta II Project
Loan 1163-CO        1975      US$   5.10        Cordoba II Project
Loan 1352-CO        1976       US$   3.50       Integrated Rural Dev. Project
US$  19.90
Railways
Loan   68-CO        1952       US$  25.00       First Railway Project
Loan  119-CO        1955       US$  15.90       Second Railway Project
Loan  267-CO        1960       US$   5.40       Third Railway Project
Loan  343-CO        1963       US$  30.00       Fourth Railway Project
Loan  551-CO        1968       US$  18.30       Fifth Railway Project
Loan  926-CO        1973       US$  25.00       Sixth Railway Project
Loan 1/            .1982       US$  77.UU       Seventh Railway Project
US 196.60
Aviation
Loan 1624-CO        1978       US$  61.00       Domestic Aviation Project
Pipelines
IFC-R76-66          1976      US$  13.00        Loan to PROMIGAS, S.A.
US$   2.00       Equity in PROMIGAS, S.A.
US$  15.00
TOTAL                      US$ 474.05
1/1 Approved on February 16, 1982
Source: IBRD, Transport Sector Survey, 1979
March 1982



- 44 -
TABLE 2.1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Vehicle Registration and Fleet Capacity (1973-1980)
A. Number of New Vehicles Registrations
Total   up to 5t.   5-12 t.   12-20 t.   over 20 t.
up to
1973       41,145   18,942    19,403         1,551          1,249
1974        1,803   ;  427       1,044         115            216
1975        2,101       353        874         225            649
1976        1,435       229        922         178            106
1077        1,159       170        767         146             76
1978        3,918       532      2,582         609            195
1979        5,101       904      2,716       1,057            424
1980        2,780       479      1,201         502            598
TOTAL      59,442   22,036    29,509         4,384          3,513
distribution%   1.00        .37        .50         .07           .06
increase
73-80,%p. a.   5.4       2.2        6.2        16.0           15.9
B. Evolution of fleet capacity (000 tons)
Total   up to 5 t.   5-12 t.   12-20 t.   over 20 t.
up to
1973        2/3        64          150         24            35
1974         291        66          158         2o            41
1975         320        67          165         29            59
1976         334        68          172         32            62
1977         345        69          178         34            64
1978         378        70          196         43            69
1979         426        72          216         58            80
1980         466        80          224         65            97
distri-
bution %    1.0C       .17           .48        .14          .21
increase
73-80,%      7.9      3.2          5.9        15.3          15.7
p.a.
Source: INTRA, "Analisis sobre la situacion actual del transporte
publico de carga"
August 1981



- 45 -
COLOMBIA
TABLE 2.2
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Classification Standards for Trucking Companies
_C
T   G                        TRANSPORT  CAPACITY
Type      Geographic-.  A         Paid
of           level     E       Capital        Total           COMPANY  OWNED
Service   of operation  G   ('000 Col $)    Minimum
R                     (Tons)        %        Not less than
y                                of Total        (Tons)
G         NATIONAL    A         1.600          250          5            37.5
E                      B          800          250          5            25.0
N      ________        C          400          250          5            12.5
E       INTERDEPAR"-  A           800          150          5            22.5
R       MENTAL         B          400          150          5            15.0
A                      C          200          150          5             7.5
L
INTERMUNIC][-  A         400          100          5            15.0
C       PAL OR         B          200          100          5            10.0
A       DEPARTMENTAL  C           100          100          5             5.0
R                   _
G       URBAN          A          200           50          5             5.0
0                      B          100           50          5             3.0
C          50           50          5             2.5
NATIONAL       A       1.600            50        10            10.0
S                      B          800           50         10             7.5
P                      C          400           50         10             5.0
C       INTERDEPART-  A           800           30         10             6.0
I       MENTAL         B          400           30         10             4.5
A                   _  C          200           30         10             3.0
L       DEPARTMENTAL  A           400           20         10             4.0
AND URBAN      B          200           20         10             3.0
C         100            20        10             2.5
Source:  Resolucion o253/79 de Agosto 22 de 1979
August 1981



- 46 -
COLOMBIA                          TABLE 2.3
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Price Structure of Petroleum Products
(Col$ per gallon)
A. Price Structure
(Col.$ per gallon)
retail   retail    wholesale               dept.     sales   highway   refinery
date      price   distrib.  distrib.  trspt.          tax       tax       fund       pricE!
1. REGULAR GASOLINE
Dec. 1975      4.75      .26         .34      .29         .04      .26       1.57         1.69
Aug. 1976      8.50      .38         .44    1.48          .04      .50       2.99         2.67
Dec. 1977    12.00       .50         .57    2.82         .04       .73       3.88         3.46
Oct. 1978    16.00       .61         .65    3.04         .04       .92       5.69         5.06
Jul. 1979    26.00       .75         .97   11.65         .04      1.84       5.69         5.06
Oct. 1980    44.00    1.16          1.54   14.97         .04      2.87      12.42       11.00
nec. 1981    55.00       -           -        -          -         -        13.50          -
2. GAS-OIL (DIESEL)
Dec. 1975      4.25      .31         .63      .29         -         .08      1.05         1.89
Aug. 1976      8.05      .49         .73    1.48          -         .13      1.86         3.36
Dec. 1977    11.55       .61         .86    2.82          -        .18       2.53         4.55
Oct. 1978    15.00       .72         .98    1.58          -        .29       4.08         7.35
Jul. 1979    24.50       .87        1.30   10.61          -        .29       4.08         7.35
Oct. 1980    44.00    1.41          2.11    7.11          -         .84     11.61       20.92
Dec. 1981    55.00       -           -        -           -        -        13050          -
Source: MOPT
January 1982



- 47 -
COLOMBIA
TABLE 2.4
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road User Taxes and Road Costs
a. Typical Vehicle Operating Characteristics-
passenger car                bus                  truck           truck and trailer
type              Renault 6                  P600                  D600                CNT900
capacity           5 passengers           34 passengers            6 tons              25 tons
speed (km/h)          70                      70                    65                   46
annual mileage (km)  20,000                  100,000               65,000              80,000
lifetime (years)       9                       6                     8                    8
vehicle prices (US$)  9,700                   28,500               25,400             103,500
(of which taxes)       (4,400)                 (5,600)              (4,400)             (15,700)
b. Financial Vehicle Operating Costs and Taxes2-
(December 1980, US$/100 km)
costs    taxes       costs    taxes        costs    taxes        costs   taxes
fuel                1.49       .52        7.04      2.45        7.93      2.76      16.78    4.75
lubricant            .30       .10        1.76       .61        1.19       .41        1.26      .36
tires                .67        -         3.90        -         3.90        -       10.38       -
maintenance         1.64       .16        8.47       .85        7.81       .78       12.18    1.22
depreciation/
interest         10.73      4.98        7.34      1.50        8.84     1.59       29.22    4.58
fixed costs         2.82       .28       11.34      1.13       14.26      1.42      19.09    1.91
Total              17.65      6.04       39.85      6.54       43.93      6.96       88.91   12.82
(total tax percentage)       34%                   16%                   16%                  14%
c. Specific Rad User Tar-es
(December-1980, US$ /100 km)
- fuel 3/                  .42             1.98                  2.24                 4.43
- import and sales
tax  4/              2.83                -                     -                   -
Total              3.25              1.98                  2.24                4.43
index (base = passenger   100                61                    69                  136
car)
d. Road Maintenance Costs (variable costs) Index
- periodic maintenance (75% of total)
(axle weight index)      -               0.3                   1.4                 4.7
- routine maintenance (25% of total)
(equal)                1.0               1.0                   1.0                 1.0
average index                1.0              1.9                   5.2                 15.1
l/ on paved roads in good condition and flat terrain.
2/ as of December 1980.
3/ highway fund and departmental taxes.
4/ portion of import and- sales taxes above the average 20%.
Source: vehicle operating costs "Plan Nacional de Transporte, anexo II", updated
to December 1980; exchange rate as of December 1980: 1 US$ = 50 Col. pesos.
August 1981



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Colombian Road Network (1980)
(Estimated Length, km.)
Primary               Secondary and Rural Roads                  Total
Paved   Unpaved    Total       Paved   Unpaved    Total        Paved    Unpaved    Total
National           8,200    2,300    10,500                12,600    12,600       8,200    14,900    23,100
Departmental         --       --         --        900    39,500    40,400          900    39,500    40,400
FNCV                --        --         --        --      11,400    11,400         --     11,400    11,400
Private              --       --         --        --       2,300     2,300         --       2,300     2,300
TOTAL           8,200    2,300    10,500         900    65,800    66,700        9,100    68,100    77,200          0
Source: MOPT
January 1982



-49                        TABLE 3.2
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
National Highway Network (1965 - 1980)
Paved      Unpaved      Total      % Paved
1965         3,497      13,982       17,479       20
1966         3,572      13,992       17,564       20
1967        3,853       14,144       17,997       21
1968        4,235       14,607       18,842       22
1969         4,499      14,768       19,267       23
1970        4,821       15,094       19,915       24
1971        5,023       14,994       20,017       25
1972        5,957       14,319       20,276       29
1973        6,446       13,692       20,138        32
1974         6,768      14,075       20,843       32
1975         6,947      14,007       20,954        33
1976        7,344       14,494       21,838       34
1977         7,594      15,226        22,820       33
1978        7,635       15,215       22,850       33
1979         7,900      15,100        23,000       34
1980         8,246       14,884       23,130       36
Source: MOPT
January 1982



- 50 -                    TABLE 3.3
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Intensity of Use of the Network
Network Corre-
sponding to         % of
Total           Upper 80% of       National
Vehicle-km.         Vehicle-km.        Network
(km)
1968              7,769,575             5,718             30
1969              7,958,500             6,644             34
1970              8,475,525             7,171             36
1971            11,102,225              6,670             33
1972             11,932,950             6,999             35
1973            12,929,800              6,270             31
1974             14,428,150             5,921             28
1975             15,036,325             5,435             26
1976             16,449,950             6,043             28
1977             17,457,325             6,336             28
1978                 n.a.                n,a.            n.a.
1979             19,168,700             6,561             29
Source:  MOPT and Mission  Estimates
August 1981



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
National Eighway Fuud Revenues (1970-1980)
|Thousan 0s of Col9I
1970          1971          1972          1973          1974          1975          1976           1977          1978          1979            1980
Gasoline Tax                        767,382       932,700     1,200,400     1,188,927     1,207,394     1,654,494      2,614,785     3,351,971     4,708,407       8,095,292     10,754,012
Government Contribution             313,641       280,249       101,870        94,759        55,013       684,251        178,017       920,786       629,293       1,915,701      2,684,425
IBRD Projects                        53,739       200,686       163,828        93,958        22,426        19,996            230          --            --             3,276        133,429
IDB Projects                         60,970       131,841       179,963       143,601       128,737        23,657         35,526        38,364       188,646          23,171        161,761
FONADE Contracts                       --            --           1,303        18,292        28,317        29,136         15,602          --                            -
US Coverrmset Donation
for Inter-American Highway                                       -            1,580           253          __            3,014          --            --              --
Own Resources                        47,737        49,800        98,795        67,068        78,229       111,848        117,845       161,442       182,883         216,935        563,045
Previous Balance Carry-over         125,140        45,886          --         278,325       266,459        43,583           --          25,284        26,517          48,042      1,826,554
Dutch Government Credit                --            --            --            --            -                         111,642          --
Subtotal                        1,368,609     1,641,162     1,746,159     1,886,510     1,786,828     2,566,965      3,076,661     4,497,847     5,735,746      10,302,417     16,123,226
Unappropriated Revenues -           186,044       315,643       400,139       295,129       888,759        158,103       610,568       197,434       883,369         (33,045)     1,110,897
TOTAL                           1,554,653     1,956,805     2,146,298     2,181,639     2,675,587      2,725,068     3,687,229     4,695,281     6,619,115      10,269,372     17,234,123
National Highway Fund Expenditures (1970-1980)
(Thousands of Col$)
1970          1971          1972          1973          1974          1975          1976           1977          1978          1979            1980
Studies and Technical Services       26,759        27,301        27,921        55,837        85,123        60,508        119,261        93,951         49,809         68,393        242,972
Bridges                              67,062        86,475        72,850        84,844        86,124        132,688       100,841        85,166         97,265        183,033        279,330
Trunk Highways (North-South)        461,577       492,101       500,724       486,828       482,047        410,160       696,871       899,611        708,554        850,603      1,690,018
Trunk Highways (East-West)          132,236       187,630       214,446       288,018       367,134        368,829       379,506       483,661      1,024,510      1,031,619      3,043,257
Other Highways                      107,608       103,273       131,953       153,646       196,508        233,148       164,515       326,552        590,445        660,049         976,099
Access to Cities                     21,052        47,992        57,982        57,936       107,868         23,918        53,232       252,645        269,476        265,564        408,356
Paving Program                      133,023       220,526       277,295       178,680       107,782        223,348       414,182       245,622        416,360        581,569      1,259,216
Hydraulic Works                      42,118        44,740        65,552        78,671       123,868        162,732       277,416       231,360        216,816        419,905         526,318
Rehabilitation                         --            --            --            --                                       92,792       216,938        383,980        958,791      2,362,502
Highway Maintenance                 425,788       515,210       561,354       538,984       780,225        871,887       966,112      1,352,351-    2,354,794      3,935,009      4,698,335  H
Other Expenditures                   13,930        62,865        32,117         8 129        56,246         39,564       249,141       156,689         73,433        433,126         332,170  ;
Subtotal                        1,431,153     1,788,114     1,942,194     1,932,173     2,492,925      2,526,782     3,513,869     4,344,546      6,185,442      9,387,751     15,818,573 
Contribution to National
Feeder Roads Fund                 123,500       168,691    _204,104         249,466       182,662        198,286       173,360        350,735       433,673        881,621       1,415,550
TOTAL                           1,554,653     1,956,805     2,146,298     2,181,639     2,675,587      2,725,068     3,687,229      4,695,281     6,619,115     10,269,372      17,234,123
1/ Difference between appropriated revenues and actual expenditures normally financed with subsequent year's budgetary appropriations.
Source: MOPT
August 1981



- 52 -                     TABLE 3.5
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Design Standards for New Roads
(main parameters)
ADT Year 10               <250       250/500    500/1000   1000/2000  2000/5000   >5000
Terrain                   E    M      E    M     E    M      E    M      E         _ F    N
Design Speed (km/h)       40   50    40   50    40   60   ,40   60    60   80    60   80
Carriageway (m)            6.00        6.00        7.00        7.00        7.00     2 x 7.00
Shoulder (m)            0.5  1.0        1.0         1.0         1.5        2.50        2.50
Maximum Gradient ()        8    7      7    6      6    5      6    5      5    4      5    5
Minimum H. Radius (m)   50   80    50   80    50  120    50  120   120  250   120  250
Stopping Distance (m)   40   60    40   60    40   70    40   70    70  110    70  110
Bridge Width (m)           7    8      8    8      9    9      9    9    10   10       2x 9
Terrain2/                 0    P      0    P     0    P      0    P      0    P      0    P
Design Speed (km/h)       60   70    60   70    80  100    80  100    80  100   100  120
Carriageway (m)            6.00        6.00        7.00        7.00        7.00     2 x 7.00
Shoulder (m)             1.0  1.5   1.0  1.5   1.5  2.0   2.0  2.5   2.5  3.0   3.0  3.0
Maximum Gradient (1)       6    5      5    4      4    3      4    3      4    3      4    3
Minimum H. Radius (m)  120  180   120  180   250  450   250  450   250  450   250  450
Stopping Distance (m)   70   90    70   90   110  200   110  200   110  200   110  160
Bridge Width (m)           8    8      8    8      9    9      9    9    10   10      2x 9
1/  E = Alpine-Type Terrain           M = Mountainous Terrain
2/  0 = Hilly-Type Terrain            P = Rolling Flat Terrain
Source:  MOPT, Manual de Diseno, 1970, page II-41
November 1981



TABLE 3.6
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY S,ECTOR PROJECT
Design Standards for Road Upgrading
(main parameters)
ADT Year 10                      250          250/500         500/1000        1000/2000
Terrain                       E      M        E       M       E       M        E      M
Operating Speed (km/h)        30     40       30      40      30      40       30     40
Carriageway (m)              5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0      6.0    6.0       6.0    6.0
Shoulder (m)                 0.5    0.5      0.5    0.5      1.0    1.0       1.0    1.0
Maximum Gradient (%)          12      10      12      10       12     10       10      8
Minimum H. Radius (m)         25      40      25      40       25     40       25     40
Stopping Distance (m)         30     50       30      50      30      50       30     50
Bridge Width (m)               6       6       6       6       8       8        8      8
Teran2/                     0      P        0      P.       0       P       o 
Terrain -O                           PO               p. O            PO              P
Operating Speed (km/h)        50     60       50      60      60      80       60     80
Carriageway (m)              5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0      6.0    6.0       6.0    6.0
Shoulder (m)                 0.5    1.0      1.0    1.0      1.5    1.5       1.5    1.5
Maximum Gradient (x)           8       6       8       6        8      6        6      4
Minimum H. Radius (m)         80    120       80    120      120    220       120    220
Stopping Distance (m)         60      80      60      80       80    140       80    140
Bridge Width (m)               6       6       6       6        8      8        8      8
1/  E = Alpine-Type Terrain           M = Mountainous Terrain
2/  0 = Hilly-Type Terrain            P - Rolling Flat Terrain
Source: MOPT, Manual de Diseino, 1970, page III-42
November-1981



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
M4OPT's Program 1982-1986
(Col$ million at July 1981 prices)
Total
1981         1982         1983         1984         1985          1986      (1982-1986)
(estimated
execution)
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Government Appropriations             506.5        497.2        286.9        815.8       2.010.5      1,032.4       4,642.8
Gasoline Tax Revenues              16,226.5    15,217.0    15,643.0    16,716.0    17,958.0    19,282.0            84,816.0
Fxisting Foreign Credit             3,299.5      1,400.6      1,342.4         317.1        -            -           3,060.1
Road To]ls                          1,307.8      1,472.3      1,622.0      1,705.4       1,791.9      1,883.6       8,475.0
Transfers                           2,034.1        700.0        247.0        -             -            -              947.2
Proposed Sector Loan                  -            472.3      2,076.3      2,396.0      2,209.6         467.5       7,621.7
Other New Foreign Credit              -          2,579.5      3,635.5      1,820.5         764.5        -           8,800.0
TOTAL                      23,374.3    22,338.9    24,853.1    23,770.8    24,734.5    22,665.5            118,362.8       >
APPLTt(>''ION'r OV FITNDS
HIghw.l,;s
Non-recurrent
New Construction             8,451.4      3,990.8      3,802.7       3,169.6      2,749.0      1,859.1       15,571.2
Rehabilitation               3,924.2      3,373.4      4,932.9       4,136.2      4,384.9      2,350.0       19,177.4
Paving                         985.5      3,317.2      3,119.4       4,084.4      5,500.0      5,500.0       21,521.0
Equipment 1/                   760.3      1,815.0      1,815.0          -            -             -          3,630.0
Road Safety                     48.8         154.2        185.0        240.5        312.6        406.4        1,298.7
Training                        -             27.7         27.7         27.7         36.9          41.5         161.5
Studies                        458.8        447.4         247.2        250.0        300.0        350.0        1,594.6
Subtotal                 14,629.0    13,124.8    14,129.9    11,908.4    13,283.4    10,507.0            62,954.4
Recurrent
Maintenance                  5,868.7       6,121.0      6,549.5      6,745.9      6,948.3      7,156.8       33,521.5
Administration               1,362.8      1,414.6       1,442.9      1,471.7      1,501.2      1,531.2        7,361.6
Subtotal                  7,231.5      7,535.6      7,992.4      8,217.6      8,449.5       8,688.0      40,883.1    X H
Othier non-highways                 1,513.8      1,677.6      2,280.6      2,664.0      1,381.0       1,271.4       9,274.6        v
Debt Service                           -            -           450.2        980.8      1,620.6       2,199.1       5,250.7
Total                    23,374.3    22,338.9    24,853.1    23,770.8    24,734.5    22,665.5    118,362.8
1'  The requirements for 1984-1986 will be reviewed in accordance with the Equipment Management System.
Source: MOPT
March 1982



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
MOPT's Program 1982-1986
(Current Col$ millions) l/                                      Total
1982         1983          1984           1985          1986        1982-1986
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Government Appropriations                  538.5         387.9       1,358.6       4,085.2       2,516.4        8,886.8
Gasoline Tax Revenues                  16,480.0      21,176.7      27,834.0       36,480.5      47,004.2      148,975.4
Existing Foreign Credit                  1,516.8       1,817.3         528.0          -             -           3,862.1
Road Tolls                               1,594.5       2,195.8      2,839.7        3,640.1       4,591.7       14,861.8
Transfers                                  758.1         334.4          -             -             -           1,092.5
Proposed Sector Loan                       511.5      2,811.2       3,989.4        4,487.7       1,139.7       12,939.5
Other New Foreign Credit                2,793.6       4,921.6       3,031.3        1,553.0          -          12,299.5
TOTAL                         24,193.0      33,644.9      39,581.0      50,246.5      55,252.2      202,917.6
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Highways
Non-recurrent
New Construction                  4,322.0       5,147.9       5,277.9       5,584.4       4,532.0       24,864.0
Rehabilitation                    3,653.4       6,677.9       6,887.2       8,907.6       5,728.6       31,854.7
Paving                            3,592.5       4,222.9       6,801.0      11,172.9      13,407.5       39,196.8
Equipment                         1,965.6       2,457.1          -             -              -          4,422.7
Road Safety                         167.0         250.4         400.5         635.0         990.7        2,443.6
Training                             30.0          37.5          46.1          75.0         101.2           289.8
Studies                             484.5         334.6         416.3         609.4         853.2        2 698.0
Subtotal                     14,215.0      19,128.3      19,828.8       26,984.3      ZJ,613.2      1053/ 7.T
Recurrent
Maintenance                       6,629.0       8,866.4      11,232.7      14,115.0      17,446.3       58,289.4
Administration                    1,532.2       1,953.3       2,450.5       3,050.0       3,732.6       12,718.6
Subtotal                      8,161.2       10,819.7     13,683.2       17,165.0      21,178.9       71,008.0
Other non-highways                      1,816.8       3,087.4       4,435.9        2,805.4       3,099.3       15,244.8
Debt Service                                -            609.5      1,633.1        3,291.8       5,360.8       10,895.2
Total                         24,193.0      33,644.9     39,581.0       50,246.5      55,252.2      202,917.6
Projected Exchange Rate                     63.94         73.98         84.88         96.51        108.54                      H
Current US$ million                        378.3         454.7         466.2         520.8         509.1        2,329.2
1/   As per January 1st. of each year
and assuming a projected price
index of:                           10.3         135.4         166.5         203.1         243.8
Source: IBRD
March 1982



COLOMBIA
H1CIIWAY SECTOR PROJECT
NMOPT 19S2 Rehabilitation and Paving Program
co
XRUAB1LITATION
T                  E R    -   32 /
Section                                          Length       Traffic (A          __T      No. of 8.2T              Base  SeRsR
(Ref. No.)       Section_                         (Em)   Car   Bus   lrucks  Total    Eq. axles                    6 case  tivity  Tender
1           Puerto Valdivia -  Taraza           41.0   282    94       965   13L1        2010                      99      77 7
2           Taraza - km 262.05                  52.0   284   116       891   1291        1860         8.0          99     77/
3           Km 262.05 -  Caucasia                9.0   283   116       891   1290        1860   J                  99      77    5/29/81
4           Caucasia - km 18.60                 18.6   580   145    1087   1812          2270         5.6          54      47
5           ICm 18.60 - Planeta Rica            49.3   425   152       941   1518        1970   J                  99     77
9           Planeta Rica -  La Ye               53.0   351   138       766   1255        1610         6.1          99     77
6           Planeta Rica - ki 15.00             15.0   561    89       240    890         520         1.9          78     547
7           km  15.00 - km 38.00                23.0   937   146       381   1464         820         1.7         119     90    5/29/81
8           km 38.00 - Monteria                 14.0  3293   320       960   4573        1130         0.8         188    173)
50           Oiba - Vado Real                  * 29.0   378   157-    988   1523          1730         2.6         228    165    5/29/81
35           Neiva-Pitalito                     187.0   389   105       255    749        531         30 0         43      32  12/81
47           Bucaramanga -  Concova              24.0   493    95       360    948         770
48           Concova - Laguna                    64.0   390    86       390    866         830    r   19.8          50      38    6/22/81
49           Laguna - Pamplona                   35.0   431   116       350    897         640
31          lHonda -  Mariquita                  20.0  1355   143       878   2376       -1300         2.0          42     326
32          Mariquita  Fresno                    24.0   505    92       321    918         690         3.0          61     461   7/17/81  c
33a          Fresno - Mesones                    25.6   356    91       312    759         680         3.3          60     46)
34           Chusaca - Silvana - Girardot    156.0  2700   713    1482   489              28W0        16.8          79     55      Aug/81
TOTAL       839.5                                               101.6
PAVING
4/45         Puenta Boyaea - E1 Infierno         22       97    24      225    346         345         1.98        35      18
5/7A         Aranzazu - Salamina                 23      276    39      117    432         186         1.95        38      20    Early
6/25A        Popayan   Patico                    14      250    60      233    543         3f:8        1.10         50     29    1982
7/15A        Lorica - Mamil                      17      511    43      167    721         263         1.31         59     34
12/21       tlamato - Minca                      10      499   216      226    941         404         0.43       108      66
13/24        Villavicencio - Indostan            33      272      6     339    617         509         2.59         60     36
Barboza - Velez                     17      251   113      232    596         383         1.27        60      34
16/35A       Cornejo - Santiago                  12      587   160      142    889         261        n.- 96       60      35
11.59
TOTAL          148
1/  1979 values for rehabilitation, and 1980 values for paving                                                                            0-
2/ July 1981 costs
3/ For rehtabilitation a 50% cost increase; for paving a 20% traffic decrease and a 50% cc',t increase



- 57 -                          'ABLE 4.3
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Safety Component
Project Cost (US$ thousands)
Civil Works                                     Total          F.E.C.
Road Signs (for .5,400 km)                      3,331           1,990
Road Markings (for 5,400 km)                    5,146           4,812
Guard Rails (100 km)                            3,909           3,000
Rest Areas (4)                                    200             --
12,586          9,802 (78%)
Institutional Strengthening
Traffic Police                                  4,464           2,350
Control and Communication Equipment               500             500
Educational Campaign                              727             --
Diagnostic Centers                              2,000           1,000
Driver Testing Equipment                           100            100
7, 791         3,950 (50%)
Technical Assistance and Scholarships
Engineering Studies                             1,260             --
C.onsultants                                      740             260
Scholarships                                      440             440
2,440             700 (29%)
Total                        22,817          14,452 (63%)
Source: MOPT and Mission Estimates
August 1981



COLOMBIA
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Road Safety Component
Man-Months of Consulting Services
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                 FOREIGN CONSULTAN''TS
Cu
4.J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.-1~~~~~~~~~~~~4  0)444                            4
U C                                 0)W  O  S  +   Q  Q   .O  .H  *e   X   Q
0)4.             4                            .   '-
0S of INTRA  06                      0
w                             cuH      pi.11
4                4.4            d 
4-,              coL Cu                           I   '-
National 0Traffic    0a                                0
Education~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - Capag          2. 2                      6u  40.2
24  18      4 24  6      U 2  44 270         4-4 34 346
|-i     0)i4-4  0         *d   Cu        44 4TA  24  10    44
Costs (US$):  Schlarhi  Consultans 0  Fr H  c   Co 0   El  co
TASKS,000         1          x0 10            En  0          '   EJ   0 
Strengthening of INTRA                                  6   6        6       12   2  40  72    3                        3 
Assistance for Road Accident Control                    6   6        6   6  12   2  44  82    3   3   3   6            15
Traffic Police                                          6   6   6   6              2  30 56    3                   9  12
National Traffic Education Committee                    2            2             6  10  20
Education Campaign                                      2            2             6  10  20
Publicity Campaign                                      2            2             6  10  20
Subtotal                              21862 6 4 4 4 2 0                         9 3 3 6 93
TOTAL                             24             102             144 270
costs (US$):               Scholarship Program               Local Consultants                 Foreign Consultants
Airfare                   4 0 x 2, 000    80, 000            24 x 2,800-  67,200               30 x 10,000 = 300,000
Living Allowance      40 x 3 x 3,000 =360,000               102 x 2,200= 224,400
AA,n              144 xl1,000 = 14p00
Source: MOPT and Mission Estimates                                          435, 600
MOPT - August 1981



- 59 -                          TABLE 4.5
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Maintenance Personnel to be Trained (1982-1986)
Description                    Existing Personnel   Personnel to be Trainet
A.  Mechanical Personnel
Assistant Mechanic                           400                        280
Diesel Mechanic                              337                        236
Gas Mechanic                                 228                        160
Industrial Mechanic                           77                         56
Electro Mechanic                             100                         72
Welder                                       121                         84
Sub-Total                1,263
Assistant Equipment Operator                 203                        140
Heavy Equipment Operator                   1,152                        808
Driver                                     1,454                      1,020
Sub-Total                2,809                      1,968
B.  Maintenance/Construction
Road Inspector                               175                        123
Equipment Inspector                           50                         35
Lab. Technician                               50                         35
Surveyor                                      75                         53
Sub-Total                  350                        246
C. Administration
Storekeeper                                   75                         53
Procurement (Chiefs)                        50                         35
Asst. Accountant                           150                         35
Section Chief                               75                         53
Sub-Total                  350                        176
Total                    4,772
Source: Consultant
August 1981



- 60 -
COLO-BIA                             TABLE 4.6
COLOMBIA 
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Capital and Technical Assistance Expenditures
(US$)
Description                   Local         Foreign         Total
(a) Physical Training Facilities
Civil Works                          125,000         125,000       250,000
Workshop Equipment and Tools            -            452,000       452,000
Sub-Total        125,000         577,000        702,000
(b) Technical Assistance
1 Training Advisor                      -            240,000       240,000
3 Senior Instructors                    -            216,000       216,000
Fellowships                             -             70,000        70,000
Sub-Total           -            526,000       526,000
*c) Transportation
Vehicles           Sub-Total            -             75,000        75,000
td) Support of Tasks to be
Accomplished by RTPU
Road Maintenance Equipment              -           (500,000)-/   (500,000)-L
(e) Training of Mechanics
(Equipment Overhaul)                                        1/   (/
Spare Parts        Sub-Total         _300,000)-  _(300,000)-
Total            125,000       1,178,000     1,303,000
1/ To be provided by MOPT.
Source: Consultant and Mission
August 1981



HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Bank Participation
US$ Million
Rehabilitation                                    Special
I Schedule 1                             Paving        Maintenance  Safety  Training ponent   Total   Bank Participation
l Category of Expenditure
I Civil Works
-  Rehabilitation                      131.0             _- _                                131.0
and Paving
1 -   Safety                                -                          4.8     -           -       4.8
-  Training                              _               _         -        0.2        _        0.2
|  Subtotal                                                                 136.0    50%  Total cost
0
J Equipment
4-
aS  - Maintenance                           _                5.0       -       _           _       5.0
- Safety                                 _               -          2.0     -                   2.0
P4  - Training                              _                _         -        1.0        _        1.0
X)                   Subtotal                                                                      8.0   100%  CIF
0',
` Studies and Technical Assistance
0
- National Transport Plan
- Departmental Highway Plans
l - Road Transportation
- Highway Data Bank
- Construction Industry                  _               _          0.7     0.3        5.0      6
- University Research                                                                              6      50% Total Cost
- Safety                                                                                             and 100% Foreign
- Traiming                                                               l                                                  H
I    Unidentified Irasport
l     Matters                                      .
Front end fee                                       2_       _ ____Z_1;          .
Total              131.0             5.0        7.5     1.5         5.0   152.3



- 62 -
TABLE 5.2
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cumulative Disbursements                      Mexico  1/
IBRD Fiscal Year            at end of Semester             x         Loan 1671-ME
1983
December 31, 1982                  10.3                   18%           Year 1
June 30, 1983                      28.3                                   8%
1984
December 31, 1983                  48.3                                 Year 2
June 30, 1984                      70.3                   46%            30%
1985
December 31, 1984                  95.3                                 Year 3
June 30, 1985                     122.3                   80%            75%
1986
December 31, 1985                 142.3                                 Year 4
June 30, 1986                     153.3                  100%           100%
1/ The buildup of the portfolio of eligible subprojects and accepted contracts
in the initial face of the Mexico Highway Sector Project lagged more than
one year behind the present situation in Colombia.
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1982



HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
MOPT Tender Program for Construction, Rehabilitation and Paving
Schedule of implementation of works (Col$ million) -/
I.  Tender Programs           Total        1982         1983         1984        1985         1986       Post 1986
Ongoing Works            16,523       11,140        5,383
Tender 1981              16,500        2,700        6,600        7,200
Tender 1982              17,820                     2,970        6,032       8,818
Tender 1983              19,245                                  3,267       4,338       11,640
Tender 1984              18,593                                              3,593        5,000       10,000
Tender 1985       ..      8,121                                                           1,219        6,902
TOTAL Col$ million       96,802       13,840       14,953      16,499       16,849       17,859       16,902
79,900
II.  Potential Eligible Subprojects  2/                                                                                    a
Tender 1981               5,588          915        2,235        2,438
Tender 1982               6.961                     1,160        2,356       3.445
Tender 1983               5,060                                    859       1,167        3,034
Tender 1984               4,650                                                 930       1,260        2,460
Tender 1985               4,060                                                              812       3,248
TOTAL Col$ million       26,319         .915        3,395        5,653       5,542        5,106        5,708
1/ US$1 = Col$55  (July 1981 prices)
2/ Rehabilitation and Paving only.  About 65% of these potential subprojects were identified and sub-
mitted   to a technical review and prefeasibility analysis.  The major part of Bank-supported sub-
. projects would belong to this category II.
Source: MOPT and Bank estimates
March 1982



COLOMBIA
HIGUWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Bank-Supported Rehabilitation and Paving Subprojects
Schedule of Implementation, Schedule of Disbursement
Schedule of implementation of works (Col$ million)-/
I.  Financial Terms          Total Tender       1982          1983          1984          1985           1986
Tender 1981                   5,588           915         2,235         2,438
Tender 1982                   6.961                       1,160         2,356         3,445
Tender 1983                   5,060                                       859         1,167          3,034
TOTAL Col$ million           17,609           915         3,395         5,653         4,612          3,034
US$ million equivalent
Total US$ million               320            17            62           103            84             55
Current US$ million             442            19            75           137           123-.           88
Bank participation -            131             9.5          37.5          68.5          15.5
Cumulated Bank  3/
Participation -      4/       131             9.5          47           115.5         131
Disbursement Schedule -         131             7.5          36.3          77.3         121             131
a%
Rehabilitation       j               Paving             1/                      4
II.  Physicali Terms             Length (Km)    Col$ million       Length (Km)    Col$ million -
Tender 1981                                     5,588              --
Tender 1982                     584             3,811             700             3,150
Tender 1983                     304             1,910             700             3,150
TOTAL                                          11,30*           1,400             6,300
1/ US$ - Col$ 55 (July 1981)
2/ Assuming 10% annual increase
3  50%
4/ Assuming 6 months slippage against works implementation
Source:  MOPT and Bank estimates
March 1982                                                                                                           u



COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Status of Subproject Preparation
Cumulative Length (km )
I. New Construction              1981        1982       1983       1984        1985
Feasibility                    200         500        767      1,000       1,300
Final design                   200         500        767        900       1,100
II. Rehabilitation
Pavement Defections          1,450       2,600      3,750
Diagnosis                    1,450      2,600       3,750     According to
Pre-Feasibility                800       2,600      3,750        Pavement Management
Final Engineering              800       2,300      3,750           System
Final Feasibility              800       2,300      3,750
0
III. Paving
Screening                    1,500       2,400      3,386      4,500       5,500
Pre-Feasibility                600       1,500      3,386      4,000       5,000
Final Engineering              150       1,500      3,386      4,000       5,000
Final Feasibility              150       1,000      3,386      4,000       5,000
Source:  MOPT (Period 1981/1983) and Bank estimates (1984/1985),
March 1982
-                                                                      Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~



- 66 -                                TABLE 5.6
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Physical Targets
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    Total
Rehabilitation (km)        650      950      800     840      450   3,690
Paving (km)                 310     410      500     760      800   2,780
Resealing (km)             400      450      500     550      600   2,500
Paved Road Condition
Inventory l/(km)  1,000   2,000   3,000   3,000   3,000  12,000
Maintenance Fleet-
availability (%) 2/       60       65       70      80       80
utilization (hrs) 3/    800       900   1,000   1,200   1,200
Mini-Computers Ins-
talled in MOPT
Districts (u)       -       8       8        9                        25
1/ The condition inventory would follow the criteria being established
under the ongoing technical assistance.
2/ Availability of 100% means that equipment would be available for
maintenance work 220 days per year.
3/ Utilization of heavy equipment and dump trucks.
Source: MOPT and mission estimates
January 1982



- 67 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Completed and Ongoing Bank Assistance to Highways
A.   Highway Projects
(i) Completed Projects
1.01      From the early fifties to the mid-sixties, the Bank Group contributed
to the highway subsector through four projects (three loans and one credit)
assisting in the expansion of the primary network and the introduction of
modern road engineering and construction techniques. The First Highway Plan
was chaneled through the First Highway Project, which was originally intended
to be completed in three years as an emergency program, and eventually extended
beyond ten years. Successive loans financed unfinished parts of the preceding
ones and included some new works for which only preliminary engineering was
available. Since 1961, feasibility studies, including engineering, have preceded
the execution of projects, and international bidding for unit-priced contracts
was introduced.
1.02      The first four highway projects (Loan 43-CO, US16.5 million, 1951;
Loan 84-CO, US$14.35 million, 1953; Loan 144-CO, US$16.50 million, 1956; and
Loan 295-CO, US$19.50 million, and Credit 05-CO, US$19.5 million, 1961)
eventually resulted in the construction or upgrading of 3,200 km of trunk roads.
They contributed to the development of Colombia's trunk road system and to the
emergence of road transport as the main means of communication. The growing
importance of highway planning, construction and maintenance required reorgan-
ization and strengthening of the Ministry. In 1965, as a condition for extend-
ing the Closing Date of the Loan and Credit for the Fourth Highway Project,
the Government agreed to employ a joint venture of management consultants,
Comec-Harris (Mexico/USA), to study the organization of the Ministry of Public
Works (MOP).
1.03      The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 550-CO, US$17.2 million) was made in
July 1968 for (a) the construction or reconstruction (with paving) of about
510 km of four national highways; (b) the construction of a major highway bridge
at La Virginia; (c) consulting services for supervising (a) and (b) above, for
preinvestment studies, for detailed engineering of further priority roads, and
for assisting the reorganization of MOP based on the Comec/Harris report; and
(d) the purchase of equipment needed to effect the reorganization. The greater
length of the reconstruction works was located on the western trunk road; the
seven sections included in the project completed the paving of the road from
Cali to the North coast.
1.04      Progress was slow because of:  (a) unusually heavy rains during the
years 1969 to 1972; (b) the awarding of contracts to inexperienced and
financially weak local firms; and (c) the fact that drainage and earthworks
were underestimated because of inadequate design. The resulting cost overruns
caused two contracts to be rebid because the legal ceiling of 150% of the bid
price (including price escalation) had been reached. Another section had to be



- 68 -                             ANNEX I
Page 2
rebid after the initial contract was terminated for lack of progress. All
works were eventually completed in 1975, three years after the original comple-
tion date. The overall construction cost exceeded the appraisaf estimate by
32% and averaged US$75,000/km, which, nevertheless, was reasonable considering
the type of terrain and conditions encountered. The assistance provided under
the project to implement the reorganization of the Ministry achieved only
partial results. 1/ Road maintenance in the district was reorganized following
the principles of the Comec/Harris study. The Fifth Highway Project, despite
its shortcomings, was an important phase in the development of Colombia's
trunk road system and contributed to the establishment of better engineering
practices and improved contractual procedures. 2/.
1.05      The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 680-GO, US$32.0 million, May 1970)
provided continuity to the Bank's involvement in the construction and paving of
main roads. The project initially provided for: (a) construction of the
1,483 meter Barranquilla bridge and its approaches; (b) construction, improvement
and paving of the remaining 9.5 km of the Buga-Buenaventura Highway; (c) improve-
ment and paving of 1,618 km of primary and secondary highway; and (d) technical
assistance for supervision of the three above components by consultants.
1.06      The first two components were completed with a delay of about a year
at a cost slightly below appraisal estimates. The improvement and paving program,
however, suffered lengthy delays and large cost overruns. Design revisions to
allow for stronger pavements caused delays in project implementation, and sub-
stantial increases in quantities and in costs. Additional delays were due to
lack of local funds, poor contract management and inadequate supervision and
coordination by MOP. In 1974, it had become evident that the project was out of
step with the priorities of the sector and the level of funding available to it.
Resources were much more scarce, and MOP was facing a mounting backlog of
rehabilitation works on its trunk network. In January 1975, the Bank agreed to
reduce the scope of the paving program from 1,618 to 874 km. Because of the
continuing cost increase, Bank disbursement was lowered to 30% in January 1S77
and subsequently to 20% in July 1979. The loan was fully disbursed on July 15,
1980, at which date 88% of the 864 km had been fully paved. The real cost over-
run of the paving program amounted to 102%, the weighted final cost per km being
about US$59,000, which was still reasonable considering the scope of the works
and terrain conditions.
1.07      The project met the objectives of improving vehicle access to the port
of Buenaventura by completing the Buga-Buenaventura Highway and of facilitating
transport across the Magdalena River via the Barranquilla Bridge. However, the
objective of the paving program to improve communications between the Atlantic
ports of Barranquilla, Cartagena and Santa Marta and the major commercial and
1/   It was only after completion of this project, in January 1976, however,
that MOP was reorganized into the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT) in line with the principal recommendations of the Comec/Harris 'Study.
MOPT also proceeded to establish a Sectoral Planning Office (1976) and,
subsequently, a separate Highway Planning Office (1980).
2/   Project Completion Report dated September 14, 1977; Project Performance
Audit Report dated February 27, 1978.



- 69--                         ANNEX 1
Page 3
industrial centers of the country was not fully met since nearly half of the
intended paving works were not completed under the loan. Supervision missions
for the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects had pointed out repeatedly the need
to improve maintenance to meet general covenants under the loan agreements for
these two projects. Although MOPT had the basic organization necessary to
discharge its maintenance responsibilities, it lacked the capacity to carry
out ad hoc repairs. The development of a program of coordinated measures to
improve the efficiency of MOPT's maintenance operations soon became the focal
point of the preparation of the Seventh Highway Project. 1/
(ii) Ongoing Projects
1.08      The Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO, US$90 million, June 1977)
shifted the Bank's involvement in the highway subsector to road rehabilitation
and maintenance, and related institutional development. It comprises: (a) the
rehabilitation of about 978 km of paved trunk roads; (b) the preparation and
implementation of a vehicle weight control program including installation of
weighing stations on trunk roads; and (c) a highway maintenance program (1978-1982),
focused on the renewal and better management of MOPT's equipment fleet and on
the introduction of upgraded planning and management methods and procedures for
maintenance activities. The project provides equipment, spare parts, expansion
and equipping of workshops and warehouses, and technical assistance. Finally,
the project also includes studies related to the updating of the national trans-
port plan, and the preparation of an inventory of local road materials.
1.09      Project startup was delayed for two years because of the changes in
administration (August 1978) and subsequent inquiries into MOPT's practices,
which paralyzed most procurement actions until February 1979. The new adminis-
tration had difificulties in reorganizing MOPT and restarting the project. Key
consultants, in particular for maintenance planning and equipment management,
became involved only in early 1980. Some of the civil works contracted during
the first two years encountered administrative and financial problems and failed;
new contracts had to be negotiated or tendered. It was not until the end of 1979
that project execution really got under way with the full support of MOPT.
1.10      About 70% of the rehabilitation works has been completed by
December 31, 1981. The entire program will be completed by 1983, with all
but seven sections expected to be completed by the end of 1982. Its final cost
is expected to be 63% above appraisal estimates because of a combination of:
(a) increases in quantities due to the nature of the work and the additional
deterioration between the time when engineering was completed back in 1974 and
the time of construction; and (b) inflation which was higher than anticipated
over a longer period than estimated, thus causing a 160% increase in price
contingencies. Disbursements will be reduced to 20% of expenditures after
January 1, 1982. The works are now being carried out efficiently; they repre-
sent a major upgrading of the Colombian network and are economically well
justified.
1/   Project Completion Report of Sixth Highway Project dated October 29, 1980;
the Project Performance Audit Report has not been yet prepared.



- 70 
70 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 4
1.11      The technical assistance for highway maintenance by consultants
INGEROUTE (France) has developed and initiated the implementation of systems
for:  (a) Pavement Management; (b) Equipment and Spare Parts Management;
and (c) Training. Maintenance equipment for a total of US$25 million is
being procured under the project. Road marking, pavement evaluation and
laboratory equipment for about US$1.0 million are also being procured. In
addition, MOPT procured maintenance equipment in 1979 for US$5.3 million with
own funding and is presently reviewing equipment proposals for US$66 million.
This important replacement operation will enable MOPT to match maintenance
needs. Further equipment acquisition will be limited and will be carried out
on the basis of the Equipment Management System after review of the alterna-
tive of contracting routine and periodic maintenance. MOPT's budget is
conferring top priority to maintenance expenditures, which have almost
doubled in real terms from 1976 to 1980, reaching, for the whole network, a
satisfactory average level of US$2,180 per km. A Maintenance Management System
has been established. The real needs for maintenance personnel have been
established, and expenditures for maintenance administration and personnel are
being kept below 50% of total maintenance expenditures. The Equipment and the
Maintenance Management Systems and the Training System are being tested in four
pilot districts and will be extended countrywide under the proposed project.
1.12      AftL-  L[ay had presented a Plan of Action for Vehicle Weight Control,
MOPT contracted local consultants TECNOCONSULTA LTDA in November 1980 to
evaluate the economic, technical, financial and legal problems raised by
vehicle weight control. The consultants presented, in December 1981, their
recommendations on the number, type and location of the weighing stations. MOPT
agreed to adopt a plan of action for implementation of vehicle weight control
before negotiations of the proposed project and to carry it out under the Seventh
Highway Project.
1.13      The National Transport Plan was finalized and discussed with the
Bank by mid-1980, leading to the preparation of the proposed project. One
contract for the study of locally available road materials was awarded, in
February 1981, to a local consultant firm and is proceeding well; two further
contracts are being awarded. In April 1981, the scope of the project was
modified to include two Phases of Professional Management Training for
contractors, to be further developed under the proposed project. Despite
the two-year delay in its implementation, the Seventh Highway Project has
had a notable impact upon the institutional strengthening of MOPT.
B.   Feeder Roads Project and Road Components of Agricultural Projects
1.14      The Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO, US$33.0 million, March 1981)
aims at strengthening the planning, managerial and control capability of the
National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV) in the rural roads subsector with the purpose
of developing this organization into an efficient planning and funding agency
for rural roads programs carried out by the departmental agencies. It assists
FNCV's 1981-1984 program for: construction of about 2,000 km, rehabilitation
of about 1,800 km and maintenance of about 4,600 km of feeder roads, and pro-
vides technical assistance to upgrade the management of the institution.
Project implementation started satistactorily in the last quarter of 1981.



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
1.15      Bank participation in rural road construction was initiated through
rural development projects. The First Caqueta Project (1971) involved
construction and improvement of 124 km of low standard roads; the Second
Caqueta Rural Settlement Project (1975) included construction of about 200 km
of penetration roads and complementary road works; and the Second Cordoba
Agricultural Development Project (1975) included construction of 168 km of
all-weather roads as well as culverts, bridges and other structures. The
experience gained under these projects indicated that special consideration
had to be given to road selection, timely funding and proper maintenance of
constructed roads. More recently, the Integrated Rural Development Project
(Loan 1352-CO, 1976) includes 440 km of rural roads, which are being success-
fully implemented by FNCV. The proposed Second Integrated Rural Development
Project would include construction and improvement of about 540 km of rural
roads.
February 1982



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Application of the Pavement Management System
for the Paved National Network
A.   Classification of Traffic
1.        The level of service and the level of maintenance of a road should
be adapted to the volume of traffic. Pavement design is a function of the
(equivalent 8.2-ton) cumulative axle load traffic and subgrade CBR. When the
risk of pavement failure is considered due to financial constraints, it
appears that one should take less design risk on highly trafficked roads than
on roads with little traffic. Drainage requirements should be adequately
designed for all roads. The design life of a road (period of time for which
no pavement strengthening is required) should reflect the level of risk
accepted.
2.        For flexible pavements (97% of the Colombian paved network), the
following classes of traffic may be selected for two-lane highways:
0 -    676 -   1351 -  2801-  More than
ADT  (expressed in 8.2-ton    675       1350    2800    5800       5800
equivalent axles)
Class                            T4      T3       T2      Tl       TO
Design period (years)            10      12       14       16      20
3.        Based on a survey (March 1978) carried out by Consultants (Techno-Consulta/
Colombia), the typical loading characteristics are tentatively indicated below:
Type of Truck                        C2      C3     C4      C5     C6    B3us
Number of equivalent
8.2-ton axles                     1.4    2.4      3.7    4.7    5.0   0.3
This means, for instance, that a typical two-axle truck (C2) is equivalent to
1.4 axle of 8.2 ton.  Since the truck conposition varies widely 1/ over the
roads, any pavement design should consider the specific truck composition to
determine the class of traffic (para 2). At least a full three-days' traffic
survey should be carried out to approximate the traffic composition.
1/   The average truck factor is 1.5, but some roads present a truck factor of
2.5 and others of 0.7.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        When the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM) is used to test
the various policy alternatives, the concept of link (sections of road with the
same level of traffic) should be refined to consider sections of roads with not only
the same traffic but also with about the same number of 8.2-ton equivalent axles,
i.e., the same class of traffic (TO, Tl, T2, T3, T4).
B.   Classification of Highway Condition
5.        Four c:Lasses of highway condition are defined.
-   Class A means a good condition with no structural problems, good
running surface, and well adapted design (shoulders, slopes,
drainage, signalization), i.e., a good level of comfort;
-   Class B is close to Class A, but already exhibiting some surface
defects (although without structural problems) and a less well
adapted design;
-   Class C is related to roads with structural deficiencies and sur-
face problems, often accompanied by inadequate drainage and
other design deficiencies; and
-   Class D corresponds to roads with serious structural problems and
a critical surface condition, always associated with design
deficiencies of which the most important and frequent is inade-
quate drainage.
6.        To determine the condition of a road, a set of criteria is established
and standardized:
(a) visual observation based on the density of typical surface defects
and failures;
(b) identification and nature of drainage problems; conditions of the -
shoulders and slopes;
(c) measurement of the deflection to detect potential structural problems
(to be identified by field and laboratory tests) according to the
class of traffic; and
(d) roughness measurements to further estimate the vehicle operating
costs of road users.
The execution of the above activities would be programed and coordinated by
GAM.
7.        The classification of the condition of a road would be supported by
a diagnosis considering the various criteria (para 6) and by the class of
traffic (para 2). At this stage, and before a design solution is decided,
a technical explanation of the observed failures would be provided.



- 74 -
ANNEX7
Page 3
C.   Maintenance Policy
8.        Preventive maintenance is the long-term (10 years) maintenance policy
objective. Preventive maintenance is based on the assumptions that: (a) it is
less expensive to prevent than to cure (maintenance is expensive in the long
run when it is not done in a timely manner); and that (b) adequate maintenance
is always economically justified (adequate means that the level of maintenance
is adapted to the class of traffic). The use of HDM would assist in refining
the concept of adequacy.
9.        Four types of maintenance are scheduled:
(a)  Preventive maintenance is addressed to Class A roads (good condition)
and is based on a high level of routine maintenance plus periodic
overlay or resealing (i.e., when the surface condition is likely to
go down to Class B), at about seven years frequency. Class B roads
are also eligible for preventive maintenance but they should first
receive, at least, a strengthening overlay.
(b) Rehabilitation would be required for Class C and Class D to upgrade
them to Class A. In the long-term, rehabilitation should be consid-
ered as exceptional.
(c) Curative maintenance is addressed to Class C roads to avoid them
going down to Class D when, because of budgetary constraints, reha-
bilitation is postponed. Curative maintenance means a minimum level
of routine maintenance with emphasis on pot hole patching and
drainage cleaning.
(d) Special maintenance means interventions to resolve emergency problems,
such as removing heavy landslides, reopening roads to traffic, and
minimum actions on Class D roads to keep them open to traffic until
they can be rehabilitated.
D.   Planning and Programing
10.       A typical plan of action has been established to implement the main-
tenance policy:
Year N-2        The district engineers will present their proposals for
year N, based on the highway condition (para 6), per section
of about 25 km; they will be assisted by GAM (Grupo de
Apoyo de Mantenimiento).  MOPT's Highway Directorate will
review the proposals and prepare a draft plan for year N.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Year N-1       The district engineers will prepare the technical projects
and programing i.e., (i) for routine maintenance by force
account: needs in materials, equipment, timing, etc.;
and (ii) for rehabilitation or overlays by contract: final
design and specifications. MOPT's Highway Directorate and
GAM will assist them and will prepare a draft programing
and budgeting for year N. HDM may be used by the Highway
Evaluation Unit (Highway Programing Division) to analyze
the various maintenance policies, taking into account,
particularly, budget constraints.
Year N          Implementation of the scheduled program.
Year N+ 1 etc. Preventive maintenance by force account or contract.
11.       The annual planning of maintenance will also take into account the
following five categories:
Category I   - Roads under construction for which preventive maintenance
will be required upon completion.
Category II - Existing roads for which new alignment or major improve-
ments are scheduled within two years, for instance
gravel roads to be paved.
Category III - Existing paved roads that will receive preventive mainte-
nance, or rehabilitation or curative maintenance.
Category IV - Other paved roads.
Category V   - Unpaved roads.
The identification of Category II related to year N will be established by
year N-2 by the -Highway Directorate and forwarded to the Districts.
12.       To achieve a consistent highway maintenance policy and to initiate
the creation of a data bank, the identification of highway sections, through a
systematic referencing, is required. A draft regulation (following Regulations
12866 and 4550 dated December 11, 1979 and May 14, 1980 establishing the Highway
coding system) will be adopted and followed by the installation of concrete
reference posts.
February 1982



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Training of Road
and Mechanical Maintenance Personnel
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The objectives of the technical assistance for training will
consist of assisting MOPT in:
(a) strengthening the existing Training Section within MOPT;
(b) implementing a training program aimed at producing qualified
personnel required to carry out road maintenance operations;
and
(c) determining training courses and programs which can be con-
ducted by other institutions and ensuring their implementation.
II. SCOPE AND SERVICES
A.   General
2.        Technical assistance will consist of a training adviser (expatriate).
responsible for implementing and supervising all elements of the training
component. He will coordinate his work with MOPT senior staff responsible for
road and equipment maintenance and will be accountable to the Director of
Highways. The program, which aims at improving the productivity of some
3,000 personnel, would strengthen and expand ongoing training activities
and would be especially addressed to road supervisors, equipment operators,
drivers, mechanics, storekeepers and certain administrative staff.
B.   Expansion of Existing Training Organization and Physical
Training Facilities
3.        After reviewing and consolidating training activities recently
carried out by INGEROUTE's specialist, the training adviser will:
(a) assist MOPT in developing training policies and in upgrading
the Selection and Training Section to enable it to carry
out planning, implementation and supervision of present and
future training activities;



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) review plans for physical training facilities tentatively agreed
between MOPT and IBRD and suggest appropriate changes, if any; and
(c) estimate costs of setting up and running two regional training
centers (Medellin and Palmira), including payment of per diem
for trainees and/or instructors.
C.   Training Program
4.        Upon completion of the review under paragraph 3, expected to take
about 10 to 12 weeks, the training adviser will prepare a detailed training
program to meet personnel needs and will, inter alia:
(a) agree with MOPT upon a list of personnel requiring training,
retraining and upgrading for a four-year program. This list
should be broken down by Districts, categories/levels,
year and priority;
(b) develop a phased-program for different categories and levels
of personnel, taking into consideration MOPT's manpower require-
ments and budgetary constraints. The program could be presented
along the following lines:
(i) a two-year Priority Program to start as soon as resources
become available under tha Highway Sector Project; and
(ii) a Regular Program which would follow and consolidate action
taken during the Priority Program. The programs would be
updated annually in consultation with MOPT and the Bank;
(c) prepare the syllabi and relevant courses and procure suitable
already made courses, especially self-instructional and
audio-visual ones;
(d) assist in selecting instructors required (MOPT and technical
assistance), bearing in mind that MOPT instructors would have to
carry out most of the training activities starting the second (or
third) year of the program;
(e) assist in purchasing training equipment and materials (including
heavy equipment and audio visual aids) required;
(f)  determine training courses/programs to be carried out by "others"
(SENA, Suppliers, ESAP, etc.) and, provided they fit into the
overall agreed program, ensure their implementation;



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(g) design a system to monitor training programs while they are
being carried out and, later, to evaluate them after they have
been completed;
(h) recommend any other action considered necessary for the
satisfactory implementation of training; and
(i) estimate annual recurrent expenditures for program implementation.
D.   Implementation of the Training Program
5.        Following MOPT's agreement on the training program which should be
prepared within eight weeks, the training adviser will:
(a) assist in implementing the agreed phased program and, at the
same time, ensure on-the-job training for MOPT's counterparts;
(b) organize and supervise training programs carried out by "others"
(SENA, Suppliers, ESAP, etc.);
(c) conduct periodic seminars on training in general and, more
specifically,-on the programs proposed for MOPT maintenance
personnel. Headquarters senior staff, district engineers and
other field supervisors are expected to participate in these
seminars; and
(d) carry out any other action considered necessary for the
satisfactory implementation of training.
III. SCHEDULE FOR REPORTING
6.        The training adviser will be responsible for preparing the following
reports (in Spanish) within the time limits specified:
(a) a short inception report within four months of the starting
date, detailing training needs and recommendations for a four-
year program to meet these needs, including resources required
to implement the program. The report will contain a concise
first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports describing the work carried out
during the previous three months; the progress report will
identify actual and anticipated difficulties and delays in
implementing the training program and suggest remedies;
(c) a brief report on personnel policies and recommended
improvements;



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(d)  two months prior to the training adviser's completion of
service, a short draft final report will be prepared summarizing
(i) work program; (ii) progress made; (iii) initial benefits
from training program; (iv) areas where progress bas been
unsatisfactory; and (v) recommendations for further action;
(e)  a final report within one month of receipt of comments on the
draft final report from MOPT; and
(f) other reports as may be reasonably requested by MOPT.
Two copies of all reports will be sent to the Bank as soon as issued for
information.
IV. MOPT CONTRIBUTION
7.        MOPT will:
(a) provide adequate number of qualified personnel to be assigned as
counterparts to Colombian instructors to be recruited outside
MOPT;
(b) make adequate arrangements for the selection of suitable staff
to be trained as instructors;
(c) make adequate arrangements for releasing existing and future
staff, in a timely manner, to attend agreed training programs;
(d) provide classrooms and school workshops for the training of
mechanical staff at Bucaramanga, Fontinbon, Medellin and Palmira;
and
(e) provide training equipment and materials and spare parts as
required for program implementation.
October 1981



- 80 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a
Study of Trucking Regulation and Services
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Colombia's transport system moves over 21.5 billion ton-km of
inter-city freight annually. This traffic has been growing at an average
rate of 5.0% p.a. over the last 10 years. Road transport continuously in-
creased its share, which is now about 80% of the total, at the expense of
both rail and river transport. The trucking industry is in the hands of
only 400 licensed companies, most of which own very few trucks and sub-
contract to affiliated owner-operators. The restrictive regulation,
together with the high capital cost of vehicles and their inefficient
utilization, have resulted in current high transport costs.
2.        The Study will review Government policies and regulation for
road and intermodal freight transport, assess their impact on the efficiency
of freight transport and propose a comprehensive program, including
regulatory, operational, investment and possibly institutional measures,
to increase the efficiency of the road freight transport industry and to
foster, where appropriate, development of intermodal freight transport
services. Among the various strategies possible, emphasis will be put on the
simplification of the regulation and promotion of commercial alternatives,
particularly the development of a system of intermodal freight terminals aimed
at improved consolidation of freight and better coordination between modes,
and at providing trucking companies and owner-operators with the services they
require.
II. ORGANIZATION OF THE STUDY
3.        The study will be carried out in two phases.  Phase one of the
Study will review Government policies and the regulatory framework of road
and intermodal freight transport and define the above-mentioned program of
measures in sufficient detail to propose a preliminary economic justifi-
cation of the proposed investments and an assessment of the impact of other
proposed measures. It will also provide a detailed action plan for their
implementation. Phase two will carry out detailed feasibility studies for
the proposed alternatives. The present Terms of Reference refer to Phase one
only; the Terms of Reference for Phase two of the study will be prepared on
the basis of the findings of Phase one.
4.        The Study will be contracted by MOPT to a consulting firm with a
high level of international experience in transport planning, management and
organization and particularly in the trucking industry. Responsibility for
its supervision is vested in a task force under the leadership of the Head
of MOPT' Sector Planning Office, also acting as permanent secretariat to the
National Transport Council (NTC).



-81-                         ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The Study will be ccmplemented by a program of document facilitation.
MOPT will seek the expertise of the United Nations Document Facilitation
Program (FALPRO) of Geneva, Switzerland, to carry out this program, under sepa-
rate Terms of Reference, but under the supervision of the same task force.
In the course of the Study, the Consultant will coordinate his work with the
above program and should advise the Head of the task force on any divergencies
which may arise.
III. OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE OF PHASE ONE
6.        The main objective of Phase One of the Study would be to recommend
measures for improving trucking services and increasing the efficiency of road
transportation in Colombia.
7.        The scope of Phase One would cover the following:
(a) review the regulation of road freight transport, in particular the
role of INTRA, the role of the national bill of lading (Planilla Unica
de Carga), the entry into the industry (company licensing and affil-
iation of owner-operators) and the limitations on the growth of the
vehicle fleet, and recommend measures for improvements or changes;
(b) review the pricing of road freight transport services, in partic-
ular the current system of road user charges and its impact on modal
distributionj and propose solutions to reduce existing distortions;
(c) assess current transport services for major inter-city commodity
movements, identifying inefficiencies and potential, and recommend
improvements in their efficiency by, inter alia, investigating the possi-
bility of consolidation and unitization of cargoes to achieve better
truck utilization and greater competition, and, in a longer term, develop
intermodal services where appropriate; and
(d) determine the needs for freight consolidation and other services
to the trucking industry, in particular to the owner-operators,
identify the necessary investments and other measures required and
assess, on a preliminary basis, their economic justification.
8.        The Consultant shall make recommendations for an overall policy and
for specific strategies in the above-mentioned areas, and prepare a detailed
action plan for the implementation of the overall program of measures, including
financing and institutional arrangements as required.
IV. OUTLINE OF THE SCOPE OF WORK OF PHASE ONE
A. Review of the Regulation of Road Freight Transport
9.        The Consultant shall analyze in depth the regulatory framework of road
freight transport in Colombia, the role of INTRA, and the impact of the re-
gulation on the present situation of the road freight transport industry.



-82 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       When analyzing the regulatory framework, the Consultant shall:
(a) examine the impact on the road transport industry of the licensing
system for companies (company qualification system) developed by
INTRA, assess the need for such a system and define potential com--
mercial alternatives as a substitute to the legal form of "affilia-
tion," keeping in mind the need for greater competition among truckers;
(b)  analyze the function and purpose of the National Bill of Lading and
its present role in the road freight transport market, and evaluaite
the statistical potential of the National Bill of Lading; and
(c) analyze the present condition and age of the truck fleet and the
adequacy between existing capacity and transport demand, and evaluate
the impact of INTRA's control of fleet growth (vehicle imports).
11.       When analyzing the role of INTRA, the Consultant shall:
(a) review the purpose and role of this institution;
(b) review the adequacy of its functions;
(c) review the efficiency of its operations;
(d) analyze INTRA's overheads, administration and finances.
12.       When reviewing the impact of the regulation on the organization of road
freight transport in Colombia, the Consultant will propose alternative measures
aiming at replacing the legal controls, through private sector initiative,
within the overall scope and spirit of the Transport Law of 1970.
B. Review of road user charges and transport pricing policy
13.       The Consultant shall review the system of road user charges and cur-
rent transport pricing policy, emphasizing their implications on intermodal
distribution of freight in the corridors studied (para 14). Economic distor-
tions are to be identified and evaluated, and recommendations made for
corrective actions to be taken. The main areas of study will be:
(a) the efficiency of the road user tax system in covering at least
short run marginal costs attributable to each category of users (both
macro-economic approach through total taxes paid per traffic unit and
micro-economic approach through vehicle operating costs should bes
considered).
(b) the pricing of petroleum products, and possibly of other major imputs
to the transport sector, compared to their opportunity costs;
C.   Evaluation of current transport services and potential improvements
14.       The Consultant shall first review the basic tables of inter-depart-
mental commodity movements prepared by SPO, and the national transport system, to



- 83-                       ANNEX 4
Page 4
determine what commodities and which transport corridors should be studied in
evaluating the potential for improving the efficiency of transport services.
Existing transport services on the selected corridors shall then be carefully
analyzed in terms of equipment characteristics and operating ratios, transit
time and reliability, tariffs and operating costs. This analysis will be
based on the information available from various sources, mainly in SPO, INTRA
and CFT, to be consolidated and supplemented, as necessary, by the Consultant's
field interviews and complementary surveys. This analysis should lead to a
detailed assessment of capacity constraints, operational inefficiencies,
technological deficiencies, organizational and regulatory constraints for
commodity movements in specific corridors and nationwide, and to a clear under-
standing of current modal distribution of cargoes.
15.       The Consultant shall then evaluate the potential for improved consol-
idation of cargoes and better unitization, and assess implications on the ef-
ficiency of road freight transport services. The assessment will cover both
shippers' costs (including time savings and reduced losses and damages) which
determine modal choice, and economic benefits (in particular foreign exchange
and energy savings), which could accrue to the country through proper use of
the truck fleet and intermodal technology. Among unitization possibilities,
consideration should be given to the development of inland transport of
containerized cargoes (the consultant will find a useful analysis of container-
ization of external trade in the recent Colombia Port Modernization Study).
Other appropriate technologies should also be investigated and evaluated.
D. Identification of necessary services to the trucking industry
16.       On the basis of the above analysis, the Consultant shall determine the
needs for consolidation/breakdown and unitization services and for modal inter-
changes. These will be quantified in terms of commodity volumes at every mode
of the transport system where they are expected to be sufficient to justify
the development of a freight-consolidation center.
17.       At each of the selected locations, the Consultant will, through
appropriate field investigations, make a preliminary analysis of the market of
the services to be offered to the trucking industry, such as: cargo warehousing
and handling, truck parking and maintenance facilities to drivers and to
transport companies, insurance, freight-forwarding, return load centers,
leasing services (especially trailers), radio-telecommunications, etc. This
preliminary market analysis will allow the Consultant to identify a system of
services to the trucking industry, predimension the required facilities,
determine alternative locations, draw preliminary development schemes of the
system and the facilities and estimate investment and operating costs in
sufficient detail to carry out a prefeasibility study.
18.       Against the economic costs for developing and operating the above
system, the economic benefits to be computed shall cover, in particular:



- 84 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a)  the improved efficiency of the road transport industry to be
achieved through higher load factors and better turnarounds of
the vehicles by facilitation of return load availability for the
line-haul portion of the movement, by use of appropriate vehicles
for pickup and delivery in urban areas, and by provision of
adequate services to trucks, drivers and companies;
(b)  the improved efficiency and consequent development of above-
identified intermodal transport services, resulting from freight
consolidation and unitization, availability of modal interchange
facilities and simplification of documentation; and
(c) the impact of relocalizing transport installations and related
services outside city centers on urban congestion and urban growth.
In addition, social benefits to the road transport industry, to accrue through
supporting installations to truckers, should be clearly identified.
19.       The prefeasibility study shall cover the entire proposed system of
services and will be aimed at recommending the most appropriate investment
program. In all cases, economic criteria (benefit-cost ratios, net present
values of the investment and economic internal rate of return) shall be
computed and savings on fuel and foreign exchange identified. Their
sensitivity to such uncertain variables as vehicle load factors, traffic
diversions to the railway and reduced urban congestion shall also be
assessed.
20.       Institutional and financing alternatives for development of the
proposed system and for their management shall be defined and discussed. It:
is anticipated that the Government will receive a significant support from
the private sector and from municipal and departmental agencies for freight-
consolidation projects in areas where the needs are more acute. The
Consultant shall recommend, for each category of investment, the appropriate
funding and cost recovery system. The Consultant shall determine the forms of
participation of the public entities and private industry in the management
of the facilities with the aim of achieving efficient operation.
21.       The municipalities of Cali and Buenaventura, supported by central
Government agencies and private companies, are well advanced in the prepara--
tion of a feasibility study for a freight terminal in Cali with an accessoriLal
facility in Buenaventura. So far, the study has focused on relocalizing trans-
port facilities and activities outside the congested urban centers and, for
Cali, on providing ample warehousing space to the industry and trade sectors.
The potential for freight consolidation, unitization, and freight-forwarding,
and for modal interchanges has not been sufficiently analyzed. The design of
the project, its financing and management will have to be revised in line with
the findings of the above analyses. The Consultant shall, through SP0, make
detailed recommendations for CENCAR, S.A., a semi-public company created to
study, promote snd develop these facilities, to review the project accordingly.



- 85-                     ANNEX 4
Page 6
22.       The Consultant shall finally recommend the preparation of each
separate subproject. He shall propose terms of reference for carrying out
the necessary traffic and market surveys, and for planning and preliminary
designs of the necessary facilities. He shall define the methodology to be
followed for the economic and financial evaluations of the subprojects and
propose formats Eor the presentation of the feasibility study reports to be
prepared in Phase Two.
V. RFPORTING REQUIREMENTS
23.       The Consultant shall be responsible for preparing the following
reports:
(a) Inception Report: The inception report will summarize the Consultant's
findings on the identification of pertinent commodity movements and
transport corridors on which the study will focus (para 13), and
list the supplementary data required for the subsequent tasks; this
report is to be submitted at the end of the second month.
(b) Interim Report: The interim report will summarize the Consultant's
findings on the review of the regulation and road user charges and on
the evaluation of current transport services and possible technology
improvements (para 14); this report will be submitted at the end
of the third month.
(c) Recommendations on CENCAR Report: The Consultant will make detailed
recommendations to SPO, focusing on integrating the Cali-Buenaventura
project within an overall intermodal strategy; this report should be
submitted at the end of the fourth month.
(d) Draft Final Report: The draft final report will present the
Consultant's analyses and findings, the proposed overall policy,
strategies, investment program and other measures covered in the
above scope of work, a detailed plan of action for their implementa-
tion and draft teams of reference for the Phase Two study. This
report is to be submitted at the end of the sixth month.
(e) Final Report: The Final Report will be a revised version of the
draft final report to include the Government's comments; it is to
be submitted one month after receiving the Government's comments.
VI. COST ESTIMATE
24.       Phase One of the study is estimated to require about 20 man-months at
an average monthly rate of US$10,000 and an amount of about US$100,000 for
operational expenses; the total cost of Phase One is therefore estimated at
US$300,000. The extent of Phase Two is not clearly defined yet; its cost is
tentatively estimated at the same amount.



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subproject
1.   Basic Data                 Road    OIBA  -  VADO REAL
Existing  Proposed
Rehabilitation  x          Length (km)               29.0       29.0
Paving                     Cross section:
Riding surface (m)      7.2        7.2
Shoulders (m)           1.0        1.0
Pavement                A.C        A.C + 5 cm
2.   Traffic
car     bus    C2      C3      C5   Total
Base Year (1979)    378       157   692      148    148   1523
Growth/Year                                            5% until 1986
and 4% onwards
3.   Vehicle Operating Cost 1/    (US$/km) 2/
(1985)                     car      bus      C2       C3       C5    Roughness
Without works       0.251   0.342   0.664   1.278   1.848        9000
With works          0.131   0.246   0.418   0.754   1.048        2098
4.   Cost Estimates            US$2.6 million 2/ (July 1981)
5.   Economic Data
Economic Rate of Return:           228%
ERR with 50% Increase in Cost:   165%
6.   Tender
Tender                          May 1981
Completion Time                 18 months
Tentative Budget Allocation   1982       0.42
1983     1.68
1984     0.50
2.60
1/   Economic VOC excluding passengers time values
2/   US$1 = Col$ 55



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
7.   Technical Description
The existing road located in hilly terrain already has a danger-
7% surface cracking, a deflection of about 61/100 mm, and a poor drainage
system. The work consists of improving superficial and deep drainage,
carrying out an overlay ranging from 0 to 12 cm (average 5 cm), and
completing reconstruction of short sections of the existing pavement.
February 1982



88                       ANNEX 5
Page 3
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subproject
1.   Basic Data                 Road   4-45  Puente Boyaca  -  El Infierno
Existing  Proposed
Rehabilitation             Length (km)               22.0      22.0
Paving          x          Cross Section:
Riding Surface (m)      6.9        6.0
Shoulders (m)            -         0.5
Pavement                 GR         CA
2.   Traffic
car     bus    C2       C3     C5   Total
Base Year (1980)    97       24    202       23      __    346
Growth/Year                                            5% until 1986
and 4% onwards
3.   Vehicle Operating Cost 1/   (US$/km) 2/
(1985)                     car     bus      C2       C3      C5    Roughness
Without works      0.197   0.337   0.579   1.075   1.525    5870 (aver.)
With works         0.128   0.258   0.434   0.793   1.097    2010
4.   Cost Estimates         US$1.98 million 2/  (July 1981)
5.   Economic Data
Economic Rate of Return                          35%
EER with 20% Traffic Decrease (Base Year)
and 50% Increase in Investment Cost           18%
6.   Tender
Tentative Tender                March 1982
Completion Time                  22 months
Tentative Budget Allocation   1982       0.30
1983     1.00
1984     0.68
1.98
7.   Technical Description           Road located in mountainous terrain (alti-
tude 2,950 m) average gradient: 4%
1/   Economic VOC excluding passengers time values
2/   US$1 - Col$ 55



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
A.1   Analysis of the Energy Sector, MME, 1980
A.2   National Transport Plan (Main  Report), MOPT, 1980
A.3   Projections of Gasoline Tax Revenues for the National Highway Fund
MOPT, 1981
A.4   Report of Activities 1978/1979, Institute for Public Works,
Boyaca, 1979
A.5   Colombia - Appraisal of Highway Maintenance by Contract, MOPT,
October 1980
A.6   Highway Toll System in Colombia, MOPT, January 1980
A.7   Automatic Traffic Counting, MOPT, 1979
A.8   Traffic Counting, MOPT, 1979
A.9   Traffic Counting, MOPT, 1980
B.   General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Pavement Management System (Detailed Guidelines, Aug. 1981)
B.2   MOPT's Districts, Elements for a Diagnostic (1980)
B.3   Preventive Maintenance (Guidelines Dec. 4, 1980)
B.4   Highway Maintenance Organization (Nov. 19, 1980)
B.5   National Highway Network (Maps per District, March 1980)
B.6   Equipment Management System Volume 1, 2 and 3, (Draft, Dec. 1980)
B.7   Spare Parts Coding System
B.8   Organization of the Store Houses (draft, Dec. 1980)
B.9   The Methodology for a Comprehensive Referencing System, January 12, 1981



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
B.10 MOPT Training Organization (3 volumes) Nov., 1980; Dec., 1980; Jan. 1981
B.ll Road Safety, MOPT 1981
B.12 Proposal for a Research and Postgraduate Program, National University
of Colombia at Bogota, July 1981
B.13 Proposal for the Establishment of a Transport Studies Center,
Pedagogic and Technological University of Colombia at Tunja, Aug. 1981
B.14 Aide Memoire March 14, 1981
B.15 Memorandum of Understanding, August 13, 1981
B.16 Working Paper on Road Traffic Safety
B.17 Gasoline Tax Projections, January 1982
B.18 Aide Memoire January 21, 1982
C.   Highway Design and Maintenance Model
C.1   Characteristics of the New Computer System to be Installed at
MOPT, Bogota, IHM, May 20, 1980.
C.2   Preliminary HDM Runs
- Paving, Bogota, June 5, 1981
- Rehabilitation, Bogota, June 4, 1981
C.3   Revised HDM Runs
- Paving, Bogota, June 12, 1981
- Rehabilitation, Bogota, June 12, 1981
- Rehabilitation (Special), Bogota, June 12, 1981
C.4   Appraisal HDM Runs
- Paving, Bogota, July 30, 1981
- Rehabilitation (Low Maintenance), Bogota, July 30, 1981
- Rehabilitation (High Maintenance), Bogota, July 30, 1981
C.5   Magnetic Tape - data files for C.3  recorded by MOPT, July 1981
C.6   Summary of INPUT/OUTPUT of HDM Appraisal Runs, Bogota, Aug. 1981
Table 1 - Link Descriptions
Table 2 - Summary of Evaluation
Table 3 - Existing Link Characteristics
Table 4 - Project Descriptions
Table 5 - Traffic Composition
Table 6 - Maintenance Standards
Table 7 - Unit Costs of Maintenance
Table 8 - Vehicle Characteristics
Table 9 - Examples of Vehicle Operating Costs
Table 10 - Results of the Evaluation
Table 11 - Composition of Rehabilitation Runs
Table 12 - Rehabilitation - Roughness Values without Project
Table 13 - Project Costs Vs. NPV Comments on the Tables
C.7 Report by Stephen Stares - Wilbur Smith and Associates (Preliminary
HDM Runs), June 15, 1981.



MINISTE RIO DE OBRAS PUBLICAS Y TRANSPORTE
OPGAOSMOS DESCENTRALIZACOS                                                                                  ORNNi"AMA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~
E                 I r---MItII~~~-~~-,__--  ---                  -       -___~              UU11STRO
c..~~~  5*5S00555  SE 005p0S5j500  ML TRONNSPOfSICMEO~IALELA   ONE
55a:V~~SE                                             ClillLEMN                                                          LAFTROI LI
EIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55Mse.  .0,sm   scnsIo,. 5                                                                                  sti.   55555                       sICCImS  .DC   [1c5in
sr^oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 |5    50"   54 co                    - _5 I6                                                                         SC                                           
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.0YECT 0 S                                                 lcciom Tl
0-.cr0o1170 daMoy.14 do1980
R IEO^Out dO AutOrud,o      I _CEiid                                       I STR0
RO   6~d.ATCMISCI i   -- ------ --
'Uru,I.d do trnbO, do -60.K  rnstrr                                                                                                                                                                        PTSS






COLOMIBEA                                                  )          ;r          53                   2,          35
F        NAITION-A~LHIGHWVAY fNJETWORK                                                                        -ss
12:                                                                                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~303  5c              2.3                                                                     2
Filth3 -3iqOoay P,rtjSo                                                                                                                           ,,                  -
Pave-, onk r3a3H~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1~, 
J",--ts ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~N                                            ~    I-
jnp-a~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6pws ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        -
Se ,pLr-                                                 0      - e 
~~<'0  035*3                                                                                       .0W~~~~~~~~~S.
- --    5231353/or,                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
6,    /
4-                  3-',    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.-1 
PANAA41'                                                                                                                                                                                            ......~,3-
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 - , -
12' 15'                                                                                                                                                         El~NH,  ) ~ N-"',  ooq    ~,    T  f-',T0
Ee     00'OH0HO-
-H                '0'                 s',,wd~~~~~~~~~~,,,5 ~~~~'\ ,,K-,                                  N                                              W,'aHSor,o-'  ,,o,0'         0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El ..
-~~~~   -   /                                             o.         Co,,h,,o                                    0 -v,.,10000 o, HO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
-N                                                                           ....   5 ..// %2s    '7
Ei               TOIo- A            '                                   -1                                                         '0        2-- @R-0'-,r
~~  255                - -               Mob, 0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                     /                       5H,H,~dS  J   Cs>->)-'a                     >sIH
H  000.005  09       02,, 0000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   CC,,,,~                               N ERIC
-s                     ooso,o,O.             ,"a~~~~~~~~~~~,-  ,                                       5     5   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                          --i
0055095                        200,    /        0                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N02   s-oooooAj    7   ,\   ~<    0,~,,                                   'si's-'         p5W,         k,,,,,,            5,,I,,-IHGoo,
(-A ~    ~        ~        55                -                                                  , '5                                          __,-~o,
3---0,                                                                                    O0J5,,              ,HHZI0H
T  5          -                  *0~~~~~~-
ANDOES  $IEK- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,A                                                                                                            
55  ~~~   2,5,5,,        0,00             uK-A        N~~C'J~iCl
~~~~~-s---,--                                                                                                *0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
A D C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



