Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3241-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FONDO VIAL NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
March 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso(Col$)
Average Calendar 1980                                     Average Calendar 1981
US$1   =   Col$47.280                                     US$1   -   Col$54.414
Col$l  =   US$0.02115                                     Col$1  -   US$0.01838
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNR            Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS     Colombian Port Authority
DNP            National Planning Department
DRI            Integrated Rural Development Program
FNCV           National Rural Roads Fund
FVN            National Highway Fund
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
INTRA          National Transport Institute
MOPT           Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PAN            National Nutrition Program
PIN            National Integration Plan
SENA           National Apprenticeship Training Service
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Fondo Vial Nacional
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Amount:        US$152.3 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace at 11.6%
interest per annum.
Project
Description: The project is a highway sector operation, supporting the
Government's 1982-86 Highway Development Program, which fos-
ters economic growth and regional decentralization of produc-
tive activity, the adoption of minimum cost transport solu-
tions over the medium term, complemented by a cohesive trans-
port policy and regulatory framework as well as adequate
financing. The project would also assist in strengthening the
local contracting industry, particularly in its efforts to
recover from the prolonged slump in construction activity du-
ring the 1970s. The proposed Bank loan would finance about
7% equivalent of the cost of the program, which in turn, would
correspond to 15.6% of the estimated foreign exchange cost.
The items that would be financed under the loan include:  (a)
rehabilitation, paving and new construction contracts; (b)
maintenance equipment; (c) studies; and (d) technical
assistance. The project faces no unusual risks from an
economic or financial viewpoint. The Government's commitment
to the project, together with the strengthening of the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport/FVN and the safeguards
incorporated into the project make it reasonable to expect
that the project will be carried out as proposed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost 1982-1986 Program
Local      Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Project Costs:
Highway Capital Costs
Rehabilitation and Paving                   403.1       403.2        806.3
New Construction                            149.5       149.6        299.1
Equipment                                     -          63.9         63.9
Road Safety Program                           9.7        16.7         26.4
Training                                       2.2        1.0          3.2
Studies                                      23.4         7.8         31.2
Total Project Costs                 587.9       642.2     1,230.1
Other Program Costs:
Recurrent Costs:
Maintenance                                 539.7       123.1        662.8
Administration                              145.3          -         145.3
Other (Inland Waterways, Bridges)               81.1       99.0        180.1
Debt Service                                     -        110.9        110.9
Total 1982-86 Program               1,354.0       975.2     2,329.2
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                       -          2.3          2.3
Total                           1,354.0      977.5      2,331.5
Total Financing Requirements:
Fondo Vial Nacional
Gasoline Tax Revenues                     1,180.2       502.8      1,683.0
Cofinancing                                   -         216.5        216.5
Government Appropriations, Transfers
and Tolls                                 173.8       105.9        279.7
Sub-Total                       1,354.0      825.2      2,179.2
Proposed Bank Loan                               -        152.3        152.3
Total                           1,354.0      977.5      2,331.5
Estimated Disbursements:                  FY83        FY84      FY85       FY86
------(US$ million equivalent)----
Annual                              28.3        42.0      52.0        30.0
Cumulative                          28.3       70.3      122.3       152.3
Rate of Return:  Minimum of 12% but in practice higher.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3656b-CO, March 10, 1982



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
FONDO VIAL NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Fondo Vial Nacional, with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia,
for the equivalent of US$152.3 million to help finance the Highway Sector
Project. The Bank will finance the front end fee of US$2.3 million. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _i
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3556-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in September 1981. This section on the 3conomy reflects
the major findings of this report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex 1.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past 30
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater emphasis on
foreign trade has allowed the external sector to grow with non-coffee
exports, particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and
the range of products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-
industrial-services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of sur-
plus labor in rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in
the cities have given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon,
together with the increased participation of women in the labor force, has
been instrumental in reducing poverty and improving income and distribution
over time. Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the
growing needs of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant
in international capital markets.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-80
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
1/ Substantially unchanged from report for the Seventh Railway Project
(No. P-3192-CO, January 27, 1982).



-2-
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to 3.5%
range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after 1965 as a
consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic and edu-
cational opportunities for women, rapid rural-urban migration, rising per
capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs contri-
buted to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently grow-
ing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of women
now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is likely to
continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in both absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sani-
tation control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate
fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s
to 63 years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 20 per thou-
sand in the early 1960s to 8 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant morta-
lity, one of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 65 per thousand in the
later 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s.  School enroll-
ment ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels since 1960s, and
by the late 1970s, 91% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in
school. The poorest income groups have experienced the greatest increases in
electricity and water services in recent years and have benefitted more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely under-developed, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and eco-
nomically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are still not available to many of the
rural and urban populations and unemployment and underemployment are rela-
tively high. The coverage of health care and water supply requires conti-
nuous improvement and adequate housing is not available to a substantial pro-
portion of the population. Rapid migration to the large and medium-sized
cities has created urban development problems, with attendant social diffi-
culties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita income over
the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still required to improve and ext-
end the benefits of development to the poorest income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past thirty years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished and the country was
confronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that
economic activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by
developments in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint,
during 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy,
expanding and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increas-
ingly tapping the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, includ-
ing frequent exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export



incentives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs some-
what and freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency
and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets.
These measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange con-
straint and stimulating growth and employment. However, by mid-1970s the
economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the
world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic budget
deficits.
Recent Economic Development
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses
prevailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully
effective, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising
from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from
coffee exports, together with some official surrender of foreign exchange
from illegal exports, caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes
rose rapidly and stimulated aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Econo-
mic growth also accelerated and unemployment fell substantially, both in
rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated surpluses averaging about 7% of GDP
during the 1976-79 period, and by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has
had a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy,
largely as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.
Public investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to
economic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was
slowed and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to mode-
rate the growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion
and diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high
reserve requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in
real terms, the financing available to the private sector via the official
capital market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 but were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the
increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of mone-
tary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabiliza-
tion program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies -- and on the lending therefrom -- were freed from controls. To
offset the inflationary effects of these measures the authorities further
liberalized import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission
of new short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective
credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured
from private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the



-4-
surveillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the
above measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to
4% in 1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures con-
tinued.
10.       In 1981, manufacturing activity has remained sluggish, hemmed in by
the slow growth in aggregate consumer demand, and limited by power shortages
during most of the year. Coffee exports have fallen as a result of reduced
world demand and declining prices while non-coffee export growth has weaken-
ed. On a more positive note, construction activity, which had fallen sharply
in 1979-80, began to recuperate toward the end of the year.  In response to
favorable price incentives, petroleum production is estimated to have
increased by over 5% in 1981. Agricultural output has registered some gains
despite decreases in the area planted resulting from a prolonged drought.
Both public and private investment have expanded rapidly. Real GDP growth is
estimated to have reached 3-4% in 1981.  Inflation continued to be a problem
in 1981, however, with consumer prices increasing by about 27% for the year.
Despite world coffee prices at relatively low levels for most of the year,
Colombia's balance of payments continued to remain strong, with net official
reserves maintained at about one year of imports of goods and non-factor
services.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of
increased productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment,
improved distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will
require a major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inade-
quate economic and social infrastructure and insufficient demand. Infras-
tructure needs are most pressing in the energy, transportation, and agricul-
ture sector.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently formulated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN).  This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of
the PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale
and commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contrib-
uting to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to
be encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.



-5-
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers
in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for
special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) programs, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing atten-
tion from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required
deepening of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning
and execution sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters rela-
ted to financing the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out
the PIN strategy, inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or
insufficient domestic resource mobilization would be likely to result in sub-
stantial resource misallocation and to delay execution of the strategy. The
two most important sectors where additional work is urgently required are
energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1985 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 20% of total merchandise exports. In
the absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increas-
ing petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policy making have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the sector is still weak. A study about to be completed by
the National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for
improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing
decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals
for regulating consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to
producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude
have been raised to levels which provide adequate production incentives, and
the retail prices of petroleum products have been increased substantially in
recent years, which on the whole reflect international levels.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the develop-
ment of the country's vast coal reserves and agriculture. The State Railway
is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and rehabilita-
tion. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future investments to
the sector. An important part of this effort is the recently approved Rural
Roads, and Railway Rehabilitation Projects. The proposed Highway Sector
Project addresses the need for more efficient planning to insure that only



least-cost investments are carried out and that a sound policy framework for
the sector is established to deal effectively with the problems of intermodal
coordination and energy conservation in line with the Government's objec-
tives.
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development stra-
tegy outlined in the PIN . Over the 1981-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 15% p.a. in real terms. The energy and trans-
portation sectors are expected to account for the bulk (59.5%) of this
investment; however, sizeable real increases in investment are also expected
in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture and industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 8.4% of GDP during the 1981-85 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,603 billion (about US$20.5 billion). Private
investment will have to increase also during this period to provide the goods
and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms. Since this effort is
expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are expected.  The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the coun-
try's resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a shift
in the balance of payments from a small current account deficit of US$195
million registered in 1980 to a current account deficit projected to average
US$1,865 million, over the 1981-85 period. By the end of this period, net
official international reserves would have fallen to a level slightly over
four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a level which is
adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's creditworthiness.
This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP of 5.5%
during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit should improve
as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly from coal) and a
levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to about 2%
of GDP in 1987 and turn into a surplus of less than 1% by 1990. To achieve
real GDP growth of 5.5% per annum, gross domestic investment will have to



- 7 -
expand to about 25% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and 20% in recent
years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross
national savings would need to average about 22% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.3 billion in current prices for the 1981-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$2,057 million. About 26% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to cover
current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are expected
to provide 33% of these requirements, 50% is expected to come from foreign
suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from private
foreign investment. At the end of 1980, Colombia's public and publicly gua-
ranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$4.3 billion,
equivalent to 13% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was
25%. Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline
by bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 29% in
1983, before falling to about 25% in 1986. The debt service ratio at the end
of 1980 was 10% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 20% in
1988 and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt ser-
vice is expected to rise to about 26% in 1985 from about 25% in 1980. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1981-1990 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 96th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,490.9 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1981, US$2,687.5
million: IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 57 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-
77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$215 million in
1980 and US$249 million in 1981.  The gradually improving performance of
social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the
gradual containment of inflationary pressures, which should allow relaxation
of fiscal restraint, and increased Bank lending for infrastructure projects,
all point to higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made
investments and underwriting commitments of US$78.7 million in 26 enterprises
and, as of September 30, 1981, it held US$23.2 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981 and a brief report on the status of the 36 ongoing
projects.
21.       During the past 16 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become more
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, only 19 have been made to
these sectors since then from a total of 67 loans. In addition, all three
loans for education, 12 of the 14 loans for industry, 13 of the 15 agricul-
tural loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development and all
nine loans for water supply and sewerage, were made after 1966. The diversi-
fication was indeed a desirable aim as it provided closer contact with
Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served to iden-



- 8 -
tify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to
enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can
have a meaningful impact.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY81 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for rural roads, irriga-
tion rehabilitation and village electrification totalling US$550 million
equivalent.  In addition to the loan presented in this report and the ones
recently approved for railways and watershed management, the FY82 program
includes proposed loans for integrated rural development and rural educa-
tion.  Work is also under way on projects for petroleum development, mining,
oil refining, electric power, agricultural credit, agro-industries, ferti-
lizers, water supply and sewerage, ports and small-scale industry for pos-
sible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraph 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist in the
development of coal mines which hold potential to help Colombia meet part of
its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply of domestic petroleum, the Bank
plans to finance further petroleum projects as a complement to investments of
private firms and, for the first time, become involved in projects which pro-
mote the efficient processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy
sector would also assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobi-
lizing external finance as most of the projects would require substantial
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
support the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to increase and diversify exports. Closely related to
these objectives would be Bank lending for infrastructure, including the pro-
posed Highway Sector Project that would facilitate the increasing inter-
regional flows of goods and services. A port project under preparation is
aimed at enabling Colombia to handle larger volumes of non-traditional
exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy
relies for expansion. To permit efficient movement between inland points and
the ports of bulk cargo, particularly coal and agricultural exports, a
Seventh Railway Project to reshape and modernize railway infrastructure was
recently approved by the Board.  Finally, several loans are being prepared in
support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian
population. Lending for rural electrification, rural development, agricul-
tural credit, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and rural education proj-
ects is principally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased
since then to approximately 63% for the 1975-80 period and is expected to
decline further to about 30% of external capital requirements during 1981-
86. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related proj-
ects in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development,
agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification
and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in



- 9 -
developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector
activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, urban development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Governments of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Characteristics and Investment
25.       Colombia's advantage of having coastlines on both the Pacific Ocean
and the Caribbean Sea is offset by the difficulty of movement between the
coasts and the interior. The three massive ranges of the Andes Mountains,
running the length of two-thirds of the country, present formidable barriers
to communication between the main areas of population which, until recently,
developed as separate and isolated communities. In fact, the Magdalena River
provided the only overland route between the Central Region and the Caribbean
coast until the early 1960s and, even so, presented serious navigational
problems during the dry season. At this time, the Atlantic Railroad, con-
necting Bogota (the capital) and Medellin (the third largest city and one of
the country's most important industrial and agricultural centers) with the
Caribbean port of Santa Marta, the Eastern Road connecting Santa Marta,
Bucaramanga, Bogota and Neiva, and the Western Road connecting Cartagena,
Medellin, Cali and Pasto were completed. Although the development of road
and rail transport has lessened the importance of inland waterway shipping,
both the Magdalena and Cauca Rivers are navigable and account for almost all
inland shipping.
26.       The work to complete the basic transport infrastructure has
required a considerable proportion of the country's total investment.
Transport represented about half of Central Government investment in the late
1950s. When the trunk highway system and the Atlantic Railroad were being
completed, it exceeded 60% of Central Government investment. More recently,
however, transport's share has declined and since 1976 it has been about
12%. In 1980, Col$19,195 million (US$430 million equivalent) were invested
in the transport sector of which 86% was allocated to roads, 7% to ports
and inland navigation, 5% to airports and 2% to railways. Also in that year,
the transport sector contributed 9.4% of GDP. About 22.5 billion ton-km of
freight was transported; four-fifths by road, and the balance by other
modes. More than two-thirds of passenger traffic is carried by road.
27.       The Colombian National Railways (CNR), a semi-autonomous agency,
has a network of lines totalling 3,403 km (2,822 km currently in use) all
single track and narrow gauge. Colombia's difficult terrain has proven a
formidable foe of railway construction and maintenance. In recent years,
CNR's plant capacity and operation have deteriorated and its traffic has
declined, resulting in the need for increasing support from the National
Treasury. In view of the energy crisis and the development of mining in
Colombia, the Government is giving priority to the rehabilitation of CNR; the
already mentioned Seventh Railway Project is supporting the first phase of
this effort.



- 10 -
28.       Aviation transport developed at an early date (1920) and has become
a major mode of domestic and foreign travel. There are three national and
eleven foreign airlines providing international service, and 10 additional,
regularly-scheduled domestic carriers. Colombia has 70 airports, eight of
which are equipped for international flights.
29.       The country's principal seaports are Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta on the Atlantic Coast, and Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific
Coast. The ports move about 3 million tons of cargo per year, about half
through Buenaventura. However, goods are not evacuated from the docks in a
timely way because of unsatisfactory cargo-handling operations, labor diffi-
culties, lack of inland storage facilities and deficient transport services.
A faulty system of port charges also contributes to congestion, with unen-
forced demurrage levies that, in any event, are too low to discourage unne-
cessary storage. With UNDP financing and the Bank as executing agency, con-
sultants and the Colombian Port Authority, COLPUERTOS, have studied port
operations and containerization, and are considering possible corrective mea-
sures.
Highway Development and the Sector Approach
30.       The Network.  In the early 1950s, Colombia's highway system was an
incomplete, skeletal one, with existing roads characterized by poor alignment
and deterioration. Little more than a decade later, a trunk highway system
had been virtually put into place. The country succeeded in this enormous
endeavor, despite physical problems posed by unstable terrain and the strain
on national budgetary resources and institutional capability, largely because
of its determination to integrate isolated regions and to provide an overland
route for foreign trade. Thereafter, feeder and penetration road construc-
tion was accelerated to increase local community access to regional markets
and to services. Together with national and regional programs to increase
the coverage of water supply and electricity, small-scale industrial and ag-
ricultural credit, and telecommunications, an important start was thus made
toward the goal of national integration.
31.       The priority accorded to road building during the 1950s and 1960s
was not, however, accompanied by a lasting commitment to maintain the network
because, during the 1970s, the authorities embarked upon an ambitious public
expenditure program oriented toward the social sectors, partly at the expense
of the infrastructure sectors. By 1976, for example, maintenance ex-
penditures per kilometer had fallen to about half of the 1971 level in real
terms. Although this trend has been reversed in recent years (paragraph 48),
the effects of prior neglect are reflected in the highway authorities' having
had to devote more than a third of its funds during 1978-80 to road rehabili-
tation. At present, Colombia's 77,200 km network includes 23,100 km of na-
tional highways (one-third of which is paved) under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT), 40,400 km (2% paved) entrusted
to autonomous departmental public works agencies and 11,400 km under the res-
ponsibility of the National Feeder Roads Fund (FNCV), with the remaining
2,300 km private or municipal roads.
32.       In addition to sustaining the priority now assigned to maintenance
and rehabilitation works, Colombia is faced with the complex task of reshap-
ing and upgrading the highway network to take account of a pronounced demo-



- 11 -
graphic shift over the past 20 years and to support the coming leap in ex-
port-oriented activities, particularly mining. With 70% of the population
now residing in urban areas, reliable links among secondary and medium-size
cities are needed to support the growth and distributive objectives in the
national effort to decentralize economic activity away from the Bogota-
Medellin-Cali axis. Moreover, the transport sector has not kept pace with
the country's rapid structural transformation from an inward to an outward-
looking economy, a change which will intensify even more in the coming years
(paragraph 15). Deficiencies in the sector could impinge excessively upon
export performance which, in turn, could affect the country's creditworthi-
ness. To provide the infrastructure and transport services corresponding to
the above considerations requires careful sectoral planning, coordination of
services, and preservation of investments already made. While the Government
has made progress on these fronts, it has been uneven. The proposed Sector
Project would provide a medium for the comprehensive approach necessary to
deal effectively with many of the complex, inter-dependent factors involved.
Road Transport, Regulation and Traffic
33.       The Colombian economy has become highly dependent upon the availa-
bility of inter-city highways and road transport services and, as mentioned
above, will become even more so in future. Over 18 billion ton-km of freight
was moved by road in 1980, compared to 10 billion ton-km in 1970, represent-
ing an average annual growth of about 7% which exceeds average GNP growth du-
ring the period.
34.       Of the estimated 655,000 motor vehicles in Colombia, roughly
three-quarters are passenger vehicles, mainly automobiles. About 9% of
Colombian families own cars today, twice more than in 1960. The rest of the
vehicle fleet is trucks, which since 1973 have been increasing by 12% per
annum compared with 7% for automobilies. Some years ago, only smaller trucks
could negotiate the mountainous terrain on then-existing roads and, reflect-
ing the age of the fleet as well as regulatory mechanisms (paragraph 35),
this type of single-axle, gasoline powered vehicle still predominates.
Nevertheless, the number of trucks with payloads over 12 tons has been in-
creasing rapidly since 1976 and now accounts for one-third of total carrying
capacity. Fleet capacity appears adequate for present demand but it will
have to expand rapidly and services will have to be improved to keep pace
with expected growth of productive activity in the coming years.
35.       There are about 405 freight companies, representing about 60,000
trucks, licensed to provide services, and 617 passenger service companies,
with an estimated 89,000 vehicles. The complex regulatory system governing
these services has evolved over time in an effort to improve the industry's
operations and enhance cargo security. Although in the past the system
worked well, it now impinges unnecessarily upon industry growth and effi-
ciency of services.  In the context of the proposed project, the Colombian
authorities will seek to improve it through a study of transport regulation
and modal alternatives (paragraph 59d).
36.       Traffic volumes on most paved roads are in the 1,200 to 2,400
vehicles-per-day range, except around the major urban centers of Bogota,
Cali, and Medellin, where they may reach 7,000 vehicles per day. The average



- 12 -
composition of traffic is about 35% automobiles, 15% buses and 50% trucks.
The approximately 7,000 km of national highways upon which about 80% of traf-
fic movements are concentrated have received priority in the Government's
1982-86 program of rehabilitation and upgrading. In addition, improvements
in traffic management and road safety have also been planned, including more
careful licensing of drivers, vehicle inspection and enforcement of traffic
laws, as well as physical improvements in roads and signalling equipment, and
training of traffic safety personnel (paragraph 56). Vehicle weighing sta-
tions financed under the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO) are to be
placed in operation by December 31, 1983 and the Loan Agreement has been
amended accordingly in the documentation for the proposed Highway Sector Pro-
ject (Section 4.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Financing of Highways and User Charges
37.       Consistent with Government policy, most of the cost of constructing
and maintaining the road network is recovered from road users. This is done
primarily through a tax levied on gasoline and diesel fuels, which covers al-
most 69% of the expenditures of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT). 1/ The balance derives from Government transfers (11%), MOPT's own
resources (6%) and external loans (14%). Contributions from the national
budget to MOPT are essentially equivalent to road user charges collected
directly by the Government (paragraph 38). Funds from all sources are
channelled to MOPT through the National Highway Fund (FVN). FVN was created
in 1966 for this purpose, is administered by MOPT and also provides funds
from the fuel tax to FNCV and CNR for their operations. The Fund, together
with the fuel tax legislation, has been instrumental in supporting recent
efforts by MOPT to plan and carry out its programs in an orderly manner and
in freeing the Ministry from costly delays in receiving funds to pay its
contractors. This last-mentioned factor has been of considerable benefit to
the local construction industry.
38.       In addition to the fuel tax, there are several other taxes on road
users, but the proceeds accrue to the national treasury and/or local govern-
ments. The most important of these is the import duty on vehicles and spare
parts. For automobiles, the duty varies from about 200% to 450% of c.i.f.
value, depending on the type of vehicle. Import duties on trucks and pickups
range between 70% and 200%. Annual license fees are collected by the munici-
palities, who also levy a 20% surcharge on all vehicles weighing more than
1,400 kilograms (about 3,086 lbs). During negotiations, the Government con-
firmed that road user charges would continue to be adjusted to produce
sufficient funds to cover the cost of use by each category of user (Section
3.08 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Transport Policy, Coordination and Planning
39.       In addition to highways, MOPT is responsible for planning and coor-
dinating all modes except air transport. The National Planning Department
(DNP) supervises overall sector developments, must endorse investments pro-
posed by MOPT before they can be carried out, and participates in the coordi-
nation effort.
1/   The current price of gasoline and diesel fuels is about 95% of the
international price.



- 13 -
40.       In Colombia, past efforts to strengthen coordination of transport
investments and services have had mixed results, in part because the sharp
deterioration in railway services after 1974 (paragraph 27) precluded a se-
rious effort. Over the last six years, however, there have been several im-
provements. In 1976 modal coordination was centralized under MOPT's aegis,
and in 1980 the Ministry's organizational set-up was modified to facilitate
exercising its increasingly complex functions. Most notably, highway and
sector planning were separated, with the establishment of a Sectoral Planning
Office attached to the Minister's office and a Highway Planning Unit. Addi-
tionally, a National Transport Council has recently been created to consider
and advise MOPT on investment proposals and operational issues. The Council
is chaired by the Vice-Minister of MOPT and includes representatives from the
transport-related private sector and officials from each public sector mode.
Further, in response to high energy costs and mining development plans, re-
newed Government interest in the national railways, accompanied by a
recently-initiated program to improve its infrastructure, services and finan-
ces, is expected to open up more economical options for bulk commodity
flows. For example, there are cost savings possibilities for long distance
freight movements by combining road, rail and water transport services, in
some cases entailing the setting up of intermediate storage facilities. Un-
der the proposed project, means of developing complementary inter-modal ser-
vices will be explored through a study (paragraph 59c) and its conclusions
will be incorporated into the National Transport Plan (Sections 3.01(f) and
3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       In order for transport infrastructure and services to better serve
the Colombian economy, sector policy would require firming up. Needed are
overall sector development guidelines, explicit consideration of the energy
implications of transport development options, improved pricing relative to
costs and efficiency of services, sufficient and timely financing for
operations and investments (paragraphs 27 and 37), and clarification of
sector responsibilities at the various Governmental levels (paragraph 43).
As stated, an important initial step towards this goal has been taken in
PIN and in the different studies being carried out on ports, railways and
domestic energy balance. Further, two years ago Colombia completed its first
"in house" sector-wide planning exercise. The resulting National Transport
Plan is a technically sound document which will provide a valuable blueprint
for sector development once its focus is sharpened. In particular, the
Government's commitment to adopting least-cost investment solutions, taking
account of energy aspects and planned developments in other sectors, is not
yet fully reflected in the Plan. This is expected to be achieved through
further work and more regular updating of the document than has been the case
in the past, with the first review to be completed by December 31, 1983
(Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
42.       With respect to pricing of transport services, trucking industry
charges appear to be understated relative to costs. This is because road
user charges applicable to trucks correspond to only 70% of the cost attribu-
table to their use of the road network, thus giving road freight services a
pricing advantage over railways on many routes. The Government is aware of
the economic distortion this represents, particularly the effect on liquid
hydrocarbon consumption, and will address it in a study of transport regula-
tion (paragraphs 35 and 59d). Moreover, as mentioned, the Government has
confirmed its commitment to maintain charges in line with costs (paragraph
38).



- 14 -
Institutional Capability
43.       As a result of careful reshaping of MOPT, its organization is
well-suited to exercise its responsibilities. The Fondo Vial Nacional (FVN),
an autonomous public entity, has been established as the financial and
executing agency for MOPT's policies and programs. The Minister of MOPT is
the legal representative of FVN and in its day to day operations, FVN shares
the same staff and organizational structure as MOPT.  The Ministry/FVN's
senior personnel are experienced and capable. Middle managers have benefited
from a recent road maintenance-oriented training program and the technical
skills of field personnel have been strengthened, both activities financed
under the Seventh Highway Project (1471-CO). Under the Program, these will
be expanded to reach all remaining staff whose skills need reinforcement. At
the same time, MOPT's own training capability is to be strengthened so that,
in future, the Ministry will be able to attend to continuing staff training
needs on its own (paragraph 56). In line with national policy, under its
1982-86 Highway Development Program the Ministry is to begin decentralizing
road administration to departmental and municipal levels. It will establish
a task force including representatives of MOPT, DNP, FNCV and the Departmen-
tal public works agencies by March 1, 1983 to study the redistribution and
provide the Bank with an opportunity to comment on the recommendations
(Section 3.04a-c of the draft Guarantee Agreement). To be successful, it is
essential that this be done with clear assignment of responsibilities, ade-
quate financing arrangements, coordination of equipment and spare parts and
sufficient skilled manpower, and these matters are being duly taken into
account (paragraphs 54 and 59). Overall, MOPT has the capability needed to
execute successfully the proposed Sector Project, as well as the disposition
to take advantage of planned assistance.
Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
44.       Colombia's geometric design standards are well adapted to the coun-
try's varied and difficult terrain.  In addition to the standard range of
geometric design, special standards have been developed under the Seventh
Highway Project for handling the specific problem of upgrading roads. Fur-
ther research on matching construction specifications to local conditions
will be done (paragraph 57). MOPT has limited design capacity and uses con-
sultants for this purpose. While the recent reorganization has increased the
Ministry's engineering capability, it will continue to depend on consultants
for most design work. The consulting profession is well established in
Colombia. There are a number of capable Colombian engineering firms, most of
which have benefitted greatly from their participation in foreign-financed
projects in highways, power and other fields.
45.       Modern methods of highway construction were first introduced to
Colombia in the early 1950s, when experienced foreign contractors were em-
ployed on the First Highway Project. There are now about 86 local firms,
each capable of handling over US$1.5 million worth of road construction per
year. Few foreign civil contractors are presently working in Colombia. A
permanent register of firms, showing their technical and financing capacity,
is maintained and updated annually by MOPT. Each firm's capability to under-
take a particular contract is reviewed after presentation of bids. As a re-
sult of several improvements introduced during 1977, MOPT has a strict and
equitable basis for contracting. The Colombian construction industry, how-



- 15 -
ever, has been affected by the sharp decline in road-building activity during
most of the 1970s. With a view toward buttressing its efforts to cope with
the faster rhythm of projects that lies ahead, management and professional
training would be provided to the local construction industry in conjunction
with the training of MOPT personnel, and the possibilities for improved
access to financing would be explored (Section 4.01(e) and (d) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
46.       In connection with the Seventh Highway Project, MOPT has improved
and expanded road rehabilitation and maintenance. Toward this end, Pavement
and Equipment Management Systems have been developed to standardize these ac-
tivities throughout the country (paragraph 54). A support team of four engi-
neers will assist the Ministry's regional subdivisions in getting the Pave-
ment System underway and monitoring progress. A similar team to help with
the Equipment System, will be set up and by January 1, 1984, both systems
would be initiated in all the subdivisions (Section 3.01 of the draft Guaran-
tee Agreement). In addition, maintenance targets have been set and periodic
maintenance of the paved network is to be increased through the use of con-
tractors. It is expected that these measures will help to increase the an-
nual length of paved roads resealed from 400 km in 1982 to 600 km by 1986
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Past Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector and Lessons Learned
47.       Since 1950, the Bank has lent a total of over US$400 million equiv-
alent to Colombia's transport sector. Eight loans and one IDA credit total-
ling US$258.6 million have assisted in the construction, upgrading and main-
tenance of the trunk highway network, which connects the main population cen-
ters of the country as well as the expansion of the rural road network. Two
loans for US$40.9 million financed the construction of the Atlantic Railroad,
from La Dorada, near Bogota, to Fundacion, near Santa Marta, a distance of
672 km. Four loans totalling US$78.7 million supported railway
rehabilitation, including the acquisition of rolling stock for the Atlantic
Railroad. A loan for US$77 million for the Seventh Railway Project will
assist in rehabilitating the main line and strengthening the railway
institution, CNR. A loan for US$61 million is helping finance the
construction of a modern airport at Rio Negro, near Medellin, and
improvements in the Cartagena and Bogota airports. Through the Rural
Integrated Development Program (DRI), the Bank is financing the construction
of additional rural roads and would enlarge the scope of this support under
the proposed DRI II project to be considered by the Executive Directors
during this fiscal year.
48.       Five of the above-mentioned highway projects have been audited by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and the Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 680-CO of June 1970) will be reviewed shortly. 1/ Overall these pro-
jects were executed successfully, although with delays and cost overruns, and
have contributed substantially to the integration and economic expansion of
the country (24 road sections of the first three projects which were analyzed
1] "Bank Operations in Colombia: An Evaluation," Report No. Z-18, 1972 and
"Project Performance Audit Report, Colombia:  Fifth Highway Project (Loan
550-CO)," SecM78-152 of 1978.



- 16 -
had an average rate of return in excess of 25%). Major difficulties under
the earlier projects derived from the need to redesign some road sections and
higher than estimated costs, as final engineering was not completed at
appraisal. Subsequent projects have encountered problems in the slow avail-
ability of counterpart funds, inadequate attention to maintenance, poor
contract management and insufficient supervision. Substantial progress has
been made in taking corrective measures, particularly with respect to funding
and maintenance. Under the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO of June
1977), important advances are being made in promoting adequate allocation of
resources to highway maintenance and in making efficient use of those
resources.
49.       Overall Bank involvement in Colombia's highways falls into three
time periods. The first covers the years 1951 to 1961, in which three sector
loans and a credit supported the country's first Highway Plan. The second
period, from 1961 to 1970, comprised three loans for specific projects.
After a hiatus of seven years, while awaiting absorptive capacity improve-
ments in MOPT and, in particular, the establishment of a sound pricing policy
for gasoline and diesel fuel, the Bank resumed lending for highways in 1977
(1471-CO). At this time, the Bank returned in part to the sector approach
since, in addition to financing the improvement of specific road sections, it
tackled the country's deficient highway maintenance efforts by financing a
program of works selected annually by MOPT and agreed by the Bank, which is
working well so far. Also, the recent loan for the Rural Roads Project (Loan
1966-CO of 1981) follows a sector approach in that the Bank finances a
portion of the Government's rural roads program and future works are decided
upon on a regular basis as the project advances.
50.       It has been clear for some time that the Bank can have its most
meaningful role in supporting sound transport policy and development by
focusing at the sector level.  This focus has thus characterized the Bank/
Government dialogue and has permitted a comprehensive approach to the work in
progress on ports and railways and the ongoing efforts mentioned above.
Furthermore, the sector approach will expand the discipline normally asso-
ciated with project lending to the whole MOPT program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Program and Project Description
51.       The project, prepared by MOPT, comprises the Ministry's 1982-86
Highway Development Program. It was appraised in August 1981 and January
1982. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during the week of March 1,
1982 with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Pablo Bocarejo, Assistant to the
Minister, MOPT and Dra. Leonor Montoya, Director of Public Credit, Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3656b of March
10, 1982) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
52.       The project would support preservation and upgrading the national
highway network, consonant with the requirements implied by the Government's
ongoing strategy to foster economic growth and decentralization of productive
activity. In line with this, the project is also aimed at encouraging
adoption of minimum cost transport solutions over the medium term,



- 17 -
complemented by a cohesive transport policy and regulatory framework as well
as an adequate financing plan. Finally, the project seeks to facilitate the
local construction industry's efforts to recover from a prolonged slump in
construction activity during the 1970s to assist it in coping effectively
with the larger volume of work available now and in future years.
MOPT's 1982-86 Program
53.       MOPT's budgeted program of works consists of road rehabilitation
and paving (35%), maintenance (28%) and new construction (13%), with the ba-
lance divided among equipment, inland waterway maintenance, training,
traffic safety and studies. A recent survey indicates that at least half of
the road network would require rehabilitation and/or paving during the next
10 years. Under the Program, this has been translated into annual targets
that encompass 7,140 km of roads requiring urgent attention. Average daily
traffic on these roads averages upwards of 700 vehicles, 35%-70% of which is
trucks. The decision on the specific roads to be rehabilitated or paved
would be based upon, for each such subproject, in the first stage, a basic
data sheet including a summary of the economic feasibility analysis using the
Highway Design Model developed by the Bank and adopted by MOPT, and in the
second stage a second basic data sheet including detailed engineering data
(Section 3.01(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). All sub-projects would
have a minimum economic return of 12%, the opportunity cost of capital in
Colombia (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of the high
return normally associated with maintenance and rehabilitation works, average
actual returns are expected to be much higher. The portfolio of subprojects
already evaluated and ready for tender amounts to 1,150 km (virtually all
rehabilitation and paving subprojects), with a further 1,100 km at the
engineering stage (paragraph 59).
54.       The maintenance portion of the Program calls for setting up,
throughout the Ministry's regional subdivisions, the Pavement and Equipment
Management Systems already introduced successfully on a pilot basis in con-
junction with the Seventh Highway Project. The entire road network is to be
classified according to four categories of required maintenance, from emer-
gency to preventive. Using this and other pertinent data, the pavement sys-
tem provides uniform criteria for identifying the most cost effective actions
and their timing. Although it will take about 10 years to reach the target
of bringing the entire network to the preventive maintenance stage, a large
share of this effort will be concentrated on the five-year Program period, as
reflected in the planned doubling, in real terms, of maintenance expenditures
per kilometer by 1986 compared to 1980. Suitable road selection criteria is
built into the Pavement System. Covering an estimated 3,250 km by 1986,
these works would be performed by contract on the more heavily used roads and
by force account on the remaining ones (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Guaran-
tee Agreement). MOPT is fully aware that the success of this endeavor rests
upon provision of adequate guidance to the responsible subdivisions and upon
close monitoring of the system and has developed suitable programs in this
regard. Recently, the Ministry has put into effect an equipment renewal po-
licy developed under the Seventh Highway Project. About half of its 4,200
units are either obsolete or beyond repair. In line with the new policy,
vehicles would be replaced after seven years or 250,000 km; equipment after
seven years or 12,000 hours; and machinery after 15 years of 12,000 hours.
The acquisition program to replace aged and obsolete units includes about



- 18 -
1,590 units to be delivered in 1982/83 which would result in a fleet that
would broadly match maintenance requirements. Further purchases during the
1982-86 would be in accordance with the Equipment Management System and would
take account of the policy of contracting out periodic maintenance activi-
ties, in particular overlays and sealing (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
55.       New construction planned over the period anticipates some 750 km,
including urban by-passes, and safety and capacity-increasing works; however,
because of the focus on preserving the existing network, new construction
would be reduced first if the overall Program is cut. All such sub-projects
would be subject to feasibility studies and detailed engineering before in-
clusion in MOPT's work program (Section 3.01(b)(ii) and (e) of the draft Loan
Agreement.
56.       The road safety portion of the Program includes provision of traf-
fic signs, road markings and guard rails for 5,400 km of high density roads,
construction of four experimental rest areas along major highways and 10 ve-
hicle diagnostic centers, and establishment of a safety training facility and
instructional program. Forty scholarships would be given to enable training
abroad of relevant staff for about three months each, strengthening of
INTRA's traffic regulatory capacity, creation of a National Traffic Education
Committee and promotion of Traffic Safety Clubs and School Traffic Brigades.
Safety criteria are to be introduced into all new highway engineering, con-
trol over vehicles and drivers increased, and accident statistics improved.
In addition, MOPT's overall staff training program is intended to enlarge
upon and diversify the training activities initiated under the Seventh High-
way Project. Specifically, a policy on staff training would be formalized,
the training division would be augmented by additional specialized staff, a
mobile training unit would be established to assist field foremen, equipment
operators and drivers, a program initiated to improve the skills of mechani-
cal personnel, seminars would be held for the benefit of professional main-
tenance staff and selected senior personnel would receive management training
abroad.
57.       The Program provides for a study of trucking regulations and modal
alternatives. Furthermore, MOPT will sponsor a steering committee to enhance
the capacity of the local construction industry through management and
professional training seminars and by investigating a financing system for
the industry. Finally certain high priority research would be contracted
with universities concerning alternative construction materials and asphalt
emulsion technology. The details of this research are to be firmed up by
July 1, 1983 (Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Description and Financing
58.       The proposed project would finance items included in MOPT's 1982-86
Program (estimated to cost about US$2.3 billion equivalent and to have a for-
eign exchange component of US$977.5 million equivalent) which, in fact, re-
presents a time-slice of a continuous program. The Bank loan represents
about 7% of the cost of the Program and 15.6% of the foreign element. The
balance of financing needed would be provided by FVN from fuel taxes, about
US$1.7 billion, or 72% of the total; MOPT's own resources and Government
transfers, US$279.7 million, or 12%; and existing and new external loans,



- 19 -
including the Seventh Highway Project, US$216.5 million or 9%. FVN, which is
MOPT's executing agency and which carries out the policies and programs
defined by MOPT, will be the Borrower for the proposed loan and will carry
out the project (paragraph 61).
59.       The elements included for Bank financing are:
a)   rehabilitation, paving and new construction sub-
projects which will be defined annually based upon
the agreed criteria and procedures mentioned above,
with annual work targets monitored closely to ensure
that only realistic volumes of works are initiated
(Sections 3.01 and 3.05 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The forecast annual targets appear well
within MOPT's capability. About 25 subprojects,
valued at US$113 million, have been reviewed and
contracts for US$55 million have already been
awarded. To assist MOPT in establishing the
analytic and selection criteria as a permanent
feature, all subprojects would be subject to prior
Bank review and agreement to establish eligibility.
An estimated 87% of the proceeds of the proposed
loan apply to rehabilitation and paving; new
construction subprojects would be financed only if
demonstrated to be of high priority on the basis of
feasibility studies;
b)   civil works for road safety and training including
construction of safety devices, 4 rest areas, 10
vehicle diagnostic centers and 3 training
facilities. This component would represent
approximately 3% of the proposed loan.
c)   equipment including maintenance-support equipment,
tools, machinery, laboratory equipment, and mate-
rials and equipment related to the safety and train-
ing components of the Program, which would not nor-
mally be financed by suppliers' credits. Specific
equipment requirements and their justification would
be presented annually for Bank review and approval
(Section 3.01(b)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).
This component would represent approximately 52 of
the proposed loan;
d)   studies, which have been fully defined and for which
terms of reference have been agreed will investigate
trucking regulations and modal alternatives, road
construction technology and highway administration
(Sections 3.01(f) and (g) and 3.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement); technical assistance to assist MOPT
in strengthening its capacity to deal with aspects
of planning, modal coordination, decentralization,
methods, research, supervision, safety and staff
training. Because of the specialized expertise



- 20 -
needed, it is expected that about 30% of the servi-
ces needed would be performed by foreign consultants
at an average cost of US$10,000 per man-month. All
such services would be provided by consultants with
qualifications and experience, and under terms and
conditions, acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Five percent of the pro-
posed loan pertains to studies and technical assist-
ance.
Monitoring
60.       Special attention has been devoted to devising close monitoring
procedures that will permit problems to be detected and remedied at an early
stage and allow experience obtained to be put to practical use as the project
unfolds. The ultimate objective is for MOPT to develop suitable monitoring
capacity and procedures; technical assistance to be provided will assist in
this. In addition to presenting to the Bank quarterly progress reports,
semi-annual meetings to review the Program in detail will be held with the
Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, Bank review of
each proposed subproject would provide MOPT with continuous feedback on the
use of evaluation criteria and help ensure sound use of resources.
The Executing Agency, MOPT/FVN
61.       FVN, which is an autonomous public entity, is the executing and
financial agency for MOPT and will directly undertake the loan and the proj-
ect. FVN, which is represented by the Minister of MOPT, shares MOPT's staff
and structure. MOPT is headed by a Minister appointed by the President of
the Republic. The Ministry is subdivided into a General and a Technical
Secretariat. The General Secretariat comprises three Directorates: Bidding
and Contracting, Commercial and Financial, and Industrial Relations. The
Computing Activities Services, the Treasury, the Budget and Accounting System
and the Personnel Division also form part of the General Secretariat. The
Technical Secretariat includes the Directorates of National Properties, Navi-
gation and Harbors, and Highways. Four subdirectorates operate under the
Highways Directorate: Projects, Supervision, Equipment and Assessment. In
addition, the Highways Directorate is responsible for MOPT's 26 regional
districts which carry out the road maintenance. MOPT's total personnel of
about 13,000 employees, which includes 11,100 staff in the Districts, remains
somewhat high because of staff seniority status and labor union pressures.
MOPT's total professional staff is about 780, divided between the Headquar-
ters in Bogota and the Districts. Officers in the Districts are almost
entirely engineers. In Bogota, some 10% of the staff are engineers and the
rest are lawyers, economists, accountants and administrators. MOPT intends
to continue recently adopted policy to contain payroll expenditures (Section
5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       MOPT/FVN's accounting and financial functions are the responsi-
bility of its Commercial and Financial Directorate. Its accounting system
meets standard requirements and reflects MOPT's and FVN's activities sepa-
rately. Good control is provided for all expenditures for projects in execu-
tion. Monthly and annual balance sheets are submitted to the General Comp-
troller of the Republic. Cost accounting for maintenance is being introduced



- 21 -
gradually in an effort to increase efficiency. The Government's annual
budget, once approved by the Congress, is the means by which annual
appropriations are made for MOPT through the FVN. Budget execution is
verified by the Accounts Section, as well as by the Internal Auditing and by
a delegate of the General Comptroller of the Republic. The Minister of
Finance assigns a monthly quota of expenditures based on an "Agreement of
Payment" and the corresponding amount is deposited in a special account. In
order to meet contractual obligations, Directors of the Executing Units
request from the Financial Director the allocation of corresponding funds.
Disbursements are handled in an appropriate way. The Office of the General
Comptroller of the Republic annually audits programs financed with external
funds, and they are satisfactory. In conjunction with the proposed project,
they will be presented each year to the Bank. Furthermore, separate accounts
for the Program and FVN's other undertakings will be maintained (Section 5.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       The contracts for civil works (construction, rehabilitation, paving
and safety structures) and the purchase of equipment financed by the loan
would follow international competitive bidding procedures and the Bank's
guidelines for procurement. The contracts for studies and technical assis-
tance would also be awarded following satisfactory guidelines. Contracts for
training facilities (two training centers) estimated to cost US$0.2 million
equivalent would be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank.
64.       Disbursements would be made against (a) 50% of civil works and
related supervision services; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported
vehicles and equipment; (c) 90% of local expenditures for locally-procured
equipment, tools or machinery; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for training,
technical assistance or consulting services carried out by foreign consultant
firms or individuals; and (e) 50% of total expenditures for technical assis-
tance or consulting services if contracted locally. However, no withdrawals
would be made from the Loan Account for civil works whose estimated
completion cost exceeded by more than 50% the estimated detailed engineering
cost on which the confirmation of eligibility for Bank financing was based
(Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Expenditures incurred after loan
signature for rehabilitation and paving works related to subprojects
contracted after September 1, 1981, would be eligible for financing under the
loan. It is anticipated that the loan will be fully disbursed by June 30,
1986.
Benefits and Risks
65.       Adequate transport infrastructure is essential to support growth
objectives. The Colombian highway network is deteriorated and does not
serve this purpose in its present condition and the proposed project aims at
making substantial inroads to remedy this situation, as well as to foster the
domestic capability to overcome it permanently. The policy improvements
anticipated are designed to encourage economically sound transport investment
decisions and operations in the interest of efficient allocation of scarce
resources. There is no sensible way of quantifying project benefits at this
stage, but procedures incorporated into the project will ensure that only



- 22 -
subprojects with an economic return in excess of the estimated 12% oppor-
tunity cost of capital will be undertaken and, among these, those with the
highest returns will be selected first.
66.       The risk that project objectives may not be fully realized cannot
be dismissed lightly, given their scope and complexity. The decision of the
Bank to go forward, is based upon the firmness of the Government's commitment
to the undertaking, careful assessment of MOPT's ability to perform as plan-
ned, and the incorporation of appropriate safeguards into the project
itself. Further, the flexibility afforded in the commitment of loan funds
would enable MOPT to respond quickly to urgently needed works as they are
identified, thus assuring execution of a priority program. Given these ele-
ments, the risk is judged to fall within acceptable margins and the project
is expected to be carried out substantially as envisaged.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Fondo Vial Nacio-
nal, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Exe-
cutive Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of tle Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 15, 1982
Washington, D.C.



Annex I
- 23 -                                               Page I of 5
COLUMBIA - SUCIAL IHDICATO0S DATA SHlT
CULonE7A                      REFEUZCE GROUPS (WIGIHTE0 AYE  AGS
LAND9 ARLA (THOUSAND *Q. KM.)                                                         - MDST EECENT ESrIMATE)'
TUTAL            1138.9                                  hOST RUCEIT             MIDDLE IHC01tC           KIDDLE INCOME
ACKlCULTURAL      132.0               1960  b    1910 A  ESTImATE  b    LATIN AMEEICA 6 CUBBEAL                EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   250.0       400.0    1010.0*                   1616.2                     2609.1
EN EGY CONSUlPTIQH PER CAPIA
(LILOGR.AMS OF CUAL UEUIVALENT)     510.2        659.7     937.9                    1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AhW VITAL STATISTICS
eQPULATION. nlD-YEAR (TIOUSANDS) 15754.0       21266.0   26122.0
UYYAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2          59.8       69.1                     64.2                       53.2
PULATION PRUJECTIUNS
PUPULATION IN YEAK 2000 (MILLIONS)                         39.9
STATIUbARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                           61.0
YEAIK STATINARY PUPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
PQPULAION DENSITY
PER Sq. KMt.                       13.8         18.7       22.9                     34.3                      80.6
PEK SQ. KP. AGRICULTURAL LAND      72.5         95.7      110.2                     94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTIUE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRb.                          46.8         46.2       38.2                     40.7                      30.1
15-64 YKS.                          50.3         51.0       58.6                     55.3                      61.5
65 YKR. AND ASBVE                    2.9          2.8        3.2                      4.0                       8.3
PUPULAIION GCAWTH YATE (PEYCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.0        2.3                      2.4                        1.5
URbAN                               5.7          5.2        3.9                      3.7                        3.1
L.UDE BIRTH RA7E (PER TIKJUSAND)      45.5        36.3       30.1                     31.4                       22.9
CKUDE DEATH RATE (PER HuOUSAND)       14.0         9.5        7.9                      8.4                        9.1
GCUSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3         2.6        1.9                      2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNINC
ILLEPTUtS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         .        115.4      142.1
USEMS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOKEN)    ..            ..       46.1
FUUD AND NUTRITIUN
INDEX OF FUUU PRODUCTIWN
PEK LAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0         99.0      124.0                    108.3                     119.8
PEK. CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
kAl)UlaIIENTS)                   97.0         88.0      102.0                    107.6                     125.7
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0         48.0       52.0                     65.8                      92.5
UF WHlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0        24.0       26.0                     34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) 9URTALITY RATE       19.d        12.0        8.3                      7.6                       3.4
aEALIH
LIFE EXPELIANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.3          59.1       62.7                     64.1                      68.9
INFANT MURIALITY RATE (PER
THUUSAND)                             77.0          ..       65.0                     70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TU SAFE WArER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATIUN)
TOTAL                              30.0d          ..       64.0                     65.7
URBAN                              54.9d          ..       73.0                     79.7
RURAL                               6.8]d         ..       46.0                     43.9
ACCESS TU EiCKETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TOIAL                                           47.0       44.4                     59.9
UIlAN                                ..         75.0       60.0                     75.7
YUYAL                                            8.0       14.0                     30.4
PUPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN           2638.9       2189.5    1966.7                    1728.2                     973.3
POPULAIWN PER NURSING PERSON       3740.0       1923.4    1250.0                    1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                             362.9        449.4     619.1                     471.2                     262.3
UR8Ab                                ..        377.5     540.3                     558.0                     191.8
AURAL                                 ..          ..
AULSSIONb PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        22.9       29.8                       ..                      18.2
H4IUSI94C
AVERAGE SIZE OF KOUSEHoLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.7         **
URXAN                                ..          5.5         .
AURAL                                 ..         5.9         .
AVERAGE NUMBER UF PEWSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         1.8         *
URBN                                  ..         1.6&        ....
AURAL                                ..          2.4         .
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF UWELLINGS)
TUTAL                              47.0"        58.14        .
URJUN                              83.OLd       87.54        .
RURAL                               S.0l       13.2          ..  



- 24 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                     REFEUNCE GOUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAB
- MOST UtCtlT EtMATE1 -
NDST RICCZNrMIDLE iEEEm                   KDULE IMEE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AH RICA & CARIBBAN            EURP
EDUCATVON
ADJUFSTE ENiOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 77.0       103.0      124.0                    101.7                     105.9
MALE                 77.0        101.0     122.0                    103.0                     109.6
FINALE               77.0        105.0     127.0                    101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0        24.0       43.0                     35.3                      66.3
MALE                  13.0        24.0      43.0                     34.9                      73.2
FEMALE              '11.0         24.0      44.0                     35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY)  31.0/a       20.0       22.0                     30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.0        36.0       33.0                     29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          11.0        17.0       21.0                     15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        63.0        80.8         ..                     80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSEHCtl CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0        11.2       I8.1                     42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        125.1       104.3      117.1                    215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.5        38.1       74.0                     89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  56.0          ..       54.4                     62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       4.1                      3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
'OT= -LA8OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4726.5       6353.4    8652.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   19.2        24.8       24.7                     22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.4        37.9       27.1                     35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2        21.0       21.1                     23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.0        29.9       33.1                     31.8                      42.3
MIALE                                48.8        45.1       49.8                     49.0                      56.5
FElALE                               11.5        14.8       16.4                     14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.7          1.6       1.2                      1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/d f    31.9/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67 .7/8i    60.1/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21/df       3.57.f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   6i8si        10i.17        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ARSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      214.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      197.0                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      267.0                   513.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      1Z2.0                   362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       34.0
RURAL                                ..          ..
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a   The droup averages for each indicator are populationv eightd aritlhetic macns.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depeods on availability of data and to not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betvae  1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimta, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1973;  /d 1964;  /a Including teacher training at the third level;  /f Economically active populadton.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1180 (at 1978-80 prices) and 26.7 million.
May, 1981



-25-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
IEPI9ITIINS IF SOC11 I901CALTORS
4ocos   aIchoogh abs d.cc ore doao  too. scoo.s. g....rally judged ths sst achorloatots And ra1lablo. Ia should also ha aIsa  chat than may ccc bs Inter-
-oso-olycopooa..blo  b.o.us. of ohs lack of oondardtood dslci.irns aud Ico.copos aasd by ditffopor   .ou.t-tna 10 oula .o    h  data.  Th. daca nton. coos-
rhsl...a.. afful. odsa...thb  ordoon of naatucud., hadI luac  trude, nod, u-rJ.,a orau  na  dirforonass botnnscouac--s..
Th  onfornoco           1 go . III cho  a   uobc-y scop of ts suojact country sAd (2) a uostry troop oldh somonhoc highar cosr-gi aome taco cbs  Icinar  troop
ofab  Icb    =c anr  (-aust for "CaPicul Surplec Oil oporteos," trooep  h.ce. "Pliddls I-cm  Mooh Aric. and iddls feast" Is chosen hatnas  of  tnrongo
oAci-olora Jaf           -)cla.  I  .   roe fs-u  group d.c. the. enoa- oreIpopslacco   ishlged ncthenlc le ras  o  ec  lada.Cado  sed  hoo- only we
eaJority of cb   onoo  I     co   eedt   u   u    odcatr.   acs..  th               Ianog f cIrrosaae  h Jlcoodopcc  00ca  anilahullcy of do..
on    e In Icto  Ac aLtee onan  chs  loc eycd  nf-rnoes groups.
LAND ARI  (thousadfsqade.)                                                                        Pouoi;co,opclhd- total.rbe   anId rua-                      -PplaIn(ncl
Toall - Total naruc  000ceoenludon   n   ece    aonero.adrrl   Ilddb   ha   opoisn.ro  hooptcel bade
AejulatoiliOs  - ottoano of croluu  acm eun           .o-slly or poenofoetly                      a-e1lbla In publIc And poteca gonerl cad enenIllo-d h-splcalandfOs-
l'efoo  poouee., sarkon and kdcbo  orh-Io  n  1. fal1ooc till data.                           hcblllcaclonooeesrs.. oPltaLaarnssohIhlleet   pomenaly sea fa
by ct Isoo  one physfiotn.  footbllahosonca P-oidiog Poisa.lpeli         . aue-
GIRI ron  CAPTAt (US#) - GMP par carlas ctoo  oc c-conn  oah.oo ptac... I.-                         dtaI..lor  ace non inaladd.  minI hop.iclaI. bawenen, inclodo hacLth
anlatodV by oa     roonrno   sthod ae Worl  SagA AnIse (1971-79 habeli; 19h0,                     and nsdt.cl osocors ca  pnronnly soffad by a phynlolan  (hoe hya
lit,an  11  dcc.,                                                                               nedla  scitaa  nursl    ndnu, ceo.) ouch ofc    n-o. etats
datioc cad prontdoa.llatd   an  o   alulfcOlla.Prstne
ENE1RG  CINSi9TION PfR CAPITA - Ancool ocemtoi_cfola   toy'cloal po-Posoc utha  honoltale inclada WHcO.  oolalnn lhosptal.1
and llgnlan  penrlno, naco..al gee Anid hydo-. oula     doetcra   ls-uuuo  )uoettoa(uItonl  optl  and '   nedca  and   'acorl
rality  In All mao  col1q960n opcpta   i, 1970, and 1979                                        cetr."olc odhsIasac   olddol  Irder tonal.
dta.                                                                                           Adolseot  -n Ho.ieal ted    T. Totli number of adlcitta. to or disoheegos
oon    Jeplala ololdod by  h anonubs  uf hen..
POPULtATtIO AND0 VITAL STATISTICS
Total PopoLtilco.. ftid-_o.. Ic_..ande) - As If July 1: 19h0, 2970,. ad 1979                  _______
dana.                                                                                         AVeco l..f..      csH.d(cnot.          pr..shod -...    tol. uraInd rurl.
ohaai.. Pooltlo-  (P- ...tI of totl)-  ed  on       thnnooalpoualt                                Atocaodosseofanupfl.dldaohae.hor   "Ict.g quota
dlfferucdetucoco If urban ara  na. y            farc ucparohlly of dccc                         -Id choirn: t  osal,lo.  A hoader orI.g lodnrny or nay non he  noodad it
aeo .gc ..cntea; ha,1977,. ea  1979 data.                           .                       thocseod fo  occatulpryo
PJoairOnictn                                                                          Acrn  coo  of  ooso_a  c- noo-total. urhan. and rural - Anoaoc
Parulnalon  o  nar lilt - Crewnt population projeotoce   r lhaaod; ot 299                hoP of Peecut  nor noon to all urhot. and rura  occupied toenencoona
noonac for carnality let. alec  cans ohms. Ita-oco             dan1ioc Lt                     of noce. orhoc. and cor   doolil.coponney
f_irntlltyaotodtcg toIntn   eo   n   atfaly Plan.... phe              onnne..
tuoh  _oo_r  ia coso asEDdcaoUtselccbocos  fnnolc                                        CICATION
ond conillly leoods too c10tioccos.4I'otd toln ntto
itetotan   rcolaton-oaatctoary   onuP tio  thereJ  PIn  ooot  clt                     onr   ool-ttl   aocdtal-ns    aa.ot nd fmob
tic hlcti cats 1  squat on ohs d.eth rus,cd alec ohs age etrutc ..orlao   fal   nsa                                             priaay    7 tona   us  yoetgoo of rso
nalc  teoco.  Tht  Jc achlsod otIy at.on  fertility reteo declita cc                            picarycbo-gappatne  normlly inLudco chil1dren  god h-1l
,hc ropilatoa  len1 of uIt  c   nrduto ae -               ohan a-h aIarocy-tears but adlusand_fr  lr es lif                         ongoha1111  of tpriear aY -aton I   o
of' _o-a   spLa..s  -Isef o-Ity.  Tha ocotiotary Pupolalo L a..        a : ,                    Iouonto  nIhed.ttoerSll sd _ocionoolp,eotny, en:sd  0ii rernt
Iotgo   n absheoucll  of tho ppo(tnd% ocr-d         Iaio   f ohs PoPolaio JabcsI noe7pnil  ore1  bI-o or aboe the offiola1 sobool cgt
_Ia he ey   2000, an d tse rota of dLine off t...talcyrellntona.Ia.a-                         qetnday shol -totl.  nt   eojoej    Caqnpoed a  abov; aeoo&e'dy
slehsheo sahbd.                                                                          ua.aly of .21o 1.  ynr   fsn;coa odooooa  ace ganoralp
Fon co.  n. - HOld-y-I     apltlnpoP aqous  ulea            (lIt hoa-onaa  ofIaaoa   noleo   nreaf                                    sicduo .. I   oateoallaeunon
total arc; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dana.                                                            uielude torlnal-, ltunra,oohr praran  which oprtaLdapo-W
fno so. We. aroltrllanid - Conp-td ec alon  for- gatltra   Ad                                     "o ra   opaonao  eoooytcinieaoJ.
otI; 1960, li7t an  1970 dean.                                                              yi-LI~-tsahe   atlio - urnay  and. cnodrn-tta   ed-seeoda
fooltocM   iSt_a_    (P .....' - Chi.ldas  (0-14 yoacc) -, nring-.$. 71)-                     priaycooonoylnl   Iie   ynaono   ocseh   b
64 ysar), an.    aue   (iyanaad1onno) uspranoo   f ai-erPopo-= ooospcdl   -Idisoebls.-   ftet..   .  h
aco;1960. li7t, and 1919 doc.'                                                             Adult   sa      nt  (P.r.-,) -Lilleat  adults Labia to read end wrinef
Poroal-tu  ioa G.- Raee  9crno e)-9octal- Monet  gorhctos of tota  sad-                            coapretg    f total odolt ycpinlato  agod 05 years and P-n--
yer papulacior  E.o  190-hf., hit-nt. ad 1970-79.
Iotos  u  195_0-h.10-0.   ad  00-9                                   ida,..aaeeo Cars (oarchcaan  ..on.ci. n P                           eomo   ae         ptcna
Condolot  ae  per tho-sa) - Aunua1 lIon birahe P.,ohc...aad of  idyocre encn  Inn   tenight  esn;caodssnacs  hearsos  end
"oplatn;uhf   17, ad1979 data,                                                           sill nary   hale
Codo   at  Ras  co  tho....a.) - ounncl dnaths pa  ano-uads of sad-yn-                          tala4i  hac!ZEto     (ocr obhNoad  onltBnj         All typos of  -noins for radio
pouala; 9hO    it  and 1979 data                                                      broad uat  no essnL p..io. anIhouan  of popalacton; snaidee a0
Rr.a.ordono  n -unorga cube  of daisheers a nm             1ul boar i cILc.....d ooioah   onr'ssdO.er   bo   sloccno    di.
her o-ro      P rerducnc  yert..od  !:If ohs annienoa  pnuaott ag.-. o.ta . f ensasnatrfsnda ffur  acea  ynJe mynanbecearbl  alas
:_lnrae;uu   ,i flv_ysar  rnogne ondi.g in 1960, 1970. and 1979.                       son   otnresaobohd IL .os.slog.            TV.i
fullyV PI,nlne-uoosr.. rs  acul(hcedo       aulnmbro   oocrs                                    0   oerr  (nor,oaoa-n  onoo.lachtf        raeano   for hnoedcaa   t
of brthconroldencee  ndo  au paseIf onclusi   amol  plnto   anrm                        geea   oA        e  thco and PoPolaion.;    -lunoai-etnd TV rnlon
familn Pl-innl- L.ara  roreaen  of  anried .-oan) - Pr Intae. of noantad                         JuoIoun.pleaaa d Ic years ohsa o0ict-nc Ioof T  ..c..en  Iin effete.
-men of child-barong ago (15-4A4cs Y.         o use ctyt-tot-ri dcmi... no                    boeco   inlninlo   booo   noaun      hw   i   _nora. tIn-
alleared Oos  Jn          lemn  aguou..c.n,                                                             f  diyanrs   caoc  eoac"  defined aaapeeildifa1
uhlioatlac deotd primarily no recodin   gnoe  caon   I  I. oenidn...d
FOOD AND0 YiiTlIONf                                                                                 In be "daily"  If in,P""ole at ..oa  for.      Inaa
iuanoad~ ~ ~~~~~~~P ofcMn bc aeeil n onIannt da e.ctfa lend                                                                               h  .f               -
tea a    eeoclud= )."A Anoreat  PoIduottn of sah co-noy is booed on.1B10R 0.C0
_aIoa Saarg  proun  pl1cc onga.         191h,lit   n  17Iaa                              Tota  Labo  Ounce (thouands  - fonmel.ly sutto    oon.  nld
pan doy.  Ao.llaAl  enppllnn compris   d   1970l crduclco 1o979t dlens              natnourpine190  190  nd197Idc
onpoco.  ad uonoa  In  touk   notnapplso  aclua anmal  end  scadd e,           Pae(o.... -Omealao   oroa  poonntags at- total labor. foyto
qnacnltlaauend ~ ~   ~     " InfoTHonalg   n                                                                              DunsI   laOain   ono-Arcloebooa(-lbrrrsi faring. fooc-t-y hotign
hooaodoyd l-ivel: li-pl, 1970, end 197 data,  --i,ilpl.                            1           970an  1919bl. dean.    91       19
no   upl oI odL  porday.  netsopy  f  od  L. dafltndacaJ.                 ._               M kn-  coalyaneoopTod  I..tona. mal.;  .endtl   lhrtorts end
allunecae of hOgrm  of tota  prti d      popdayl and20 arena of  sonm-Ilei ailndg96 . 11. an-..I    .11Ib1E-;90    90ld 1979 dan.Tooa    ando       .sprtopt            . ss
ruIns proein.,b of. oh.iob10gra  shoold b.  animal protei. b; iTheos anan-                    rdstbooyo   ag-san     p  feeotir   of abs  .onaln  and. long,  o lee-orod.
arda  r   oo  hunoao  70 g-a-         a I   of ton-aLO proneland 13gr- ao                     fas en lcan yn arefro  naloa   oP-esa.gI     -               b,f..    90
abed fueaimalsI11ad pu19   ngun   a  dy096-)  1910and  977  eco.                        Icc         d  9IS 9OdOlT19
Chl  (ps -1   oall,tac   os   hcuod  - Aa-nno  dneath   per thousandin                Pspoenaeo    laeIcme(thi  oAh 1Aned kn)-C indb   ihs
ortesdata  orlnd fro  luf  aahne; 100. 17f  ad  197 dataed .                       of bo-asbotdes.b.   f.
at birth   190  190  andTT 1979 data,     hP,d,  e   0S-If.-                      412 and should                1979nenotndoiThooeidsohbleed InanrLOn.      eli.
hunat: .  J_ Oetct   htrhn   of7    -IfoulOa- Iol ..   rhItPt and rural-   a-f                  otnin.b..al.y adqse- dItpu-es; hlcnfodrqlnmneI   a
caarupl   (cl yo treae   ear- faed  .J..r or ucatinated   ,  bu fuoo dcletd-       teradtlnn    con     oaIol(S    e   uco       rsadoa
coto  ouh cc then2, toW  poonae  brI oec iraa,d;          and 1 eanicary naIls  001           iunel,Om 5relaTOlNo   oet   noe       lI   o-hr   fnnoaprtpt
pChi  oagld fI heit  npono  pnlendotc   Ine A              oha d   pna a pohdlJi                P-ersnal.I Itlico  orobnoennoy       I.. the  iol~,, 1d in nRod. from  obsy
canah..rod as4 being nahcldscosain  cotas  of tgea bup       a   I  ruol  nsc                 enmon   orltoon    "e'nObaoP..             ro  tong  .0  (ed cc 0apt   -   -rht
Llfao  hcrl  Ilerose lyacr1-oant            II 1 oou la Ifn-tuna   uron aif a octal -. ull.l     e                                                          fP     e
fbi_of poople (canal,d utbon  oTd runald booiod b  enhr-ta alapsal e
the- no icln  n  dl,epel  oaorath,- )- Aut. -thntn. ofLf ...  Icco             Y eEtota                                                asndiaAbd  ooll t.oInt a VAn-
and  Pansno     by. caOnhotsact obcsuoofra  rtne  and almL.roanama  Mi-si  and rtoortoh     Opao
Ian. l iEnlfutaW._                                                                                                                                   oar tl...it-itIL lyleq ldt  l     .epil-en  .-
to,   or Pb  lohan        OonslaIthon            d -nde -b tubnr of poanludb pys
uhase   ooll ed frm a mdical  ched   n utloosPt   "IcI--oat.$                                                                               e      ee   -      .
P':.co  ariren  rmn   Popoclntl            , dIvided- by cuohor of pruonloine                                                                                P      pit
P....o sod fmJaln  rIdntta.nunce,  .rao. =al tnocenLand aentaanothereno



- 26 -
ANU I
COMC ItDICATWI                                           Page 4 of S
Population: 26,67tQOOO (mid-19S0)
GNP Per Capita:, US$1180 aI
Aut                  Avracg  Annal Increase (%)      Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
Indicator                                          (iili.n 93*               (ct constant 1970 price)              (at current orices)
at curret prices)
1950 k/              1960-70   1970-75   1975-80      1960      1970      1975     1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domstic product c/                                   32.686                  5.3       6.1        5o8       100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                              8197                    3.5       5.2        4.0        34.1     28.6      29.3     25.2
Industry                                                 8.799                   6.2       6.1        4.4       25.7      26.6      28.3    29.2
Services                                                12,559                   5.9       7.3        6.4       40.2    44.8       42.4    45.6
Consumption                                               24,435                   5.9       6.6        5.6        79.4    69.6       81.6     74.7
Gros  Inveetmat                                             7.994                  5.1       0.6        8.5        20.5     22.0      17.8     24.4
Exports of goods end IFS                                    5.648                  3.1       5.9       10.0        15.6     14.2      15.1     17.4
Imports of goods and NrS                                    5.391                  4.3       1.1       12.7      1.5       15.8      14.5    16.5
Gross national savings                                     8.103                   5.2       5.3       10.8        19.4     18.0      16.8    24.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade
(at crrent prices)
1960    1970      1975     1980
HIRCHAITDISZ 1142
Merchandise Exports (PO)                                   4.428                   3.3       1.4       10.8      100.0    100.0      100.0   100.0
Major pri_sry                                            2,571                   2.8      -4.6       12.8       72.5    69.4        51.2    64.8
Major nufsctures                                           686                    -       23.8        6.5         -       9.0       24.5     15.5
Other                                                      871                    -        3.8        5.4         -       21.6      24.3     19.7
Merchandise Exports (CIF)                                  4.533                   3.5      -2.3        9.0      100.0    100.0      100.0   100.0
Food                                                       36                   10.0      -0.1       13.4        2.4      4.5       4.8      8.0
Petroleum                                                  750                 -21.4      70.6       43.5        2.0       -        2.0      16.5
Machinery end equipmsnt                                  1.750                   5.2      -8.5       11.0       42.7     50.6       36.4     38.6
Other                                                    1.669                   1.8       2.4        5.4       52.9    44.9       56.8      36.9
1974       1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980  b/
PRICES AND IZ1ltS o0 TIAE
GDP deflator                                                    27.6        20.8      23.6      28.3      17.1      23.9    24.5
Exchange rate          .                                        27.1        31.2      35.0      36.9      39.3      42.6    47.3
Export price index                                             155.4       159.7     214.5    303.6    260.2       262.2   294.9
Import price Index                                             210.3       217.3     233.5     254.3     202.0     220.6   252.2
Tere of trade index                                             73.9       73.5       91.9     119.4     128.8     118.8   117.0
An % of CDP
(st currant crics.)
1970         1975        1980 f/
PimtIC FINANCE d/i
Currant revene                                                                        10.6         11.1        12.1
Current expenditure                                                                    5.7          6.6         8.2
Surplun (+) or deficit (-)                                                            4.9           4.5         3.9
capital expenditur,                                                                    1.8          4.6         4.6
Foreign financing !/                                                                  3.3           2.9         3.2
1960-70     1970-75      1975-80
E  INDICATORS
GYP growth rate ()                                                                     5.10        6.30        6.00
ONP per capita growth rate (1)                                                         2.00        3.90        3.70
Energy consumption growth rate (1)                                                     5.00        4.00        4.00
ICCR JL                                                                                3.54        3.43        4.00
Marginal savings rate h/                                                               0.13        0.13        0.16
Import elasticLty                                                                      1.17        0.16        2.20
a/ World Baek Atlas VAthod.
b/ Estimted.
c/ At mrket prices:  Come_nts are expressed at factor cost aed will not ndd because of exclusion of not indirect taxes sad subsidies.
d/ Central Govsr,nt.
e/ Cross disbursements of sxtsual leoes to the entire public sector.
f/ Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
j/ Lagged one year.
h/ Incromnt to gross domstic saevgs/ticrnot to gross domestic product.
November 11, 1981



Annex 1  '
Page 5 of 5
SALAIDE OF 2A151.   LZ6L CAPITAL AND DENT
Popoletlot         26.67. OCO(id-1960)
Gn Par C l,           s  p S$1180    a/                                                                      (.diYo(   USY  at cOrront prit..)
1974        1975         1976         1977        1978         1979         1990 7b        1981          1982      '9 t            1984         1965
po    o . gd..d no-ftetor sary.-                               1000        2165         2782         340         4059         4910         5327           4932          5660        6367          7323         81'
Iortt  of *oods and aon-factor a*,rtL..                               1149         2030         2302        2730         3722         4191         5378           6361         7369         8401         9444        10415
leaoarce Nalatee                                                          -149         .J3           480          674         337          719          -49          -1429        -1709        -2034        -2123        -2222
Ibt faot~ ca t                                 ry7                                 _nt -265       180         fl~_-47                  -127         -172 31r 143           -75 } 1ii
Nat 4n   qo1rad tfatwtr.                                                 27           48           21           16            7           4           26             35           40           45            50           45
Corrtat Acc04totl latIm                                                   -302          -80          222         455           97          596         -195          -1063        -1526        -1990         -26          -24M9
fet dfraet foreign Invt_nt                                                   39          32           14           43           56         124          234            150           175          300         450           600
Had I. *ad lonsg tor  Io. (not)                                            202          308          131          192           72         703          838            713           951        120           1448         1396
to poblie ector                                                         (160)        (234)        (109)        (195)        (92)        (603)        (781)          (691)        (912)       (1168)       (1335)       (1883)
to pri ate *ator                                                         (42)         (54)         (22)         (-3)       (-20)        (100)         (57)           (22)         (39)         (76)        (11)          L
Othor capit l                                                                55        -121          195          162          391        -158          264              -            -            -            -            _-
Cailtal A-coat 3la3Lc                                                      296          219          340          397         519          669         1336            863          1126         1540        -tm           21"
Cho. La . Itrvo  (- - increase)                                               6        -139         -562         -852        -616        -1265        -1141            200          400           450        .J0            3eo
International lar"et  (offit.ta)                                           152          547         1168         1830        2482         4106         5416           5216         4816         4368         4016          3716
Reserves as   oth. of Iports                                               1.6         3.2          6.1          8.0         8.0          11.8        12.1            9.8           7.8          6.2          5.1          4.3
C1086 DI880IiS681 r/
OfftcYIa  arantt                                                          _            -                         _            _                        _                                           
Groa  diYbu-rats of IILT loon                                            235          390          262          371         319         1036         1131
Corc doa l                                                                102          39           47           27          60            36          53
Bit:rl                                                                 (100)         (37)         (44)         (21)        (53)         (28)         (16)
Other Ml3til.t-r.1                                                       (2)          (2)          (3)          (6)          (7)          (8)        (37)
llocIl tc oreon tl                                                       133          351          215          345         260         1000         1078
Official waort credits                                                  (26)         (14)         (0)          (14)        (19)         (47)        (113)
UD8                                                                     (58)        (106)         (76)         (85)        (62)        (138)        (218)
Other -Ittlat.r.l                                                        (14)        (19)         (27)         (31)         (33)         (31)        (82)
Privete                                                                 (35)        (212)        (112)        (216)       (125)        (783)        (665)
E[    BDENT (tnd of period)  /
Dabt .1t.1adilpg tnd di.bread                                           1249         2348         2453        2670         2803         3426         4295
Official                                                               1074         1716         1785         1862        1999         2151         2444
IfYD                                                                 (354)        (634)        (672)       (716)        (751)        (838)       (1035)
IY0                                                                   (20)         (22)         (22)        (22)         (22)         (22)         (21)
Other                                                                (700)       (1060)       (1019)      (1124)       (1225)       (1291)       (1390)
Prl,t                                                                 174          632          668         806          804         1275         1849
Ildt.bwraed Debt                                                         602          463          906         1040        1516         1993         2409
Totaldabt  orY- . peyeot  of ahich                                      119          249          278.         313         398          664          568
lItara.t                                                               44          114          1"          137          171          231          268
pow,to a. * % porta of goods and
*11 S-tic.                                                           11.6         11 1          9 5         8.9          9 5         12 5          9 9
Yft  ae S GNP                                                           1 7          1.9          1.9          1.6         1.8          2.4          1.7
Average iot.r..t rata on aw lo. (7.)                                     5.8          7.4          6.5          7.4          7.9        10.3         10.2
Official                                                               (5.1)        (6.1)        (5.8)        (7.3)        (7.6)        (7.8)        (-5
rlvt"te                                                                (6.9)        (6.2)        (7.5)        (7.6)       (8.6)       (12.0)       (12.3)
A'varag  eat-rty of .8 lotans (year.)                                   22.4         15.1         14.8         (6.0         14.1        12.6         13.7
Offittl                                                              (30.1)       (26.1)       (20.0)       (17.9)      (16.2)       (16.8)          (-)
Private                                                                (9.7)        (8.2)        (7.4)        (7.6)       (9.1)       (10.0)       (10.2)
1T  M    9,01 DOD/to   DOD28 4                                                       27.0         27.4         26.8        26.8         24.5         24.1
IUID d.bcront./total froe  diab.r..         to                          24.6         27.1         28.9         22.9        25.7         13 3         19 3
188  debt er ie./tot.1 debt serYice                                     34.4         28.9         13.7         14.3         8.8         13.1         25.4
ID4 DOD/total DOD                                                        1.6          1.0          0.9          0.8         0.8          0.6          0.5
IDA dsb4r.at./tottl &roas di.bwr-to                                       -
rll da      rv" c hotal debt   rlce                                        -          0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.0          0.0
/ Vlorld Neek Atlt lItheod
it Pra-liaory
c/  Pblio  nd p.bl.11l  goar.t.ad debt
Cooamber 11o 1981
Colo bi- Divl.ion



- 28
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
57 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,070.6     23.5 /I
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation          2.2                .6
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2               7.6
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0               6.3
1118    1975  Colombia                         Rural Settlement 19.5                 4.1
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              10.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   80.0                 2.0
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              16.5
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr. 64.0                14.9
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de              Communications   58.3                50.1
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   15.0                 1.0
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              39.6
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              18.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              11.6
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              22.3
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              87.3
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0              15.9
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial           Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0               9.8
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.  100.0                14.4
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports           61.0              32.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.0              41.3
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              12.6
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                     Water Supply       30.0              27.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million,



29
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30,1981) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725    1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power              72.0             72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal             Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria         Agriculture Cr.   20.0               18.6
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel       80.0             18.3
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                 87.0             87.0
de Bogota
1825 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de             Communications    44.0               44.0
Medellin
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    32.0               29.6
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0              150.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                125.0            125.0
1953 /2 1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0             85.0
1966 1 1981  Colombia                          Rural Roads         33.0             33.0
1996 /2 1981  Instituto Colombiano de          IrrigLtion          37.0             37.0
Ridrologia
1999 /2 1981  Corporacion Electrica de la    Power                 36.0             36.0
Costa Atlantica
2008 /2 1981  Empresa de Energia                Power             359.0            359.0
Electrica de Bogota
TOTAL                                           3,254.9      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          561.5       2.3
Total now outstanding                           2,693.4      21.2
Amount sold                         51.0
Of which has been repaid            45.1            5.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,687.5      21.2
Total undisbursed                                                 1,573.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Not yet signed.



-30                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September  30, 1981)
Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                    Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board         .50       -       .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products       1.99    .08       2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans          .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Rome furniture       .08    .09        .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment         .50      -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                       financing           -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development           -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles           1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                           financing           -    .81         .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging         -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing        1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock          1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles           5.00   2.60       7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism               -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(ROTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development           -    .45        .45
Norte                            financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development           -    .43        .43
Valle                            financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism             .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism             .80    .25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing               -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement             1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement              3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                       Mining              6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities         13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material         2.43    .30       2.73
1980       Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing            9.00    .19       9.19
1981       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.        Chemicals and
Petrochemicals 12.15   3.42       15.57
Total Gross Commitments                            61.46  17.26      78.72
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             46.65   8.91      55.56
Total commitments now held by IFC                  14.81   8.35      23.16
Total undisbursed                                   8.54    .42       8.96



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
As of September 30, 1981 1/
1.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$2.2 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current  - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977 and as of September 30, 1981, US$0.6 million remained undis-
bursed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas was only partially
carried out and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs
improvement. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe
flooding in the project area, a study is being carried out to reassess the
flood protection and drainage requirements of the area. The project comple-
tion mission will take place in March 1982, once the report by the hydrologic
consultants has been completed.
2.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution was suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition of
sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 after the Bank agreed
to redimension of the project to give greater emphasis to primary education,
but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government proposed to the
Bank to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the
loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as modified in
1977. Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in
planning, construction, educational programming and personnel training, and
project execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay
and higher costs, the scope of the project has been reduced. The closing date
of the loan will be extended by an additional three months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
3.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
Project implementation slower during the first semester of 1981
because of managerial problems and the ground water component and subprojects
in Bananquilla, Cartagena and Villavicencio are now expected to be completed
by the end of 1982. Despite the delays, works on the other four subprojects
are expected to be completed before December 31, 1981. INSFOPAL's management
has been urged to strengthen project supervision and to accelerate project
execution and disbursements. As of September 30, 1981, US$20.7 million or
77% of the loan has been disbursed.
4.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
Project implementation is behind schedule and the closing date will
need to be extended by one year to December 31, 1982 in order to complete
project targets. A recurring problem, which imposes serious operational
constraints, is the slow transfer of counterpart funds to the project. As
of September 30, 1981, US$4.1 million or 21% of the loan remained undisbursed.
To facilitate the completion of the project, the closing date of the loan will
be extended for one year.
5.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1983
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies are taking corrective measures. The
project's social component, schools, domestic water supply and health, is
progressing satisfactorily. As of September 30, 1981, US$10.2 million or
about 49% of the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
6.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of September 30, 1981, about 98% of the loan had
been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fifth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, and
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of September 30, 1981, US$35.5 million, or 68% of the loan had been disbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The US$25 million assigned to medium and large farmers has been fully
committed and disburged. However, only 39% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been committed, and no satisfactory arrangement has yet been
found to speed up commitments. Concern over possible diversion and substitu-
tion of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially its end-use
supervision. About 85% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries have been
committed for 160 subprojects. As of September 30, 1981, US$49.1 million, or
77% of the loan had been disbursed.
9.        Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project had been delayed as a result of several key personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Satisfactory progress is
being made in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies.
As of September 30, 1981, US$50.1 million, or 86% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.



-34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    September 30,1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of September 30, 1981, 93% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of September 30,
1981, about US$50.4 million had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress has been achieved in the major components of health,
nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a year
behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--home
food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
13.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements were resumed on September 4, 1981 once EMCALI has taken
corrective measures. As of September 30, 1981, US$11.6 million or 84% of the
loan remained undisbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14.       Ln. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new General
Manager of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project. For some time,
the Bank has been recommending a review of the project scope to ensure its
completion on time and recently SIP has presented a proposal which, while not
changing the basic concept of the project, involves design modifications in
most components. This proposal is currently being reviewed by the Bank.
15.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, .1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of September 30, 1981, US$38.7 million or
31% of the loan had been disbursed.
16.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award for
substations (KfW was originally to finance this component). The Government is
obtaining other sources of finance. The line is to be energized temporarily
at 220 kV in 1982, pending full completion of the works.
17.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site require that substantial soil investigations
be carried out before site preparation is initiated.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
18.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and loan funds are virtually
fully committed. As of September 30, 1981, 87% of the loan, or about US$85.6
million, had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and instrumentation has been
installed in order to estimate amount of camber necessary to compensate for
future settlement. As of September 30, 1981, about 54% of the loan had been
disbursed.
20.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well advanced, although with a 3-6 month delay.
Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$62 million) are expected as a
result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. As of September 30, 1981,
49% of the loan had been disbursed.
21.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
The project is about 18 months behind schedule, with cost overruns,
which are mainly due to inflation, of about 39%. As of September 30, 1981,
US$12.6 million, or 97% of loan funds remained undisbursed.
22.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Significant progress has been made on the Bogota River sewage treatment
and rectification study, the construction of water and sewerage systems in low-
income barrios, the purchase of meters and of maintenance equipment. Implementa-
tion of major civil works, however, has been slow. Loan disbursements are only



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
8% of appraisal projections and project completion is now scheduled for
December 31, 1983, one year later than the scheduled appraisal completion date.
EAAB is presently taking adequate measures to implement all project components
and further delays are not anticipated.
23.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: June 19, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are proceeding well, with good performance by the Borrower.
24.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 21 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation. INSFOPAL has agreed on a master contract amendment
for subsidiary loan agreements which, when executed, will allow accelerated
construction and loan disbursements. The general performance of the Borrower
(INSFOPAL) is not yet fully satisfactory. Corrective measures will need to be
taken and a supervision mission is scheduled to review the problem. As of
September 30, 1981, the loan remained undisbursed.
25.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Disbursements are lagging, even taking into account the one year delay
in effectiveness, mostly because of slow on-lending commitments.  The revolving
fund for credit is working well, but overall financial management of INCORA
needs strengthening. As of September 30, 1981, 9% of the loan had been disbursed.
26.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
The project is expected to be completed by April 1982. Cost overruns
will require a revision of the financing plan and, possibly, additional
commitments from the sponsors.
27.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
Effective Date: September 25, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on September 25, 1981 and project imple-
mentation is underway.



-38                             ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
28.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: October 30, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 30, 1981 and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
29.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981, and project implementa-
tion is underway.
30.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984.
)             This loan became effective on July 9, 1981 and is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of September 30, 1981 US$8.9 million had been committed to
sub-projects.
31.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million,
December 19, 1980.
Affective Date: June 29, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
32.       Ln. No. 1953-CO Playas Hydro Power; US$85 million, November 6, 1981.
This loan -is not yet effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1966-CO Rural Roads; US$33 million, September 24, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1996-CO Irrigation Rehabilitationl US$37 million.
This loan was approved on May 19, 1981 but is not yet signed.
35.       Ln. No. 1999-CO Village Electrification; US$36 million.
This loan was approved on May 21, 1981 but is not yet signed.
36.       Ln. No. 2008-CO Guavio Power; US$359 million.
This loan was approved on May 28, 1981 but is not yet signed.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
COLOMBIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:                14 months
(b) Agency which prepared project:                MOPT
(c) First presentation to Bank:                   April 1978
(d) First mission to review project:              May 1980
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:               July 1981
(f) Completion of negotiations:                   February 1982
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                September 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Close Bank supervision will be required to ensure that the Program is
implemented and that sectoral objectives are monitored and implemented.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) Maintenance equipment to be procured in accordance with the
Equipment Management System (paragraphs 46 and 54);
(b) Rehabilitated roads to be maintained by contractors (paragraphs
46 and 54);
(c) Adopt and implement the Pavement and Equipment Management
Systems in all Districts by January 1, 1983 (paragraph 46);
(d) FVN to maintain separate accounts for the project
(paragraph 62);
(e) If it becomes necessary to reduce the Program, new construction
works will be cut first (paragraph 55);
(f) The National Transport Plan will be updated in cooperation with
relevant public agencies (e.g., CNR, COLPUERTOS' etc.) by
December 31, 1983 (paragraph 41);
(g) Subprojects to be selected and evaluated in line with accepted
criteria (paragraph 53);
(h) A training program for skilled labor and managers of the local
construction industry to be completed by August 1983
(paragraph 45);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(i) Establish, review and implement a program to decentralize main-
tenance and construction activities by transferring them to
local and regional authorities by June 30, 1983 (paragraph 43);
(j) Establish details of research in road construction technology
and highway administration by December 31, 1982 (paragraph 57);
(k) Review the Highway Development Program with the Bank each
September and March (paragraph 60);
(1) MOPT to adjust road users charges as required, to produce
sufficient funds to cover the cost of road infrastructure by
each category of user (paragraphs 38 and 42); and
(m) Vehicle weighing stations would be installed and in operation by
December 31, 1983 (paragraph 36).



i B RD 1253 R-
41
U,
K
iiAlOg/                                                                                   g,   0Y
2
a
O
292
18t
'g
R
CL,
UJ
N
<
t f
ZFI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cr_
42
.9
tE          A, L
LU
rL



