Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/18/2009 
Report No.:  AC4299
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Africa 
Project ID:  P116318 
Project Name:  SVP-Additional Grant Financing for the Water Resources Planning and 
Management Project - Phase II 
Task Team Leader:  John Bryant Collier 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 23, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: March 20, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTWR 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Theme:  Water resource management (P);Other economic management (P) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund 
11.20
11.20 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed financing would support the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) to undertake Phase 
II activities that fulfill objectives outlined in the original Project Appraisal Document 
(Report No. 31989, April 2005). The development objective of the NBI SVP Water 
Resources Planning and Management (WRPM) project is to enhance analytical capacity 
from a basin-wide perspective to support the development, management, and protection 
of Nile Basin water resources in an equitable, optimal, integrated, and sustainable 
manner. Phase II will emphasize the development of a basin-wide Decision Support 
System (DSS) for water planning and management.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Phase II activities will enable realization of project objectives across the three 
components still active from phase I:  (a) developing a Nile Basin Decision Support 
System for water resources planning and management, (b) improving project planning 
and management capacities through trainings, and (c) enhancing regional coordination to 
foster the requisite institutional setup for sustainable development.  The additional 
financing will enable the project to implement activities outlined as original project 
Page  2
objectives, most namely development of a basin-wide Nile Basin Decision Support 
System.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The proposed project will have its headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in existing 
buildings of the Ministry of Water.  The Project will be implemented in nine Nile riparian 
countries: Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, 
Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr John Bryant Collier (AFTWR) 
Ms Roxanne Hakim (AFTCS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
There are no anticipated safeguard issues associated with the project.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no safeguards issues associated with the project. The project enhances the 
capacity of water professionals in the Nile Basin by supporting the development of best 
practice guidelines in water policy and project management and planning, and the 
development of a Nile Basin DSS.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
Page  3
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As an NBI Project, the NBI’s “Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social 
Safeguards” that was prepared and disclosed for the NBI Institutional Strengthening 
Project (NBI-ISP) in 2008 also applies to WRPM Phase II.  It should also be noted that as 
the NBI’s safeguards strategy is strengthened through the NBI-ISP,any follow-on policies 
will also apply to this and other active NBI projects.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
There are no safeguards issues related to this project. Nevertheless, the NBI is committed 
to reaching out to stakeholders across the Basin. The preparation of the Shared Vision 
Program, (the Water Resources Planning and Management Project is one of eight projects 
comprising the SVP) has so far exhibited an exemplary multi-country and multi-sectoral 
participatory process led by the Nile-COM and the Nile-TAC and executed by the NBI 
Secretariat with involvement of more than 70 national experts from nine riparian 
countries.  
 
During the pre-appraisal and implementation planning phase of the project, in-country 
consultations were held with a range of stakeholders, including representatives from 
water-related ministries (e.g., power, agriculture, planning, environment, etc); 
meteorology, mapping and GIS agencies; academic and training institutions; private 
sector representative; and donor partners.  The success of WRPM Phase II will be based, 
in part, on the continuation and strengthening of this consultative process.  As such, key 
stakeholders will be engaged directly through active consultation as well as national and 
regional seminars and workshops. Stakeholders will also be able to periodically monitor 
progress and provide feedback via the project website.  
 
Key stakeholders will include users, planners, policymakers, and civil society.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Page  4
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr John Bryant Collier 
03/17/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr John Bryant Collier 
03/17/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ashok K. Subramanian 
03/17/2009 
Comments:   
