Page  1
1
Initial Project Information Document (PID) 
 
Report No: 
AB4625 
Project Name 
AFRICA 
–
Nile Basin Initiative Water Resources Management 
and Planning Project 
Region 
Africa Region (AFR), Middle East North Africa Region (MNA) 
Sector 
General Water, Sanitation and Flood Protection 
Theme 
Water Resource Management 
Project ID 
 P116318 
Borrower(s) 
Nile Basin Countries
1
Implementing Agency(ies) 
Nile Secretariat 
P.O. Box 192 
Entebbe, Uganda 
 
Contact Person: Ms. Henriette Ndombe, Executive Director 
Tel: 256 41 32 13 29 
Fax: 256 41 32 09 71 
Email: 
nbisec@nilesec.org
Environment Category 
C
Date PID Prepared 
January 22, 2009 
Auth Appr/Negs Date 
 
Bank Approval Date 
 
1. Country and Sector Background 
Cooperative management of the Nile River Basin is one of the greatest challenges of the global 
international waters agenda. The Nile has enormous potential to foster regional social and economic 
development through advances in food production, transportation, power production, industrial 
development, environmental conservation and other related activities. To realize this potential, the 
riparians have come to recognize that they must take concrete steps to address current challenges and that 
cooperative, sustainable development holds the greatest prospect of delivering mutual benefits to the 
region.  
 
A
Shared Vision. 
In an historic effort, the countries of the Nile have come together within the Nile Basin 
Initiative to realize a shared vision “to achieve sustainable socio-economic development through the 
equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water resources.” Recognizing the 
tremendous benefits that can be reaped from cooperation, yet fully aware of the challenges ahead, the Nile 
countries have embarked on a remarkable journey to translate their shared vision into concrete activities 
and projects that will build confidence and capacity across the Basin (the Shared Vision Program), as well 
as initiate concrete investments and action on the ground at local levels (Subsidiary Action Programs). 
 
The Shared Vision Program (SVP) 
includes 7 thematic projects as listed below. An eighth project, SVP 
Coordination, will strengthen the capacity of the NBI to execute basinwide programs and ensure the 
effective oversight and coordination of the Program.  
 
1. 
Nile Transboundary Environmental Action 
2. 
Nile Basin Regional Power Trade 
1
The Nile Basin Initiative member countries are: Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, 
Tanzania, and Uganda.  Eritrea participates as an observer and is expected to join the NBI during the course of the SVP. 
Page  2
2
3. 
Efficient Water Use for Agricultural Production 
4. 
Water Resources Planning and Management 
5. 
Confidence-Building and Stakeholder Involvement (Communications) 
6. Applied 
Training 
7. 
Socio-Economic Development and Benefit-Sharing. 
 
Investments at Sub-basin Levels. 
At the same time, groups of countries - one in the Eastern Nile and the 
other in the Nile Equatorial Lakes region - have identified joint investment opportunities. These 
Subsidiary Action Programs (SAPs) will consist of investment projects that confer mutual benefits at the 
sub-basin level, each involving two or more countries. Identified areas of cooperation include irrigation 
and water use in agriculture, hydropower development and power trade, watershed management, flood 
and drought management and sustainable management of lakes and wetlands. 
 
SVP 
–
Building Regional Cooperation Across Sectors and Themes. 
As a whole, the Shared Vision 
Program aims to create an enabling environment for cooperative management of the Nile Basin, and for 
development and investment at the Basin and sub-basin levels. Though each project is different in focus 
and scope, all contribute to building a strong foundation for regional cooperation by supporting basin-
wide engagement and dialogue, developing common strategic and analytical frameworks, building 
practical tools and demonstrations, and strengthening human and institutional capacity. Together, they 
pave the way for the realization of the Vision through investments on the ground within the Subsidiary 
Action Programs.  
 
The Main Regional Sector Issues. 
The country assessments that were carried out as a part of the 
preparation of the ATP identified three clear gaps in terms of IWRM capacity in the basin. 
 
Lack of capacity to manage water in an integrated manner.
 Most of the Basin countries are burdened by 
weak human and institutional capacity to manage water resources in an integrated manner. This situation 
applies not only to the management of international waters, as referred to earlier, but also to the 
management of national waters. That is, water management within each country is still fragmented 
between sectors, and there is little integration among various sectors of water use, between water quantity 
and quality, and between surface and groundwater. 
 
Uneven distribution of capacity within the basin
.
A
central issue is that the water sector in the Basin is 
characterized by widely diverse institutional capacities in the countries. The availability of water 
professionals, for instance, varies from less than 100 in one country to over 1,000 in another. Senior 
managers, trainers, and researchers are even fewer. Moreover, six of the ten riparians have undergone 
significant civil strife, resulting in a vast backlog of water-related investments, inadequate infrastructure 
management, and a need for institutional and human resource development. There is a great need for 
some of the countries in the Basin to develop a strong cadre of trained professionals, while other countries 
already have such a group. 
 
Little interaction among water professionals in the basin
.
By its very nature, management of 
transboundary waters is a complex matter. In the case of the Nile, collective or joint development of the 
Nile waters is made even more difficult by the fact that there is limited trade and exchange among the 
riparian countries. Political, economic, social, and cultural differences among the countries pose a major 
challenge to such exchange. There are at best just a couple of efforts to bring together water professionals 
in the basin on a periodic basis. The absence of opportunities for exchange of experience among the 
Basin’s water professionals in particular, and among people at large, has been a constraint to building a 
Nile water fraternity that is aware of common concerns and is engaged in professional interaction and 
joint problem-solving. 
Page  3
3
2. Objectives 
The Nile Basin Initiative. 
The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) a partnership initiated and led by the riparian 
states of the Nile River through the Council of Ministers of Water Affairs of the Nile Basin states (Nile 
Council of Ministers, or Nile-COM). The vision of the NBI 
is to achieve sustainable socio-economic 
development through the equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water 
resources.
 
Program development objective
.
The long-term goal of the Shared Vision Program is to create the 
enabling environment for the Nile riparians to rea
lize their vision to “achieve sustainable socioeconomic 
development through the equitable utilization of, and benefit from, the common Nile Basin water 
resources.” The specific development objective of the SVP is to build trust, capacity, and an enabling 
environment for investment in the Nile Basin countries. This objective will be achieved through the 
implementation of the projects in the SVP portfolio and the successful coordination and management of 
the program throughout the basin.  
 
Development objective.
 The development objective of the Water Resources project is to enhance 
analytical capacity for a basinwide perspective to support the development, management, and protection 
of Nile Basin water resources in an equitable, optimal, integrated, and sustainable manner. Important 
building blocks in establishing such capacity include (1) the process of developing effective national 
water policies and implementation strategies, (2) project planning and management skills, and (3) 
communication and decisionmaking tools. 
 
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement 
The external support provided to the NBI is critical to the success of the SVP as well as the subsidiary 
action programs. The World Bank, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and other donor 
partners have global experience in facilitating dialogue and knowledge sharing on international river 
basins and transboundary waters. They can provide a wide range of practical experience from a series of 
jointly implemented regional GEF programs (such as for the Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Danube River Basin, 
Mediterranean Sea, Mekong River Basin, Lake Victoria, and Red Sea). Without the combined resources 
of the World Bank, UNDP, and other donor partners, implementation of the SVP
 
would proceed at a 
slower pace and would not fully benefit from the experience of other regional programs worldwide. The 
success of river basin development programs in which the Bank and its partners have been involved lends 
additional credibility to projects that are endorsed by this group of donors. Therefore, the Bank, together 
with its partners, can mobilize broad multilateral and bilateral donor support for regional programs of this 
kind. 
 
In addition, the World Bank has well established procedures for supervision, quality assurance, and 
fiduciary management, and a successful record of managing multidonor trust funds. The Bank’s technical 
supervision role, carried out in collaboration with other donor partners, can contribute to effective 
program implementation. The confidence of other donors in the Bank’s capacity as trust fund 
administrator strengthens the financial commitment from multiple donors and thus contributes to the 
financial viability of the Shared Vision Program. 
 
Additional Financing. 
The financing of WRPM was phased in two parts in the original PAD because of 
the importance having the project operating in tandem with the other SVP Projects even though the full 
funding required for the DSS was not then available.  As anticipated, the needed funds are now available 
in the NBTF; therefore, the additional financing will allow completion of the DSS and should ensure 
achievement of the objectives outlined in the original PAD. The development objectives of the WRPM 
Project are: 
to enhance analytical capacity from a basin-wide perspective to support the 
development, management, and protection of Nile Basin water resources in an equitable, 
Page  4
4
optimal, integrated, and sustainable manner. Important building blocks in establishing 
such capacity include (1) the process of developing effective national water policies and 
implementation strategies, (2) project planning and management skills, and (3) 
communication and decision-making tools. Project activities were phased to align with 
available funding and to ensure that components are needs driven.  
 
The first phase NBTF grant has accomplished its expected outputs and will be closing as 
scheduled on April 30, 2009. Additional funding has now been provided by the NBTF for 
full project implementation through a new Phase II grant with a closing date of December 
31, 2012. Originally, it was envisaged that once Phase II financing was secured the WRPM 
grant would be amended and the closing date extended to December 31, 2012; however, on 
advice from LEGAF, the task team has decided to establish a new grant for Phase II.  
Rather than extend the Phase I grant, it will close on April 30, 2009 and the balance of 
approximately US$ 5.5 million will be transferred to the Phase II grant via an amendment 
expected in September 2009. This is being done in order to simplify budgeting, 
disbursement, and supervision for the remainder of the project by only having one grant 
open.  WRPM is on track for full delivery of expected outputs and project development 
objectives.  The transfer of balance from the Phase I to the Phase II grant is purely an 
administrative move and is not a reflection of less than satisfactory project performance.
 
4. Description 
The project has three main components and a fourth component for project coordination and facilitation: 
1. 
Water Policy Good Practice Guides and Support 
2. 
Project Planning and Management Good Practice Guides and Support 
3. 
Nile Basin Decision Support System 
4. 
Regional Coordination and Facilitation 
The project will close on December 31, 2012.  Component 1 has been absorbed by the NBI Institutional 
Strengthening Project as of October 2008 and is no longer active under the WRPM project.   
Project phasing.
 
Project activities will phased to align with available funding and to ensure that 
components are needs driven.  An initial grant of US$15.22 will be financed by the NBTF through a grant 
agreement between the NBI and the Bank.  An additional US$0.55 million has been allocated from NBTF 
resources to the SVP Coordination project as the Water Resources pro rata share for program 
coordination and advance recruitment of staff.  
The first phase of the NBTF grant ran from 2004 to April 2009. Additional funding was approved for 
Phase II in the amount of US$ 11.2 million from the NBTF was approved at the NBTF-C meeting in 
October 2008, and the new grant is expected to become effective around March 2009.  
Component 1
—Water Policy Good Practice Guides and Support. 
The Water Policy Component 
closed, as planned, on December 31, 2009.  The output of this component is to strengthen capacity to 
formulate and implement effective national policies and strategies for IWRM in Nile Basin countries. 
This will be a country- and needs-driven component aimed at enabling all basin countries to operate on an 
equal footing. This component will initiate a regional dialogue on good-practice elements of the process 
for formulating and implementing water policy. This dialogue will enable Nile Basin countries to reach a 
common understanding of the interaction between national policies, regional needs, and cooperative 
development, thus providing a basis for enhancing national transboundary policies and strategies in the 
context of the Nile Basin. The water policy component has the following three subcomponents: 
Page  5
5
·
Subcomponent 1.1
—Enhancing regional coordination and cooperation.
 This subcomponent 
includes activities required for the establishment and ongoing operations of the project 
component, including regional coordination, support of a basinwide policy task force, and 
assessing policy formulation and implementation needs.
 
·
Subcomponent 1.2—Guidelines and good practice for policy formulation and implementation.
 A
key activity will be the compilation of good-practice policy guidelines and a compendium of case 
studies covering the processes of policy formulation and implementation through regional 
dialogue, exchange of experience, and consultant support. Information will be disseminated 
through demand-driven workshops, electronic knowledge base, and other networking activities, 
 
·
Subcomponent 1.3—Policy support facility.
 To facilitate learning by doing, advisory support will 
be provided through the policy support facility to assist riparian governments in addressing 
national policy formulation and implementation issues. Support from the policy support facility 
will be based on agreed criteria and an approved application process, demonstrated national need, 
and commitment to water policy formulation and implementation  
Component 2
—Project Planning and Management Good Practice Guides and Support. 
The output 
of this component is enhanced capacity in Nile Basin countries for planning and managing multicountry 
projects, thus contributing to improved IWRM in the region. These skills will become particularly 
important as NBI cooperation grows and cooperative investment projects are developed through the 
subsidiary action programs.  
Conceptualization of the project planning and management component was initiated in September 1999 
and the concept endorsed in March 2001 as part of a participatory preparation process with technical 
experts from each Nile country. During the ensuing years, as detailed implementation arrangements for 
the SVP have been formulated, projects of the SVP and subsidiary action programs have continued to 
evolve. During Pre-appraisal for the Water Resource project, it was decided to phase the implementation 
of component 2.  During an initial inception phase,
2
the component will be reviewed and refined based on 
the ongoing progress in NBI programs.  Identified activities will be implemented through the Water 
Resources project or other ongoing SVP projects and/or subsidiary action program activities, as 
appropriate. Component 2 includes the following subcomponents: 
·
Subcomponent 2.1
—Needs assessment and component review. 
A
participatory review will be 
conducted during an inception phase to evaluate potential overlapping and collaboration with 
other SVP projects (such as Applied Training) and subsidiary action program preparation 
activities. The assessment will be undertaken during the second year of the project to ensure that 
all SVP project management units are fully operational and project activities are well underway.  
·
Subcomponents 2.2–2.6
.
The needs assessment conducted in subcomponent 2.1 will determine 
the subcomponents to be conducted during implementation phase of the component.  Table 1 
provides an overview subcomponents, as originally conceived, to capture the initial thinking 
about this subcomponent.  These are likely to be refined based on the evolving needs of the NBI 
as reflected in the needs assessment. 
Component 3
—Nile Basin Decision Support System (DSS)
.
The output of this component is that an 
operational Nile Basin DSS supported by trained staff. The Nile Basin DSS will provide a common, 
basinwide platform for communication, information management, and analysis of Nile Basin water 
resources. Coupled with human resources development and institutional strengthening, the Nile Basin 
DSS will provide a framework for sharing knowledge, understanding river system behavior, evaluating 
2
The World Bank Institute, which is experienced in the design and implementation of capacity building activities such as envisioned 
in this component, could assist with the inception phase needs assessment and component review. 
Page  6
6
alternative development and management schemes, and supporting informed decision making from a 
regional perspective, thus contributing to sustainable water resources planning and management in the 
basin.  
The development and implementation of a comprehensive DSS to serve regional, sub-regional, and 
national needs, with the full development of associated human and institutional capacity, is a long-term 
process. This first basinwide DSS development effort, therefore, seeks to establish the institutional, 
technical, and capacity-building framework for the Nile Basin DSS, build core tools, and establish a 
foundation of trained developers and users. These initial tools will focus on water resources and 
enhancing capacity for basinwide communication, information exchange, and analysis; while recognizing 
that the DSS must also serve national needs to ensure sustainability and commitment. The DSS 
component includes four subcomponents: 
·
Subcomponent 3.1
—Institutional and human capacity strengthening.
 This subcomponent will 
establish a regional DSS center at the project management unit (PMU) and train core riparian 
staff in integrated water resources management and DSS concepts. The regional DSS center will 
be the custodian of the basinwide (and agreed) DSS and keep it updated and fully documented. A 
DSS core team, including regional staff at the PMU and national DSS staff from each country, 
will be intimately involved in the design and development of the system to ensure that it is 
anchored in the basin and can be sustained. A national DSS unit, along with a network of 
cooperating partners in water-related sectors, will be established in each country to build capacity 
and broad-based support for the DSS. Comprehensive short-term on-the-job training and long-
term development programs will be implemented throughout the project at regional and national 
levels to ensure the technical sustainability of the DSS.  
·
Subcomponent 3.2—DSS development and application.
 This includes the design, development, 
and application of the DSS. The development approach is highly participatory to ensure 
ownership, transparency, confidence, and sustainability, and that DSS development is in response 
to perceived needs. This subcomponent focuses on three major DSS elements: 
A
basinwide networking and information management system
 
to support the SVP, as 
well as the subsidiary action programs as appropriate. The development of the information 
management system will be fast-tracked so that a useful tool is available for NBI activities 
and projects as soon as possible.  
A
regional river basin planning model to assist in the evaluation of alternative 
development paths and the identification of joint investment projects at subregional and 
regional levels. 
Core national capabilities,
 
including the information management system and a toolkit of 
water resources analytical tools for national use.  
·
Subcomponent 3.3—Data guidelines and information exchange.
 This subcomponent focuses on 
the development of common guidelines for collecting, processing, analyzing, and exchanging 
data and information. Based on participatory basinwide working group(s), the subcomponent will 
address issues such as levels of data exchange; common and transparent standards for the 
reliability and accuracy of DSS data; common data formats and other procedures that facilitate 
data exchange, and quality assurance procedures. Strong national ownership and control are 
essential. Regional and subregional exchange will be limited initially, but will evolve in response 
to needs. 
·
Subcomponent 3.4—DSS consolidation.
 In this subcomponent training continues, the operational 
functioning of the DSS is further tested and consolidated, the long-term training plan is 
Page  7
7
implemented, DSS-related activities are further embedded in the institutional framework, and 
long-term financial sustainability issues are addressed. While this subcomponent will be initiated 
during phase 1, full implementation will require phase 2 funding. 
Component 4
—Regional Coordination and Facilitation. 
This component includes activities related to 
the project management arrangements that facilitate regional cooperation and project implementation, 
including monitoring and evaluation and the operation of the Project Management Unit in Addis Ababa. 
Component 4 includes the following two subcomponents: 
·
Subcomponent 4.1
—
Regional coordination and implementation
.
This subcomponent focuses on 
the institutional set-up necessary to establish the overall management arrangements for the 
project, ensure coordination and integration within the overall NBI and SVP framework, and 
maintain and operate the project management unit in Addis Ababa. The subcomponent includes 
the establishment and operation of the project steering committee
3
,
as well as facilitation of the 
formation of project related task forces and working groups.  
·
Subcomponent 4.2—
 
Monitoring and evaluation. 
Monitoring and evaluation will be used as an 
adaptive learning tool for the project and will align with the overall SVP monitoring and 
evaluation framework developed by the SVP Coordination. At the start of the Water Resources 
project, the project manager, in collaboration with lead specialists and consultant support as 
needed, will develop a detailed monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan, including detailed 
performance indicators. This plan will be based on existing project documents and in alignment 
with the logical framework for the project. Lead specialists will be responsible for ensuring 
component level monitoring.
 
5. Financing 
The Shared Vision Program is a US$ 131 million grant-funded program. Approximately 80 percent of 
total program costs have been pledge by bi-lateral donors and multi-lateral institutions. The 
administration of funds for SVP projects has been streamlined through the establishment of the NBTF,
4
which ensures a unified and coherent approach to fund management. Most donors will use the NBTF to 
contribute to the Shared Vision Program.  
The Water Resources project has three funding sources: (1) the NBTF; (2) GEF/WB resources provided 
by the SVP Nile Basin Transboundary Environmental Action project; and (3) parallel support provided by 
GTZ. The NBI and GTZ have agreed on a support and cooperation framework for the German 
contribution that aligns with general SVP implementation arrangements, thus ensuring effective 
integration of this support into the project. GEF/WB funds will be administered in accordance with Bank 
procedures; and, in accordance with SVP procedures, will be executed by the NBI through the NBI 
Secretariat.  
The NBTF grant for the WRPM project was originally budgeted for US$23.81 million. During project 
appraisal it appeared that resources within the NBTF were limited; this funding shortfall triggered a 
phased approach to NBTF grant funding. The original NBTF grant agreement for Phase I was signed for 
US$12.81 million and will be closing on April 30, 2009, with the remaining balance then being 
transferred to the Phase II grant. The NBTF Committee, in its April 2008 meeting, approved allocation of 
funds for Phase II of the WRPM project, which was set at US$11.2 million after final budgeting by the 
project. The additional financing will allow the project to complete the objectives as outlined in the 
3
Steering committee members will be appointed prior to project effectiveness.  
4
The Nile Basin Trust Fund was established by the World Bank at the request of the Nile Council of Ministers as the preferred 
funding mechanism for NBI programs (Extraordinary Meeting, Khartoum, March 2001). The Bank will initially serve as the 
administrator of the trust fund but as program implementation progress and a permanent institutional framework is established, it is 
intended that the NBTF be transferred to an NBI institution.  
Page  8
8
original PAD. Consistent with Bank objectives, WRPM place strategic emphasis on ensuring a strong 
knowledge base for basin-level water resources management so that investment for development is 
effectively utilized for sustainable development and international cooperation.  
 
6. Implementation 
Institutional arrangements, which have evolved through intensive dialogue within the NBI as well as 
between the NBI and development partners, are based on the generic SVP implementation arrangements 
as set forth in the SVP Master Project Appraisal Document.
5
They also draw on experience and best 
practice from other regional programs. However, the nature of the NBI requires innovative strategies to 
ensure early action on the ground, maintain trust and commitment, and foster broad ownership by the 
riparian states.  
 
General implementation
.
The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) Water Resources Planning and Management 
(WRPM) Project is implemented by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in Addis Ababa in conjunction 
with national offices in each riparian country.  
 
The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI). 
The NBI, through its executive arm, the NBI Secretariat, is 
the executing agency for the project. The NBI therefore manages overall fund flow and 
disbursements as well as information sharing and knowledge management, coordination, 
integration, and monitoring and evaluation. As the executing agency for the project, the 
NBI defines generic procedures for issues such as reporting, monitoring and evaluation, 
knowledge management, and the NBI website. The NBI is required to retain the services of 
a
project services agency for day-to-day implementation of project operations throughout 
the life of the Project
6
.
Currently, the NBI has an agreement with the United Nations 
Office for Project Services (UNOPS) for the provision of project services to WRPM.  NBI 
Institutional Strengthening Project (NBI-ISP) supports implementation and coordination of 
NBI programs and projects. 
 
Project Management Unit (PMU). 
In accordance with the decentralized approach adopted for 
the Shared Vision Program (SVP),
 
the PMU for the WRPM project was established in Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia. The PMU operates at the basinwide level, and, in support of the NBI, is 
responsible for managing and implementing the WRPM project in all participating 
countries. In addition, the PMU provides some support to the national activities of other 
SVP projects in Ethiopia for procurement, financial management, and logistics.
 
Senior staff 
of the WRPM PMU include: 
a
regional project manager, finance
 
and procurement officer, Decision 
Support System (DSS) lead specialist, a
nd a 
DSS technical advisor
.
Key PMU technical staff who 
support DSS
 
development and implementation include a 
system integrator/software development 
specialist 
and
 
an 
IT/GIS/database specialist
.
United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS). 
To facilitate smooth operations, maintain 
and enhance dialogue between the Nile riparians, and further the 
SVP’s developmental 
objectives, the NBI has utilized services of UNOPS. The NBI, through the Management 
Service Agreement (MSA), requested UNOPS to support the efficient and effective 
5
Nile Basin Initiative: Shared Vision Program, Project Appraisal Document, World Bank Report No. 26222, April 21, 2003. 
6
Over the course of WRPM Implementation, the NBI may request the grant agreement be amended to do away with 
the requirement for a Project Services Agency.  At such a time, the Bank will conduct comprehensive financial 
management and procurement reviews to determine if the NBI has developed the needed capacity and obtained the 
necessary legal status to fully deliver national and regional project activities.  
Page  9
9
execution of the WRPM project, which includes: hiring PMU staff and consultants, 
procurement of goods and services, financial management, disbursement, reporting and 
general administration. This arrangement is expected to continue for the life of the WRPM 
project, although a new MSA will be required for the period of January 1, 2010, to 
December 31, 2012, after the current MSA closes at the end of CY 2009, The NBI and 
UNOPS have signed a letter of intent to enter into this new MSA.  
 
Project Steering Committee (PSC). 
A
project steering committee provides programmatic and 
strategic guidance, direction, and oversight to the project. The steering committee ensures 
that project objectives are achieved, in the framework of the NBI and its Shared Vision, and 
that the project remains within budget and on schedule. Steering committee members are 
nominated by each participating Nile Basin country and have senior expertise in water 
resources planning and management in the country. The steering committee also includes a 
NBI Technical Advisory Committee member from the PMU host country, Ethiopia, to 
ensure coordination with the NBI, as well as a representative of the NBI Secretariat. Donor 
representative(s), World Bank representative(s), subsidiary action program 
representatives, pertinent project staff, and other parties participate as observers. 
 
Regional Decision Support System (DSS) center. 
A
regional DSS center at the PMU serves as 
the hub of the DSS work. The regional DSS center is instrumental in developing DSS tools 
and applying them at the regional level, as well as ensuring effective liaison and 
coordination with national DSS units (described below). To ensure that the DSS remains 
firmly anchored in the basin, regional staff from the PMU and from national DSS teams, 
along with consultant teams, comprises a DSS core team, which is responsible for DSS 
development and implementation. In the longer term, it is envisioned that the regional DSS 
center will evolve into a center of excellence serving regional needs and with advanced 
capabilities in DSS-related activities, such as information management, GIS, web 
technology, and water resources modeling. This center could play a crucial role in 
supporting the large-scale investment programs expected to emerge over time from the 
subsidiary action programs. A succession plan will be drafted to help ensure that this 
longer-term vision is realized. 
 
Project management at the national level 
 
National focal point institution
.
At the country level, a national focal point institution for the 
WRPM project has been designated in each NBI country within the Ministry responsible for 
water affairs. Within the national focal point institution, each country has appointed a staff 
member to serve as DSS counterpart staff. DSS counterpart staff serves as member(s) of a 
national DSS team and participate in DSS development, training, and application. DSS 
counterpart staff includes at least one expert in water resources engineering/modeling and 
one IT/database technician. DSS counterpart staff responsibilities are typically carried out 
on a part-time basis. 
 
National DSS units. 
To strengthen capacity at the national level, a national DSS unit has 
been established in each country. The government provides office facilities in the ministry 
responsible for water affairs, while the project has hired, on a nationally competitive basis, 
a
full-time 
national DSS
 
specialist
,
an 
IT/database expert
,
and other support staff as feasible. 
At the regional level, the national DSS specialist participates in development of the DSS as 
a
member of the DSS core team. At the national level, the national DSS specialist serves as 
Page  10
10
the head of the national DSS unit and is responsible for guiding DSS-related work in-
country and for ensuring that a strong national DSS team is developed with the 
government counterpart staff. S/he also liaises with the Nile Technical Advisory Committee 
(Nile-TAC) members in the country on component-related matters, the National NBI office, 
and other SVP projects to ensure synergy between component- and national-level NBI 
activities. 
7.   Sustainability and Risks 
The proposed Phase II financing has the potential to generate several economic and social benefits. 
The 
sustainable development of water resources and water-related investment projects on a 
regional scale is central to the goal of poverty alleviation in the Nile Basin. This project 
facilitates the identification and evaluation of multi-country water resources projects, based 
on sound information and decision making tools, for potential implementation through 
Subsidiary Action Programs. The development of mutually acceptable and environmentally 
sound investment projects will support sustainable economic growth and improved social 
conditions. The immediate beneficiaries of the WRPM project will be policymakers and 
decision-makers as well as planners and managers of water resources in the Nile riparian 
countries. Enhanced skills in water policy and project planning and management, coupled 
with improved analytical tools and strengthened institutions, will improve the basis for 
strategic planning, the identification and implementation of cooperative projects, and sound 
technical evaluations. The development of the information management system will create 
a
structure for basinwide communication and information exchange, which has been a 
challenge in the region. In the long term the broader population of the Nile Basin should 
benefit from these developments. 
 
Some of the proposed activities entail implementation risks. While progress has been good and the project 
is positioned for timely and successful completion of activities, there are nonetheless some risks 
associated with the remaining work plan. The DSS and PPM components have ambitious work programs 
to deliver, both in 2009 and through the close of the project.  The team must remain diligent in monitoring 
progress and pay close attention to deadlines and delivery dates if goals are to be met.  Additionally, a 
tension has surfaced between agreed regional priorities and addressing specific national needs.  Continued 
strategic leadership from the regional project manager is important to ensure those national needs are 
considered and mainstreamed into the regional products being delivered.  Leadership of the DSS 
component needs to be tactful in striking the appropriate regional-national balance as well, in order to 
ensure country-uptake yet overriding transboundary focus to the DSS. More broadly, there is a clear risk 
associated with an overly process-oriented approach. While it is important to continue consultation and 
assessment processes over the course of WRPM delivery, those activities will need to be at a higher, more 
strategic level than during the preparation and launch phases. Finally, it is critical to ensure that issues of 
long-term sustainability of the DSS are considered and tangibly addressed well in advance of project 
close in order to minimize risk of DSS not being used.  The potential risks, mitigation measures and risk 
assessment ratings are given in the table below. 
 
Risk
 
Risk Mitigation Measure 
Risk Rating
 
Nile countries do not remain actively 
engaged in the NBI process. 
Emphasis on regional cooperation and the involvement of high-level persons 
to establish regional and country ownership of the process. Emphasis on 
producing tangible results such that Nile countries experience benefits from 
cooperation. 
N
Basinwide coordination is not effective
 
Strengthen the NBI Secretariat through the NBI-ISP, including hiring of well 
qualified staff, mentoring, learning by doing, and targeted training.  
M
National level institutional capacities in 
water departments are not adequate and 
available to support NBI related projects. 
Government staff participation in task forces, working groups, and DSS 
development process, combined with targeted training, will strengthen 
national institutional capacity. The operation of natio
nal NBI offices will also 
S
Page  11
11
strengthen cross-sectoral coordination capacity at the national level.  
Qualified and motivated staff is not 
available and retained in the region to 
effectively implement and sustain the 
project. 
Project staff will be hired competitively after advertisement in international, 
regional, and national newspapers in an effort to attract qualified staff. Staff 
(both project and government counterpart) motivation and career opportunities 
will be enhanced through exposure to training, exchange, and advanced 
education. Capacity building and succession planning are integrated into 
project design through short- and long-term training programs, based on needs 
assessments. 
M
Riparian countries unable to reach 
consensus on sharing information. 
All riparian countries have committed to sharing information for this project. 
A
subcomponent of the DSS specifically addresses data sharing issues, and 
supports a basinwide consultation process to reach consensus. Moreover, the 
potential for follow-on investment projects will act as an incentive to mitigate 
this risk. 
M
Modeling and database related work is 
not well coordinated among relevant 
NBI projects. 
The NBI Secretariat is responsible for ensuring the wise use of human and 
financial resources for projects under the SVP umbrella and will ensure that 
the work programs for related projects are complimentary and coordinated. 
The regional DSS network will provide a forum to discuss and coordinate 
modeling and data-related issues within the SVP, SAP and other relevant NBI 
projects. 
M
Sustainability 
Trainings will be performed to ensure more widespread capacity for using the 
DSS in order to promote sustained use after project completion. In addition, a 
succession plan will be developed and implemented in order to promote 
institutional sustainability so that key institutions continue to underpin DSS 
use. 
S
Overall Risk Rating 
 
M
Risk Rating: H (High); S (Substantial); M (Modest); N (Negligible). 
8. Environment Aspects  
 
It is anticipated that the project will facilitate the sustainable development and conservation of land, 
water, and environmental resources through skills enhancement, the building of technical tools for 
regional analysis, and the forging of a common understanding of good practice in water policy and project 
planning and management. In addition, the DSS can provide information and analysis tools to support 
improved environmental assessments. The regional river basin planning model can provide valuable 
information regarding the magnitude and timing of river flow in response to alternative development and 
management paths. This information can provide an essential basis for more detailed local environmental 
assessments of impacts of potential projects on sensitive habitats, such as lakes and wetlands. The 
importance of this technical tool in supporting the sustainable development of basin resources is 
demonstrated by GEF support for the river basin model through the SVP Nile Transboundary 
Environmental Action project. The information management system component of the DSS will also 
provide an information management and communication platform for the SVP environment project. 
Because the Water Resources project is largely a capacity building project, it will not have any direct 
physical impact on the environment in the Nile Basin. 
9. Contact Point: 
 
Task Team Leader:  
John Bryant Collier 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
Telephone
:
1
202-473-8551 
 
Fax: 
 
1
202 473 8301
 
Email: jcollier@worldbank.org   
Page  12
12
 
10. For Information on Other Project Related Documents Contact: 
 
The 
InfoShop 
    
 
The World Bank 
 
 
 
 
 
1818
H
Street, 
NW 
    
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: 
 
1 
202 
458-5454 
    
 
Fax:        
1 202 522-1500 
 
Web:  
 
http:// 
www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included in 
the final project.
 
