Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC4280 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/12/2009 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Africa 
Project ID: P116318 
Project Name: SVP-Additional Grant Financing for the Water Resources Planning and 
Management Project - Phase II 
Task Team Leader: John Bryant Collier 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 13, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: March 20, 2009 
Managing Unit: AFTWR 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Theme: Water resource management (P);Other economic management (P) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Nile Basin Initiative Trust Fund 
11.20
11.20 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The proposed financing would support the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) to undertake Phase II 
activities that fulfill objectives outlined in the original Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 
31989, April 2005). The development objective of the NBI SVP Water Resources Planning and 
Management (WRPM) project is to enhance analytical capacity from a basin-wide perspective to 
support the development, management, and protection of Nile Basin water resources in an 
equitable, optimal, integrated, and sustainable manner. Phase II will emphasize the development 
of a basin-wide Decision Support System (DSS) for water planning and management.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The Phase II activities will enable realization of project objectives across the three components 
still active from phase I:  (a) developing a Nile Basin Decision Support System for water 
resources planning and management, (b) improving project planning and management capacities 
through trainings, and (c) enhancing regional coordination to foster the requisite institutional 
setup for sustainable development.  The additional financing will enable the project to implement 
activities outlined as original project objectives, most namely development of a basin-wide Nile 
Basin Decision Support System.  
Page  2
Project Components. The project contains four components: 1) Water Policy Good Practice 
Guides and Support; 2) Project Planning and Management Good Practice Guides and Support; 3) 
Nile Decision Support System (DSS); and 4) Regional Coordination and Facilitation. While the 
Water Policy Component was completed, as planned, at the end of 2008 and the Project Planning 
and Management Component will be completed at the end of 2009, the Nile DSS and Regional 
Coordination and Facilitation Components will stay active through the end of the project in 
2012. The project’s Phase II (2009-2012), therefore, will focus primarily on these latter two 
components with greatest emphasis on development of an operational DSS for the Nile Basin. A 
list and description of all four components is provided below and summarized in table 2.  
 
Component 1. Water Policy Good Practice Guides and Support. This component is focused on 
strengthening capacity to formulate and implement effective national policies and strategies for 
Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) in Nile Basin countries. This is a country- and 
needs-driven component aimed at enabling all basin countries to operate on a more equal policy 
footing. By facilitating a regional dialogue on good-practice elements of the process for 
formulating and implementing water policy, this component helps to enable the NBI countries to 
reach a common understanding of the interaction between national policies, regional needs, and 
cooperative development.  Through the component (and follow-on work being carried out under 
the NBI-ISP), the NBI is establishing a basis for enhancing national transboundary policies and 
strategies in the context of the Nile Basin. Some key activities include: assessing policy 
formulation and implementation needs, compiling good-practice policy guidelines, and 
assembling a compendium of case studies covering the processes of policy formulation and 
implementation. This component is bilaterally supported by Germany and executed by the 
German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ).  
 
Component 2. Project Planning and Management Good Practice Guides and Support. This 
component is focused on enhancing capacity in Nile Basin countries for planning and managing 
multi-country projects as a means to improve IWRM in the region. These skills have become 
increasingly important as NBI cooperation grows and cooperative investment projects are under 
development through the subsidiary action programs. Key activities include workshops and 
trainings to endow countries with key capacities for planning and managing multi-country 
projects. This component is supported by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the Nile 
Basin Trust Fund (NBTF).  
 
Component 3. Nile Basin Decision Support System. This component is focused on development 
of an operational Nile Basin DSS supported by trained staff. The Nile Basin DSS will provide a 
common, basin-wide platform for communication, information management, and analysis of 
Nile Basin water resources. Coupled with human resources development and institutional 
strengthening, the Nile Basin DSS will provide a framework for sharing knowledge, 
understanding river system behavior, evaluating alternative development and management 
schemes, and supporting informed decision-making from a regional perspective, thus 
contributing to sustainable water resources planning and management. This component is being 
supported by the NBTF. Key activities related to development, use and institutionalization of the 
Nile Basin DSS include:  
 
Page  3
•
Design, development, and application of the DSS. DSS development entails 
establishment of a basin-wide communication and information management system to support 
the NBI; and a regional river basin planning model to assist in the evaluation of alternative 
development paths, and the identification of joint investment projects at sub-regional and 
regional levels. To ensure ownership, transparency, confidence, and sustainability, the 
development process is highly participatory, involving consultation and direct input on the 
national, sub-regional (SAPs), and basinwide levels.  Given the time required to develop the 
DSS, the approach is also designed for flexibility to allow it to evolve, as necessary, in response 
to perceived needs.  
 
•
Data guidelines and information exchange. Accurate, timely, compatible data is required 
for DSS success.  Therefore, WRPM will work with the NBI Countries to develop 1) common 
guidelines for collecting, processing, analyzing, and exchanging data and information; 2) 
common and transparent standards for the reliability and accuracy of DSS data; and 3) common 
data formats and other procedures that facilitate data exchange and quality assurance procedures.  
 
•
DSS consolidation and sustainability. As the DSS is designed, WRPM will also work to 
ensure its long-term sustainability and usefulness to the Nile riparians.  The operational 
functioning of the DSS is to be further tested and consolidated; a long-term training plan will be 
implemented; DSS-related activities are being embedded in national institutional frameworks; 
and long-term financial sustainability issues are being addressed.  
 
Component 4. Regional Coordination and Facilitation.  This component includes activities 
related to the project management arrangements that facilitate regional cooperation and project 
implementation, including monitoring and evaluation and the operation of the Project 
Management Unit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Key activities include establishing the overall 
management arrangements for the project, ensuring coordination and integration within the 
overall NBI and SVP framework, and maintaining and operating the project management unit.  
Additionally, the component includes the establishment and operation of the project steering 
committee, facilitation of the formation of project related task forces and working groups and 
development of a Monitoring and Evaluation Plan based on the NBI’s ownresults based system. 
This component has been supported by the NBTF as well as the Global Environment Facility 
(GEF).   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The project will be managed by the WRPM Project Management Unit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, 
with continued oversight from the Nile Basin Initiative Secretariat in Entebbe, Uganda.  The 
projected will be implemented in nine Nile riparian countries: Burundi, Democratic Republic of 
Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
There are no safeguards issues related to this project; however, when preparing the NBI 
Institutional Strengthening Project (ISP), the NBI developed a framework for addressing 
safeguard issues.  
 
Page  4
The NBI is committed to reaching out to stakeholders across the Basin. The preparation of the 
Shared Vision Program, the Water Resources Planning and Management Project I is one of eight 
projects comprising the SVP that has exhibited an exemplary multi-country and multi-sectoral 
participatory process led by the Nile-COM and the Nile-TAC and executed by the NBI 
Secretariat with involvement of more than 70 national experts from nine riparian countries.  
 
During  the pre-appraisal and implementation planning phase of the project, in-country 
consultations were held with a range of stakeholders, including representatives from water-
related ministries (e.g., power, agriculture, planning, environment, etc); meteorology, mapping 
and GIS agencies; academic and training  institutions; private sector representative; and donor 
partners. This consultative process continued through project implementation.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr John Bryant Collier (AFTWR) 
Ms Roxanne Hakim (AFTCS) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
N/A   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
N/A   
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
N/A   
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
N/A   
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
N/A   
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
N/A   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
N/A   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
N/A   
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
N/A   
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
N/A   
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
Page  5
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  03/13/2009 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
N/A   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr John Bryant Collier 
03/12/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
03/12/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ashok K. Subramanian 
03/12/2009 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  6
