Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7270 PAK 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4031 PAK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Banking Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 14, 2005
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7270 PAK 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4031 PAK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 14, 2005, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
December 17, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the 
“Program”), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
 
(
B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Development Credit 
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the International 
Development Association (the Association) to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance to support the Program and, by the Development Credit Agreement, 
the Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to sixty-five million three hundred thousand
 
Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR65,300,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by extending the Loan in one 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
from the Loan Account such currencies as shall be required to meet 
payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08, and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, and 9.08.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred
 
million dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of one hundred ninety-
nine million dollars ($199,000,000) from the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in dollars
 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.  If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of 
the Loan was used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;  
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, 
Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of, and Schedules 1 and 2 to, the Development Credit Agreement 
are hereby incorporated in this Agreement, and shall remain in full force and effect 
irrespective of the termination of the Development Credit Agreement, with the following 
modifications in said Articles and Schedules (unless the context otherwise requires): 
 
(a) 
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
the terms “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be read as “Loan” and 
“Loan Account”, respectively, other than in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and  
 
(c) 
the terms “this Agreement” and “the Development Credit Agreement” 
shall be read as “the Loan Agreement”. 
 
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has 
been notified otherwise by the Bank:  
 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association with 
respect to any Credit-related matter under the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the 
Bank; and 
 
(b) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association with respect to any Credit-related matter pursuant to the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement, including the General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements referred to therein, shall be deemed to have been 
furnished both to the Association and the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(a) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have 
occurred.  
 
(b) 
Any action shall have been taken or any omission shall have been made 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary or Section Officer, Economic Affairs Division, Ministry of Economic Affairs 
and Statistics of the Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 
Islamabad 
 
Pakistan 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMIC 
 ECDIV-05-634 
  92-51-9205971 
 
Islamabad 
     92-51-9218976 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Mushtaq Malik 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
 
Country Director 
 Pakistan 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE  
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; and by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2013 through March 15, 2024 
4.17% 
 
On September 15, 2024 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  10
-
9
-
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
