                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 34912

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-40310 FSLT-72700)

                                           ON A

                                     LOAN AND CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                         PAKISTAN

                                           FOR A

                   BANKING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY PROGRAM




                                      JANUARY 17, 2006




Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective January 17, 2006)

                  Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupees (Rs)
                           Rs. 1 = US$ 0.0167
                    US$ US$ 1 = Rs. 59.94

                        FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1     June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

            ABL             Allied Bank Limited
            ADB             Asian Development Bank
            AML             Anti-Money Laundering
            BCO             Banking Companies Ordinance of 1962
            BSAL            Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
            BSAL            Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
            BSDP            Banking Sector Development Program
            CAR             Capital Adequacy Requirement
            CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
            CIRC            Corporate and Industrial Restructuring Corporation
            DFI             Development Finance Institution
            FA              Financial Advisor
            FCD             Foreign Currency Deposit
            FSAP            Financial Sector Assessment Program
            FSDIP           Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project
            GOP             Government of Pakistan
            HBFC            Housing Building Finance Corporation
            HBL             Habib Bank Limited
            ICP             Investment Corporation of Pakistan
            IDBP            Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
            IRAF            Institutional Risk Assessment Framework
            MCB             Muslim Commercial Bank
            MOF             Ministry of Finance
            NAB             National Accountability Bureau
            NBP             National Bank of Pakistan
            NCB             Nationalized Commercial Bank
            NDFC            National Development Finance Corporation
            NIT             National Investment Trust
            NSS             National Savings Scheme
            OAEM            Other Assets Especially Mentioned
            PC              Privatization Commission
            PRSC            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
            SBP             State Bank of Pakistan
            SMEB            SME Bank Limited
            UBL             United Limited ABL
            ZTBL            Zari Taraqiati Bank Limited


                 Vice President:       Praful C. Patel
              Country Director         John W. Wall
               Sector Manager          Simon C. Bell
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Kiatchai Sophastienphong

                                          PAKISTAN
                    Pakistan Banking Sector Development Policy Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project

Project ID: P083079                                                  Project Name: PK Banking Sector Development Policy
                                                                     Credit
Team Leader: Kiatchai Sophastienphong                                TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 17, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: PK Banking Sector Development Policy Credit              L/C/TF Number: IDA-40310; FSLT-72700
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Banking (100%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (P); Standards and financial reporting (S); Corporate governance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/18/2004                                     Effective: 01/18/2005                01/18/2005
     Appraisal: 11/02/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 01/13/2005                                      Closing: 07/31/2005                 07/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Praful C. Patel
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:                 Simon C. Bell                                  Simon C. Bell
Team Leader at ICR:             Kiatchai Sophastienphong                       Mudassir Khan
ICR Primary Author:             Kiatchai Sophastienphong;
                                Shamsuddin Ahmad; Isfandyar
                                Zaman Khan; Anwar Ali Bhatti


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

        The objective of the Project, which remained unchanged throughout the project life, was to support
Phase III of the banking reforms. These reforms were aligned with Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) recommendations and the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and included:
(i) improving sector governance through privatization of United Bank Limited (UBL), Habib Bank Limited
(HBL) and resolution of Allied Bank Limited (ABL); (ii) further strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory environment for banking; (iii) improving transparency and disclosure; and (iv) preventing
possible use of the banking system for money laundering. An assessment of the objective and design of this
operation needs to be seen against the background of Pakistan's reform experience and in the context of the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.

Background

        Pakistan has implemented far-reaching reforms in the financial sector during the last decade with
the help of the Bank. The banking sector has undergone fundamental changes through a three phased
reform program. The first phase of reforms initiated in 1997, was supported by the Banking Sector
Adjustment Loan (BSAL). The reforms managed to address the root cause of sector's problems and
achieved a complete turnaround in the environment for banking in the country. The reforms involved
controlling abuse of the public sector banks by vested interests through changes in laws and governance;
strengthening the regulatory framework and institutions; rationalization of interest rates through reforms in
the National Savings Scheme (NSS), improving the environment for enforcement of financial contracts,
bringing greater transparency and disclosure of information, and operational restructuring of public sector
banks.   While these reforms managed to improve the environment, the sector remained government
dominated and privatization efforts stalled. Realizing the need, the Government initiated a second phase of
reforms with further restructuring. These reforms were supported by the Banking Sector Restructuring
and Privatization Support Project (BSRPP) in 2001. Under this program public sector, banks further
downsized their work force and rationalized their branch networks, reducing their overall cost structure and
improving profitability. The program also managed to liberalize bank branching, and rationalized the tax
structure. Together, these reforms paved the way for third phase of reforms which covered privatization of
two out of the three largest commercial banks i.e., UBL and HBL and the sale of 75 percent shares of
Allied Bank Limited to local investors. With the privatization of two of the three NCBs which accounted
for nearly 25 percent of the system and sale of Allied Bank Limited (ABL), nearly 80 percent of country's
banking sector assets are now in private hands. As National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) is planned to be
privatized only in the medium term, the bank was listed on the stock exchange. The government has so far
divested 23.2 percent of the bank's shares through public offerings. This has also brought the first
generation reforms commenced in the late 1980s to near a conclusion. The Banking Sector Development
Policy Program (BSDP) supports the completion of the third phase and helps with financing the costs
incurred by the government in re-capitalizing these banks prior to privatization. The Government and SBP
have now initiated second-generation reforms which aimed to further develop the financial markets
infrastructure by improving the policy and regulatory environment and expanding access to financial
services for all segments of the society and sectors of the economy.

World Bank Group Assistance Strategy

        Based on the Government's strong progress in implementing reforms, Pakistan CAS fully
recognizes and supports the banking sector reforms and is aligned with the Government's Poverty



                                                     - 2 -

Reduction Strategy.    The Government regards the financial sector reforms as central to its poverty
reduction and growth strategy and the PRSP clearly states the Government's medium term strategy on the
financial sector - the vision being of a financial sector that intermediates effectively and caters to all
segments of the society thereby contributing to increased growth and reduced poverty in the long run.

        The broad PRSP objective for the financial sector is to improve governance through restructuring,
privatization, and strengthening banking supervision.     Specific areas of importance within the sector
include: integration of NSS rates with rates of comparable market instruments; rationalization of taxation
on banking; privatization of NBP; bringing the three restructured DFIs to the point of sale or closure;
restructuring of SME Bank and Zari Taraqiati Bank Limited (ZTBL); implementing Anti Money
Laundering legislation and preparing bankruptcy legislation, further developing the pension and insurance
systems and improving the overall framework for contractual savings.

        In line with CAS and PRSP, the Bank has continued its support to Pakistan's financial sector
reforms through FSDIP, BSAL, and BSRPP. The Banking Sector Technical Assistance Project, approved
in July 2002, supports further strengthening of the SBP and the SECP. The recently approved Second
Poverty Alleviation Project also aims to enhance access to finance for the poor. Future assistance will
focus on consolidation of existing reforms and further deepening of the financial sector. Both the PRSP and
CAS recognize the importance of financial sector reforms for accelerating economic growth and reducing
poverty.

3.2 Revised Objective:

        None

3.3 Original Components:


l       Improving sector governance through privatization of UBL, HBL and resolution of ABL,
l       Further strengthening the regulatory and supervisory environment for banking,
l       Improving transparency and disclosure, preventing possible use of the banking system for money
    laundering.


3.4 Revised Components:

        None

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        The project was not subjected to GAG assessment of Quality at Entry

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        All the major development objectives of BSDP, namely improving sector governance through
privatization of UBL, HBL and resolution of ABL, further strengthening the regulatory and supervisory
environment for banking, improving transparency and disclosure and preventing possible use of the banking
system for money laundering have been fully realized. The successful implementation of BSAL, BSRPP &
BSDP improved the overall performance of the banking system. The divestiture of state-owned banks



                                                    - 3 -

substantially changed the structure of the banking sector and nearly 80% of sector assets is now controlled
by private banks. The overall banking sector has become considerably more competitive and responsive to
customers' needs.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Sector Governance Through Privatization

         This component was designed to achieve better governance in the banking sector. In order to reach
that goal the government carried out extensive operational restructuring of HBL and UBL to enable the
eventual privatization of these banks. Restructuring measures included but were not limited to equity
injections, advances against rights issue, issuance of government bonds, tax refunds and transfer of NPLs.
For HBL the cost of balance sheet restructuring amounted to US$ 667 million and $ 816 million for UBL
including the cost of voluntary schemes (VRS) in the two banks. With the successful privatization and
adequate capitalization of these banks this component was considered successfully completed. In the case
of ABL, given its precarious financial position with a negative equity of Rs. 3.97 billion (US$66 million),
SBP structured a sale of additional shares of 75.35 percent of its combined paid-in capital through a
limited public offering. Five investor groups were pre-qualified for bidding and ABL was sold to the
highest bidder meeting the SBP's "fit and proper" test for strategic investors at a price of Rs. 14.2 billion
(US$237 million) . The price showed a high premium of Rs. 33.7 per share - reflecting the competitive
banking environment, better sector governance, and the fact that the equity will stay within ABL. With the
eventual transfer of the bank to a fit private investor, ABL's financial and governance issues were resolved
and this part of the component was also considered successful. As for NBP , the only remaining NCB, the
Government has already divested 23.2% of its shareholding in the bank through stock exchange, and it is in
the process of amending the Banks Nationalization Act of 1974 to grant minority shareholders voting rights
and continue further divestments. Furthermore, the Government has started the process of restructuring of
ZTBL, SMEB, HBFC, IDBP, ICP and NIT- the largest open-end mutual fund ­ with the end game of
privatization.

Effective Regulation and Supervisory Capacity at SBP

         The SBP has introduced a new system of monitoring, surveillance and supervision called the
Institutional Risk Assessment Framework (IRAF). IRAF is an institution specific risk rating designed to
make banks and DFIs pay greater attention to their risk management regimes. Although the minimum
capital adequacy ratio continues to be 8 percent, the existing uniform CAR requirement has been replaced
with the variable CAR which will be based on the IRAF rating assigned to individual banks. Furthermore,
the SBP has tightened further the loan loss provisioning requirements to bring them in line with
international best practices. The OAEM category has been eliminated and the aging criteria have been
revised whereby the loans overdue by 90 days will be classified substandard, 180 days doubtful, and one
year or more as loss effective from November 2005. Furthermore, the required minimum paid-in capital
has been raised to Rs 6 billion (about US$100 million) to be achieved in a phased manner over the next
four years. The SBP has adopted and is implementing a new Strategic Plan for 2005-10 to ensure that the
reforms will continue regardless of the change in the leadership of the institution. The strategic planning
process was participative, consultative, and result-oriented. The overall direction, objectives, vision and
mission of the SBP were provided by senior management and spelt out in the document "Pakistan's
Financial Sector: A Roadmap for 2005-2010" and the Concept Paper for Strategic Plan 2005-10.




                                                      - 4 -

Promote Transparency and Disclosure

         The SBP's image as a responsible central bank and regulator of the financial system has been made
possible by the increased focus on transparency, openness, policy formulation through consultative process,
and information dissemination. The number of economic and statistical publications has been increased and
a medium-term (2005-10) Strategic Plan was unveiled to apprise market players about the SBP's plans for
the financial sector during the next five years. Furthermore, the internal and external stakeholders' surveys
were conducted for the second consecutive year to assess the approval rating of various change initiatives
as well as stakeholders' satisfaction with SBP's performance in a number of areas. SBP has started
publishing its annual Performance Review since FY03. The performance review takes stock of SBP
initiatives achieve progress towards strategic objectives as well as build and enhance its institutional
capacity to align it with the strategic direction. The Banking System Review, now a regular quarterly
activity, is another initiative to keep stakeholders abreast of the developments in the banking system and
provides them an assessment of the overall health, stability, and resilience of the banking system. The MPS
(Monetary Policy Statement), issued biannually, is one of the most significant SBP initiatives to make the
monetary formulation and implementation process more objective, predictable and transparent. SBP has
taken a number of steps towards adopting international standards for data collection, compilation, and
dissemination. With the implementation of the IMF's Balance of Payments Manual, Pakistan was accepted
as a member of General Data Dissemination System. The SBP has taken a number of steps to ensure
adequate disclosure by banks and DFIs about key activities, financial condition, and business performance,
to protect the interest of customers of these institutions. At the end of each accounting year, all banks and
DFIs are required to prepare their annual financial statements based on IAS formats. In addition, they have
been asked to publish an abridged version of their half-yearly financial statements in the newspapers. The
quarterly financial statements will also be circulated to the shareholders and an abridged version thereof
will be published in the newspapers. Furthermore, effective from December 2005, all banks and DFIs are
required to include a comprehensive paragraph under the heading "Risk Management Framework" and a
Statement on Internal Controls in the Directors' Report in their annual audited accounts.

Prevent Use of Banking System for Money Laundering

         Pakistan has taken several measures to prevent banking channels being used for money laundering.
It is an active member of Asia Pacific Group on Anti-Money Laundering. It participates in its programs
and meetings for implementation of Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regime in the country. SBP has held
awareness and capacity building programs, workshops, and seminars to sensitize the banks' management
and staff about the importance of AML initiatives. It has established AML unit and issued prudential
regulations dealing with AML. The unit is entrusted with the responsibility of bringing rules and
regulations in line with international best practices and developing an effective regulatory system that
minimizes the possibility of money laundering.

         The draft AML law has been approved by the Cabinet and is currently under consideration in the
Ministry of Law, Justice and Human Rights. Pending the enactment of the AML law, SBP has taken steps
to set up a Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) and to intensify the contacts with the new Economic Crime
Wing under the National Accountability Bureau (NAB). It is also in the process of laying down rules of
engagement to prevent, detect, and prosecute banking crimes. To ensure consolidated supervision, SBP
plans to intensify cooperation with other regulatory bodies (both foreign and local) in enhanced off-site
monitoring and targeted on-site inspections of cross border branches.




                                                      - 5 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The institutional impact has been substantial. Learning from the experience of resolving troubled
NCBs, SBP plans to formulate more pro-active banking crisis resolution mechanism through
implementation of the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regime and reinforce it with modification in the
Banking Companies Ordinance of 1962. Drawing lessons from its experience with privatization of NCBs,
SBP is in the process of developing appropriate strategies to facilitate the GOP in privatization and
divestment of the public sector banks including IDBP, SME Bank and ZTBL, divestment of the remaining
shares in the already privatized banks. The strategy is to proactively play its role as an advisor and
facilitator of the privatization process by bringing improvements in the selection of strategic investors, due
diligence, and successful completion of the transactions. Last but not the least, SBP is taking steps to
further strengthen the financial sector through introduction of a Deposit Insurance Scheme, a phased
increase in the regulatory capital requirement, and acting as catalyst in the development of an enabling legal
framework for private sector credit bureaus.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The implementation of this project was aided by several outside factors that had a generally
positive influence. The first was the interest shown by many reputed investors who bid for the strategic
shares of HBL, UBL and ABL. Though there were initial setbacks with the sale of UBL, the extent of
interest shown by investors in HBL and ABL was remarkable, contributing to the success of GOP's bank
privatizations. The second was the positive and enterprising behavior of the buyers of these banks in
subsequently turning them around. The third was speed with which the Bank came forward to support all
the three phases of the reform program, thereby facilitating implementation. Finally, the fourth was the
absence of resistance and opposition from the vested interests, such as the employee unions and defaulters
of these banks towards privatization, and from the financial institutions for greater transparency and
disclosure.

         On the negative side, the increased liquidity in the system has led to a rapid expansion of credit to
the consumer sector that could be problematic if corrective measures were not taken. Banks will need to
strengthen their credit appraisal systems and risk management since much of the credit growth is in areas
where banks are relatively inexperienced. There is also a need for close monitoring by the regulator to
ensure that the rapid credit growth does not compromise credit quality and undermine the banks' balance
sheets. SBP has already issued risk management guidelines, restricted financing for purchase of plots alone
unless they are accompanied by construction of house to control speculation of land prices, and increased
the provisioning of banks including a 5 percent general reserves for unsecured and 1 percent for secured
consumer lending.




                                                      - 6 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        The major factor that affected implementation and outcome substantially was the government's full
and unstained support for the reform program. This coupled with the vision and commitment of successive
Governors of the State Bank ensured that implementation was timely and effective to achieve the desired
outcomes. The reforms supported under this project were a part of the broader "home-grown" banking
reform program designed by the Ministry of Finance with the active participation of the State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP) since the early 1997, and effectively implemented by the SBP. The "home-grown" banking
reform program, as spelled out in their Letter of Development Policy, was implemented in three phases over
the period 1997 to 2004, supported by three IDA Credits and a Bank Loan.                    The Government's
commitment to the broader "home-grown" reform program remained strong over the entire implementation
period and substantially helped to achieve the project outcomes, especially the objective to improve sector
governance through the privatization of UBL, HBL and ABL. The reform of corporate governance in the
financial sector was the most critical for sustainability and irreversibility of the complete reform program
could not have been achieved without the firm, full and continued support of the Government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        The two implementing agencies were the privatization Commission that sold the strategic shares of
HBL and UBL and the SBP that sold ABL. Both the implementing agencies demonstrated strong
commitment and were proactive in implementing the program and actions under its control. SBP has
continued to develop its regulatory and supervisory capacity, enhanced transparency, introduced
anti-money laundering measures, and has recently tightened prudential regulations related to capital
adequacy and loan classification and provisioning.

5.4 Costs and financing:

        Not applicable

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        Overall project sustainability is rated highly likely. While the first and second phases of the overall
reform program moved the achievements towards sustainability, the third phase under this project finally
ensured sustainability. Thus, the reforms implemented under BSAL were able to stabilize the financial
sector and the BSRPP improved the governance and management of the NCBs in preparation for their
privatization. The BSDPC completed the first generation of banking reforms by successfully handing over
HBL, UBL and ABL to qualified foreign and local investors, thereby ensuring the irreversibility of the
reform program. The new investors have already turned around these banks, thereby ensuring that the
operations of these banks will no longer impose any fiscal burden on the Government. In reality, the
profitability of these banks will contribute to the revenues through higher and higher tax payments. The
divestiture of state owned institutions substantially changed the structure of the banking sector and nearly
80% of sector assets are now controlled by the private banks. The overall banking sector has become
considerably more competitive and responsive. The initial profitability of these privatized banks has further
strengthened the government's policy to leave a majority share of the banking sector in private hands. Thus
given the nature and pace of the reforms, reversal is considered unlikely. In its letter of development policy
the government has committed to working actively on the second generation of reforms. It aims to work
towards deepening further the financial sector and integrate it into the global economy. Sustainability is



                                                     - 7 -

further strengthened by the ongoing process of tightening prudential regulations by SBP to ensure the
soundness and stability of the banking sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


        The implementation of this project successfully concluded the first generation reforms that were
commenced in the late 1980s. To assist SBP in implementing the second generation reforms, IDA extended
a Banking Sector TA (TABS) project, amounting to US$ 26.5 million, to strengthen SBP's IT capacity and
further develop its human resources. The TABS project is expected to close at the end of 2007. In the
meantime, SBP and the Government have initiated the design and development of the second generation
reforms aimed at expanding access to financial services for all segments of the society and sectors of the
economy. These reforms are in line with the recommendations of the joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector
Assessment Program conducted in April 2004. The FSAP found the results of the reform efforts in the
banking sector manifested in improving financial soundness indicators, greater resiliency to credit, market
and liquidity risks, and good compliance with international supervisory standards.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


        Since this was the third in a series of operations designed to support the first generation of banking
reforms, the Bank has established good and close dialogue with the Government. The Bank has also
acquired an in-depth knowledge of the main issues involved in the reform process. Earlier operations had
supported operational restructuring in order to facilitate privatization. The Bank had linked the subsequent
recapitalization support to successful privatization. The IDA credit of US $100 million and IBRD of US
$200 under the BSDP were released after the privatization of UBL and HBL was complete and the
governance and financial problems of ABL had been resolved. Since all these prior actions were
successfully carried out, the BSDP was approved in January 2005.

7.2 Supervision:


        Due to the nature of the adjustment lending and quick disbursement there was no formal
supervision done for BSDP. Since it was in constant touch with the stakeholders throughout the period of
implementation of BSRPP, the Bank had a good dialogue with these stakeholders and maintained close
oversight over major developments that might have any bearing on project implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


        BSDP was a result of a reform program that was primarily led by the borrower. The Bank's role
had been restricted to that of a facilitator. All major decisions and actions were taken by the borrower who
was very clear about the strategy regarding reforms in the financial sector. The borrower worked diligently
to ensure that the prior actions were met in a timely fashion with no compromise on quality. The borrower
led by SBP was convinced that with the successful completion of this program, the phase III of the first
generation of financial sector reforms had been brought to a satisfactory conclusion. The government has
concurrently started working on the second generation of financial sector reforms to consolidate the gains


                                                      - 8 -

realized thus far and to build on the strengths of the financial system for expanding access to financial
services. The strategy is aligned with the recommendations of the FSAP and is also discussed in the
Government's LDP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


    The transformation of a largely state-owned and weak banking system into a healthy and
privately-owned system could not have been brought about but for the active support and strong
commitment of the government to banking reforms. The government has played a proactive role in the
process of restructuring the NCBs, on-going consolidation, strengthening of regulatory capacity, and
improvements in transparency, corporate governance, and credit culture. As a result, quasi-fiscal
responsibility of financial institutions have been reduced sharply. The reform efforts are reflected in
improving financial soundness indicators, greater resiliency to credit, market and liquidity risks, and good
compliance with international supervisory standards.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


         The credit for the success of bank reforms owes in no small measure to the role of SBP in effecting
needed reforms throughout the three phases of banking reforms supported by the Bank. Key measures
included changes in laws and governance, strengthening the regulatory framework and institutions,
rationalization of interest rates through reforms in the National Savings Scheme (NSS), improving the
environment for enforcement of financial contracts, bringing greater transparency and disclosure of
information, and operational restructuring of public sector banks. To promote scale economies and
efficiency and achieve better oversight, SBP also sought to consolidate the banking sector by increasing the
minimum capital requirement from Rs. 500 million (US$ 8.3 million) to Rs. 750 million (US$ 12.5 million)
as of end-December 2001 and further to Rs. 2 billion (US$ 33.3 million) as of end-December 2005. Most
recently, SBP has issued a Circular raising the minimum capital requirements in phases from Rs. 2 billion
to Rs. 6 billion (US$100 million) at the end of 2009. It has also shifted from uniform Capital Adequacy
Requirement (CAR) to a variable CAR which is linked to the rating of the financial institution under the
Institutional Risk Assessment Framework (IRAF).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


         The government's overall performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


         A number of useful lessons can be learned from Pakistan's experience with banking sector reforms
including the following:

1.       To ensure that the banking sector privatization runs smoothly, it is very important to have
government ownership of the initiative.       Setting conditions alone will not serve the purpose as the
government can comply with the letter rather than the spirit of the agreement.
2.       To ensure smooth transition from a nationalized to privatized bank, it is a good practice for public
sector banks to undergo cost and operational restructuring before privatization.
3.       The cultural change in the organization must be inculcated prior to privatization. The seeds for the
new corporate culture should be sown prior to handing over the bank to the new owners.
4.       It is important that a public sector bank is recapitalized before privatization or at the point of sale



                                                     - 9 -

so that it will be able to meet the central bank's minimum capital requirements. Under no circumstances
should the supervisory authorities allow regulatory forbearance for the newly privatized bank.
5.        Government-related business should not convey to the privatized bank as it is important that the
bank begins its operations on a level playing field.
6.        The government can expect higher bids for the bank sale if the payment for the bank's shares is
injected right back into the bank rather than given to the government as consideration for its existing shares
in the bank. The privatization of ABL was structured in such a way that the entire proceeds from the bank
sale went into the recapitalization and restructuring of the bank's balance sheet. The shares were sold at a
premium of Rs. 33.7 over par value or 337 percent.
7.        Enhanced regulatory and supervisory capacity in the SBP serves to improve the efficiency of banks
and enhances competition among them.                 Foreign banks and NBP (which is still majority
government-owned) should be subject to the same regulations as domestic private banks, creating a level
playing field in the banking sector.
8.        The benefits to the government in the form of higher value of the shares in a privatized bank and
the broader range of financial products at competitive prices - arising from a more healthy and competitive
banking sector - usually offset part of the restructuring costs. The banking reforms that were initiated in
1997 had cost the Government about US$2 billion against the proceeds of US$ 590 million from the sale of
UBL, HBL and NBP's 23 percent shares.
9.        Reforms in the rest of the financial sector should keep pace with those in the banking sector. While
the banking sector has gone through beneficial structural transformation, the rest of the financial sector has
not been subjected to the reform process to the same extent. Insurance penetration is very low relative to
other countries at Pakistan's income level. There is a need for further consolidation and liberalization of the
industry. A number of issues in pensions require the authorities' attention including the financial
sustainability and regulatory oversight of the present schemes. The SECP, which regulates the capital
market, does not appears to have adequate resources and capacity to fulfill its mandate.
10.       Irrespective of costs, restructuring is necessary to restore the safety and soundness of the financial
system since inaction to avoid fiscal costs could result in "meltdown' and huge fiscal costs later.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


          SBP advised the Bank that it had adopted the Strategic Plan 2005-10 which would be
operationalised through successive annual business plan. The strategic objectives of the plan are to: (i)
further strengthen the financial system soundness through consolidation of the banking system by means of
merger and acquisitions, introduction of deposit insurance scheme as a safety net, privatization of IDBP,
ZTBL, and SME Bank, implementation of Basel II Accord, export of financial services to the Middle East,
Central Asia and Africa, further strengthening the supervisory regime, consolidated supervision of
banks/DFIS, formulation of a proactive troubled bank resolution mechanism, and achieving full compliance
with AML regime; (ii) deepen financial sector and broaden access to finance through broadening access of
formal credit to middle and low income groups, promotion and strengthening of Islamic banking, and
development of financial derivatives market; (iii) ensure independent and effective monetary policy
management through enhanced coverage of monetary aggregates, providing regulatory support for
supra-national local currency bonds, and improved quality and dissemination of research, listing of
government securities on the stock exchange, introduction of liquidity adjustment facility, and development
of Islamic money market; and (iv) achieve efficient and sound payment system through promotion and
facilitation of e-banking/commerce within the country, establishment of an electronic clearing house,
facilitation in the development of public key infrastructure and digital certificate infrastructure, and
development of securities settlement system for secondary market.



                                                      - 10 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

        None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


        In addition to government officials, the ICR Mission met with stakeholders in the private sector
including senior bankers in private and foreign banks. There was a general consensus that the privatization
of the banking sector in Pakistan had been a success. Most stakeholders seemed happy with the way the
privatization had panned out and the performance of the banks since. It was generally agreed that SBP had
served as an effective supervisory institution. As the financial practices in Pakistan became more complex,
there was a consensus that human capital to meet these new higher level needs was not available.       The
privatization of public sector banks has enhanced the need for effective top management, and as such,
created a great deal of competition amongst employers. There is need to enhance the skill set in Pakistan,
especially in risk management, particularly in assessing the risk of consumers. There was also a universal
recognition of the need to develop the capital market. It was felt that the debt market was currently not
very deep and effective. Practitioners expressed the need to develop this market further, especially the
corporate bond and commercial paper markets. The views were expressed about the weaknesses of the
existing rating companies country and about the need for good equity market analysts. There was also a
fear that the sector might not have the sophistication and expertise to conform to Basel II requirements.
Furthermore, it was felt that there was limited rationale for having a state-owned commercial bank and that
one should work towards removing any unfair advantage in terms of any tied-in business from the
government. It was also felt that Pakistan was now in great need of an effective Export Credit Agency.

10. Additional Information

None




                                                    - 11 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                           Prior Action Matrix

      Objectives              Prior Action              Outcome Indicator             Status
1. Improving sector     (a) Privatization and       UBL is privately owned and  UBL is
governance through      hand over of UBL.           managed and is adequately   successfully
privatization.                                      capitalized compliant with  privatized.
                                                    SBP regulations;

                        (b) Privatization and       HBL is privately owned and  HBL is
                        hand over of HBL.           managed and is adequately   successfully
                                                    capitalized compliant with  privatized.
                                                    SBP regulations.

                        (c) Merger/sale and         ABL governance issues are   ABL transferred to
                        handing over of ABL to a    resolved with the bank      private sector.
                        qualified private sector    re-privatized and is
                        group.                      adequately capitalized.

                        (d) Qualified bankers       Autonomy and                NBP is
                        appointed to board and      professionalism assured.    professionally
                        management of NBP.                                      managed.

                        (e) Issuance of detailed    Corporate governance        Banks have
                        guidelines under "Fit and   enhanced through hiring of  followed these FPT
                        Proper Tests (FPT)" for     bank managers with          guidelines for
                        the appointment of Board    professionalism and         appointment of key
                        of Directors, Chief         integrity.                  executives since
                        Executive Officers and                                  April 2003.
                        Senior Management of
                        the banks.

2. Develop effective    Introduction of a new       A cohesive and              The IRAF has been
regulatory and          system of monitoring,       proactive monitoring        put in place since
supervisory capacity at surveillance and            through preparation of risk early 2004.
SBP.                    supervision, Institutional  profiles of individual
                        Risk Assessment             institutions and taking
                        Framework                   prompt corrective action as
                        (IRAF).                     and when needed.
                                                    Financial Soundness
                                                    indicators for the system
                                                    show an upward trend.

                        Introduction of separate    More systematic and         Separate guidelines
                        sets of regulations for     risk-focused supervision    have been
                        corporate, SME,             and regulation of financial introduced in
                        consumer finance, and       institutions. General       2003.
                        micro-finance               reserves of 25% introduced
                                                    for unsecured and 5% for
                                                    secured consumer lending.




                                                    - 12 -

                                                   A more effective system of
                        Issuance of guidelines on  risk identification,          Banks have started
                        risk management for        assessment, measurement,      implementing an
                        banks/DFIs.                monitoring, and               effective risk
                                                   mitigating/controlling all    management
                                                   risks inherent in the         strategy based on
                                                   business of banking has       these guidelines
                                                   helped ensure that banks      since August 2003.
                                                   are adequately capitalized to
                                                   assume these risks.

3. Promote                                         Improved transparency and
transparency and        Issuance of master         full compliance with          The consolidated
disclosure.             circular containing        prudential regulations as     instructions on
                        consolidated instructions  Banks/DFIs have increased     financial disclosure
                        on financial disclosure.   public disclosure.            have been put in
                                                                                 place since January
                                                                                 2004.
4. Prevent the                                     Money laundering,
possible use of the     Issuance of guidelines for financing for terrorism, and  Banks have
banking system for      opening/dealing with the   transfer of ill-gotten wealth implemented a
money laundering,       accounts of customers.     through banks will become     know-customer
financing for                                      increasingly difficult.       policy based on
terrorism, and transfer                                                          these guidelines
of illegal/ill-gotten                                                            since March 2003.
money.




                                                   - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                      300.00        299.00
 Physical Contingencies                                                                  100
                        Total Project Costs              300.00
                                        Front-end fee                     1.00
                  Total Financing Required               300.00        300.00




                                                - 14 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 15 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               2/2004                    4    Task Team Leader, Sr. Financial
                                              Sector Specialist, Senior
                                              Financial Management Specialist
                                              and Financial Analyst


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/2004                   4    Task Team Leader, Sr.
                                              Financial Sector Specialist,
                                              Senior Financial
                                              Management Specialist and
                                              Financial Analyst


 Supervision
               07/2005                    2   Task Team Leader and
                                              Financial Analyst


 ICR
               11/2005                   6     Task Team Leader, Sr.
                                               Financial Sector Specialist,
                                               Private Sector Development
                                               Specialist, Financial
                                               Analyst, Junior Professional
                                               Associate and Team
                                               Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               7.98                           31,890
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    9.11                           46,056
  Supervision                              4.33                           10,710
  ICR                                      8.52                           54,780
  Total                                   29.94                         143,436




                                               - 16 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Financial stability




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide-Memoire of the Implementation Completion Report Mission on BSDP
2. Management letter of the ICR Mission for BSDP
3. A Project Completion Report prepared by the State Bank of Pakistan
4. Project Appraisal Document for the Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project dated
October 1, 2001
5. Program Document for the Banking Sector Development Program dated December 13, 2004
6. Country Assistance Progress Report for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan dated Marach 26, 2004




                                                 - 19 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project


         The World Bank approved a loan of approximately US$ 300 million on 13th January 2005 for
Banking Sector Development Policy Credit (BSDPC). The Credit was to be disbursed in one tranche with
closing date of 31st July 2005. The Credit was to support Government of Pakistan towards improving
sector governance through privatization of UBL, HBL and Resolution of ABL, further strengthening the
regulatory and supervisory environment for banking, improving transparency and disclosure and preventing
possible use of the banking system for money laundering.

a) PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT OF BSDPC

         During the last decade Pakistan has implemented wide-ranging financial sector reforms. The first
phase of these reforms initiated in 1997 were supported by Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL),
which were able to stabilize the financial sector by addressing some of the core issues, thus creating a
platform for longer term reforms. Later, Banking Sector Restructuring & Privatization program (BSRPP)
was planned to help the Government with second level of operational restructuring of the NCBs in
preparation of their privatization as well as for improving corporate governance of the partially privatized
banks by divesting the remaining Government holding and allowing complete private sector ownership.

         The BSRPP support program helped in restructuring, downsizing of the staff, closure of loss
making branches, cutting cost and improving efficiency of NCBs and paved the ways for their
privatization. The NCBs underwent extensive operational restructuring with the start of BSRPP in 2001. A
total of 11,856 employees were separated through VSS. Branch rationalization and staff rationalization
reduced the high cost structure of NCBs .By the end of December 2004, cost/income ratios of all NCBs
were below 0.65 as targeted under the project. Under the project NCBs were expected to reduce 1800
branches of the NCBs, however NCBs reduced 836 branches. The closure was below the estimated number
for the reason that, UBL and HBL were privatized well before completion of the BSRPP. Sale of 51%
shares of UBL was completed in October 2002 and sale of 51% shares of HBL was completed on February
26, 2004. Further 23.2% shares of NBP were divested through an IPO & market sales in tranches between
November 2001, and November 2003. In addition 10% shares of UBL off-loaded through IPO, with a
green shoe option of additional 5% in May ­June 2005. Residual shares of MCB were divested in three
market sales from Jan 2001, to Oct 2002. ABL was reconstructed in August 2004, under section 47 of
BCO, 1962 with GOP shareholding reducing to 11.9%. NDFC was amalgamated with NBP in November
2001. Tax structure for banking sector gradually decreased to 41%. The Loan Recovery Act, 1997
amended in 2002 through promulgation of "The Financial Institutions (Recovery of Finances) Ordinance,
2001". Branch Licensing Policy (BLP) was liberalized in 2002, where the banks were allowed to open new
branches after seeking formal permission from SBP. Though the NCBs, closed their loss making branches
& reduced their staff, however, due to healthy competition and positive responsiveness of the banking
sector and liberalization of BLP, the overall offices opened by the Banking sector as well as the overall
staff hired by the banks increased, indicating growth and expansion occurring in the banking sector. Thus
the reforms introduced under the BSRPP significantly improved soundness and efficiency of the financial
system by reducing state intervention and improving environment for banking.


         The third phase of these ongoing financial sector reforms were supported by BSDPC, inclined to
help the Government of Pakistan with financing the costs incurred by the government in recapitalizing
NCBs prior to privatization. The Credit was inclined to support GoP towards improving sector governance
through privatization of UBL, HBL and Resolution of ABL, further strengthening the regulatory and


                                                    - 20 -

supervisory environment for banking, improving transparency and disclosure and preventing possible use
of the banking system for money laundering.


        The SBP took a number of steps to promote transparency and disclosure through a master circular
containing consolidated instructions on financial disclosure. Several measures were taken by SBP to
prevent banking channels for the purpose of money laundering. The measures included the establishment of
AML unit, and issuance of prudential regulations, the unit is entrusted with the responsibility of bringing
rules and regulations in line with international best practices and developing an effective regulatory system
that minimizes the possibility of money laundering. Introduction of a new system of monitoring,
surveillance and supervision, Institutional Assessment Framework (IRAF), aimed to bring more systematic
and risk-focused supervision. ABL governance issues resolved with the bank being adequately
re-capitalized and management transferred to private sector.

        The successful implementation of BSAL, BSRPP & BSDPC program improved the overall
performance of the banking system. The divestiture of state owned institutions substantially changed the
structure of the banking sector and nearly 80% of sector assets are now controlled by the private banks.
The overall banking sector has become considerably more competitive and responsive. Thus continuous
restructuring has reduced the burden on the government and has left it with few minor areas to concentrate.


b) STATUS OF DIVESTMENT OF SHARES OF NCBs


Date of Offer        Name of Entity              Shares Divested    Mode of Divestment          Total Proceeds
                                                                                                (Rs in million)
November 2001       National Bank of Pakistan   37.3 million        IPO                          373.039
                                                (10%)
October 2002                                     37.3 million       Secondary public offer       783.382
                                                 (10%)
October 2003                                     13.098 million     Secondary public offer       602
                                                 (3.2%)
October 2002        Muslim Commercial Bank 24,024,560 shares        Through CDC                 664.17
                                                (9%)
February 2004       Habib Bank Limited          51%                 Strategic Investor          22,409
October 2002        United Bank Limited         51%                 Strategic Investor          12,350
August 2004         Allied Bank Limited         75.35%              Strategic Investor          14,200




                                                     - 21 -

c) Key Performance Indicators of BSDPC and their outcomes

      Key Performance Indicators                                        Outcome
a) Improving transparency & Disclosure The SBP has taken a number of steps to promote transparency and
                                        disclosure through a master circular containing consolidated
                                        instructions on financial disclosure. At the end of each accounting
                                        year, all banks are required to prepare their annual financial
                                        statements in the prescribed manner, as on the last working day of that
                                        year. These financial statements together with the auditor's report, as
                                        passed in the Annual General Meeting, shall be published and
                                        circulated as well as furnished, as returns, to the SBP as prescribed in
                                        the BCO, 1962. Further, all DFIs are also required to prepare their
                                        annual financial statements at the end of each accounting year as on
                                        the last working day of that year. These financial statements together
                                        with the auditor's report, as passed in the Annual General Meeting,
                                        shall be circulated to the shareholders and furnished as returns to the
                                        SBP within three months of the close of the period to which they
                                        relate. Furthermore, an abridged version of the financial statements
                                        shall also be published in the newspaper(s) within the stipulated time.
                                        For 1st and 3rd quarter, quarterly un-audited financial statements,
                                        along with directors' review, shall be prepared by all banks / DFIs,
                                        including the branches of foreign banks, within 45 days of the close of
                                        the quarter to which they relate. These quarterly financial statements
                                        shall be circulated by domestic banks / DFIs to their shareholders.
                                        Furthermore, an abridged version of the quarterly financial statements
                                        shall be published in the newspaper(s) by all banks / DFIs, including
                                        branches of foreign banks, within the aforesaid time. Half yearly (2nd
                                        quarter) financial statements, with limited scope review by the
                                        statutory auditors, shall be prepared by all banks / DFIs, including the
                                        branches of foreign banks, within two months of the close of the
                                        half-year (2nd quarter). These half-yearly statements shall be
                                        circulated to the shareholders by domestic banks / DFIs. Furthermore,
                                        an abridged version of the half-yearly financial statements shall be
                                        published in the newspaper(s) by all banks / DFIs, including branches
                                        of foreign banks, within the aforesaid time. All banks and DFIs,
                                        including the branches of foreign banks operating in Pakistan, shall
                                        prepare their quarterly financial statements within 30 days of the end
                                        of the quarter to which they relate. The quarterly financial statements
                                        shall also be circulated to the shareholders and an abridged version
                                        thereof published in the newspaper(s) within the aforesaid time.
b) Preventing possible use of banking   The SBP has taken several measures to prevent banking channels for
system for money laundering             the purpose of money laundering. The measures include the
                                        establishment of AML unit, and issuance of prudential regulations, the
                                        unit is entrusted with the responsibility of bringing rules and
                                        regulations in line with international best practices and developing an
                                        effective regulatory system that minimizes the possibility of money
                                        laundering.
c) Developing effective regulatory      The SBP has introduced a new system of monitoring, surveillance and
capacity at SBP                         supervision, Institutional Assessment Framework (IRAF). The aim is
                                        to bring more systematic and risk-focused supervision.
d) Completing the process of            The Government has already disinvested 23.2% of its shareholding in
restructuring and privatization of the  NBP, the only remaining NCB, through stock exchange and it is in the



                                                     - 22 -

remaining state owned financial         process of amending the Nationalization Act 1974 to allow minority
institutions.                           shareholders and to continue further disinvestments. The Government
                                        has started operational restructuring of ZTBL, SMEB and HBFC.
                                        IDBP, ICP and NIT- the largest open-end mutual fund, are being
                                        restructured for privatization.
e) Improving the legal framework and    The Loan Recovery Act 1997 amended in 2002 through promulgation
judicial process for enforcement of     of "The Financial Institutions (Recovery of Finances) Ordinance,
financial contracts                     2001. The Government has already initiated the work for review and
                                        consolidation of the banking laws through the Banking Law Review
                                        Commission. The Commission is basically working on banking laws
                                        for implementation of Real Time Gross Settlement System, SBP Act
                                        and sharing Credit Information to facilitate private sector.
f) Improving financial markets          The Government and the SBP have taken concrete steps to improve
infrastructure and excess to financial  the legal and regulatory framework for improving access to finance for
services                                the micro, SMEs and consumers and new Prudential Regulations for
                                        these sectors have been introduced. In addition, the Government has
                                        initiated operational restructuring of ZTBL, HBFC and SMEB. Apart
                                        from this a lot of work is being done on record keeping transparency
                                        in operations, promoting expansion of private sector credit
                                        information services, equipping financial institutions with necessary
                                        tools for a risk based environment, innovation/product development
                                        for borrowers and focus on technology.




                                                      - 23 -

- 24 -

