E-303
VOL. 2
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTION PLAN
June, 1989



I .
I
I



. r   
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
June. 1989



i
I
I                                   I
I



2
PREFACE
The intention in drafting a National Environmental Action Plan is
to   provide   a   framework   for   incorporating   environmental
considerations into the nation's economic development and to focus
and facilitate the co-ordination of the nation's environmental
endeavours. The Plan identifies the areas of environmental concern
which are of the highest priority and specifies the actions
necessary  to  address  these  areas.  It  defines  a  National
Environmental Policy for Lesotho and lays out the institutional and
legislative structures required to implement that policy.
This National Environmental Action Plan should be regarded as a
"living document' which can be modified in the future as necessary
tco conform to the changes expected both in the natural environment
and in socio-economic conditions of Lesotho. Periodic updating of
action programs and new opportunities for enhancing the environment
will lead to continuing revisions of the Plan.
The preliminary version of the National Environmental Action Plan
wa1s prepared on the basis of the preparations for and discussions
at: the International Conference -on Environment and Development held
in Maseru from 12-15 April 1988, together with a careful scrutiny
of- the full texts of the many background papers which were prepared
for the Conference. The preliminary draft was translated into
Sesotho and circulated to all the District Development Councils and
w:idely elsewhere throughout the country.
In addition to comment-t received from Government, from the
Districts, and elsewhere in Lesotho, the principal documents used
to expand upon the preliminary version were the Fourth Five Year
Development Plan (1986/7-1990/91 Fiscal Years), released after the
April Conference, and the Ministry of Agriculture paper dated
August 1988 and entitled "Agricultural Production and Marketing
Policies and Management of Soil, Water and Forestry Resources to
promote Increased Productivity and Improved Nutrition in Lesotho".
After a second draft had been circulated for comment, a High Level
Technical Review Meeting was held in Maseru on October 25-27, 1988.
Over 70 experts from Lesotho government and non-government agencies
plus international environmental specialists revised the document
for the final form presented here.
Chapters 1-4 give the background to the environment and development
issues in Lesotho, describe the main problems and outline existing
Government policy in key areas.  The Five Year Plan is frank in
admitting that environmental policies and programmes have, in the
past, failed to achieve the objectives set for them. The challenge
is to improve coordination of efforts being made by different
Ministries, as well as the modification and strengthening of some
programmes in the light of experience and the introduction.of new



3
initiatives to address problem areas not at present covered. The
emphasis in the Environmental Action Plan is, therefore, on
establishing an appropriate institutional structure and policy
framework (Chapter 5) and on defining actions to address specific
issues (Chapter 6).  While Chapter 1-4 are mainly descriptive,
Chapters 5 and 6 adopt a prescriptive tone, focussing on the
actions which need to be taken, and thus constitute the main part
of the Plan.



i
4
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1: INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.1 The Country
1.2 Resources
1.3 The Economy
1.4 The Agricultural Sector
1.5 Livestock Holdings and the Environment
1.6 Development Strategy and Planning
Chapter 2: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND THE ENVIRONMENT
2.1    Sustainable Development
2.2    Lesotho's Environment - Development Crisis
Chapter 3: LESOTHO'S MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS
3.1    Overstocking and Range Management
3.1.1  Diagnosis of the Problem
3.2    Soil Erosion and Fertility-Loss
3.3    Hazardous Agricultural Chemicals
3.4    Loss of Natural and Historical Heritage
3.5    Unplanned Urban Expansion and Settlement
3.6    Pollution
Chapter 4: EXISTING GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES
4.1    Introduction
4.2    Agricultural Policies
4.3    Land Use Policies
4.4    Soil Conservation, Forestry, Tree Planting and Management
4.5    Energy Policies
.4.6    Fauna, Flora and Historical Heritage
4.7    Other Areas of Existing Policy Affecting the Environment
Chapter 5: INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
5.1    A National Environmental Policy for Lesotho
5.2    Institution Building
5.3    Functions of the National Environmental Council Secretariat
5.4    The Non-Governmental Environmental Advisory Committee



5
5.5    Environmental Awareness and Education
5.6    National  Planning,  Economic  Diversification,  and
Environmental Management
5.7    Population Policy Issues
5.8    Special Needs of Women
5.9    Involvement of Non-Government Organisations
5.10   Environmental Impact Assessments
5.11   Environmental Legislation
Chapter 6: SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS
6.1    Reclamation and Sustainable Use of Rangelands
6.1.1 Existing Policy Elements
6.1.2 Action Required
A. Stocking Rates
B. Enhanced Resource Management
C. Improved Training and Extension
D. Improved Marketing
6.2    Enhancing Soil Fertility and Productivity on Croplands
6.2.1 Existing Policy Elements
6.2.2 Action Required
6.3    Overcoming Energy Scarcity
6.3.1 Existing Policy Elements
6.3.2  Action Required
6.4    Achieving Afforestation
6.4.1 Existing Policy Elements
6.4.2 Action Required
6.5    Population Considerations-
6.6    Maintaining and Enhancing Biological Diversity and
Protecting Historical Monuments and Relics
6.7    Countering Soil Erosion
6.8    Water Management
6.9    Land Management including Control of Urban and Rural
Settlements
6.10   Urban Management and Establishment of Local Authorities
6.11   Proper Use and Disposal of Hazardous Chemicals
ANNEX I: EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND USE LEGISLATION



6
CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
This National Environmental Action Plan comprises the thinking of
literally hundreds of persons from Lesotho plus the experience of
experts from around the world. It is closely related to the Fourth
Five Year Plan and the reader is referred to that document for
details of the history of development in Lesotho. The timescale
considered herein is purposely longer term than five year planning.
Although many actions concerning the environment are urgent and
will be taken now, the Plan recognizes the need for patience and
fortitude since important actions require changing human and
bureaucratic behaviour.
Proximate causes for environmental degradation are only part of the
understanding necessary to deal with these problems - the Plan
searches for underlying and primary reasons why h' man use degrades
the resource base. The search illustrates the multi- disciplinary
approach required for understanding why, especially, rural people
do what they do. An interdisciplinary approach -- an ecology of
ciiscipliness -- must be employed to learn these underlying factors.
Wihat has been lost cannot be conserved or protected; it must be
restored, therefore, much emphasis is given to reclamation and
rehabilitation while recognizing the inexorable changes in the
environment from natural forces.
The scope of this document is broad. The word environment
encompasses:
-  the quality of air and water as related to human health;
- the condition of natural systems of soil, water, vegetation
and animals as related to sustainable productivity;
- the preservation of wild life and their habitats, cultural
and religious sites, and natural beauty;
- the ambience of human settlements and social settings as
related to quality of life;
-  the exploitation of non-renewable resources as related to
maintaining environmental quality.
1.1  Th2 CouLtrX
Lesotho is a landlocked country of some 30 thousand square
kilometres, completely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa.
It is situated at the highest part of the Drakensberg escarpment
of the eastern rim of the South African plateau. The land itself
is classified into 4 physiographic regions (see Map 1).



7
The lowlands:
These range from 1400 to 1800m in elevation, and consist of a belt
varying from 20 to 50km in width along the western border. About
80% of productive arable lands are in this region, as is
consequently the bulk of the human population. In this area rocks
are generally erodible sandstone.   Soils tend to be shallow and
highly erodible especially in duplex formations, i.e. in areas
where a non-permeable clay layer lies beneath the shallow sandy
soil cover.
The foothills:
These have elevations ranging from 1800 to 2000m and form a narrow
strip running northeast to southwest and lying adjacent to the
lower mountain range.   This land covers 8% of the country and
supports a high population density.
The Senou Valley region:
This region has elevations ranging from 1400 to 1800m, it is the
major grassland area and marked by shallow soils. The population
in this region largely depends on livestock and mixed farming.
The higher mountain region:
The mountains range from 2000 to 3400m and are primarily used for
summer grazing.  Rock formations are mainly basalt.
1.2 Resources
The country's principal resources are its land, water and people.
The potential and actual agricultural utilisation of the land are
described in some detail in Section 1.4. Natural resources besides
the land, of which only 13% is arable, are limited.   Mineral
deposits are few and generally uneconomic.   The only obvious
unexploited resource for export is water which is due to be sold
to South Africa-through the Lesotho Highlands Water Project.
The scenic beauty of the country is a major asset for tourism. The
country is rich in historic relics ranging from stone age cultures
through the era of the Bushmen with their cave paintings, to the
founding of the nation over 150 years ago.   These historical
reminders still remain, though threatened through neglect and
vandalism, but the country's wildlife, once abundant in numbers and
species, has dwindled to a poor remnant today.



8
Map 1: PHYSIOGRAPHIC REGIONS
Fiur   : STUCUR  OFP LAOR\OC
50,, .
._..    S~~   .t',m't 
es             logo            1995            20f 00
R"~Ido CM        Fora Secto        -      0  RSA employment,
gt,c,t;-    S.  
ar o-^,.                        .   - 
_  _ ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr a.9..........A_
Figure 1: STRUCTURE OF LABOUR FORCE
Projuctionu 1986-2000
600 
~1500N                      
200                 19             19              20
ftlduel       e        9Formal Sector           RSA employm-nt



9-
Floral diversity  is being progressively  reduced,  prir,arily by
overgrazing  and  indiscriminate  burning,   as  well  as           by
indiscriminate cutting of remnant woody vegetation, gathering of
wood for fires and handicrafts, cutting of grass, especially from
the spongy areas, and cutting and digging of medicinal herbs and
various endangered species.  The preservation of historical relics
and the re-establishment of the diversity of fauna and flora that
once existed have a bearing on the potential for expanded tourism,
.but are of greater significance to the nation as its culture and
heritage.
The total population of the country was enumerated at 1.6 million
in the  1986 census,  with an annual  growth rate of 2.7%.   A
significant portion of the workforce is employed outside of the
country, the number of migrant workers at the time of the census
being estimated at 130 thousand. Employment in the modern sector
of the d4nestic economy is characterised by acute shortages of
managerial, vrofessional and technical skills in all spheres. Two
of the indic%tors of these shortages are vacancies in Government
posts and the relatively large number of expatriates holding high
and middle level positions in the economy.   In all, the modern
sector only provides employment for about 6% of the total labour
force. Approximately 84% of the total population are resident in
the rural areas and depend to a greater or  lesser extent on
agriculture for their livelihood. Population density in the rural
areas varies considerably across the country, as is shown on
Map 2.
1.3 The EconomY
Average per capita income was about M740 in 1985 (US $330m),
putting Lesotho into the category of least developed countries.
It is notable that the Gross National Product of Lesotho is
substantially larger than the Gross Domestic Product (GNP of M1188
million at market prices in 1985, as against GDP of M581 million),
due  to  the  remittances  of  the  migrant  workers.    A  related
characteristic of the economy is that the value of imports of goods
and  services  is  greater  than  GDP  (M798million  as  against
M581million  in  1985).    The  Government's  principal  source  of
revenues is Lesotho's share in the funds accruing to the South
African Customs Union (SACU) .These figures emphasize how vulnerable
the economy would be to any disruption of present migrant labour
practices in South Africa.
Even without policy changes occurring, prospects for growth in
recruitment of Basotho mineworkers are poor, as are employment
prospects in the formal domestic economy (see projections in Figure
1). Agriculture will therefore have to provide for an increasing
proportion of the population.   In that regard, recent declining
trends in agricultural yields are a major source of concern. While
agriculture presently accounts for less than 10% of GNP, in
socio-economic terms it is the key sector and may become



10
increasingly important if more people are forced to depend on the
land.   At the same time,  it is in agriculture that the most
pressing environmental problems are to be found. To examine this
interface between economic and environmental factors, a more
detailed introduction to agriculture and rural land tenure
practices (as compared with other sectors) is warranted, and is
given in the next section.   This provides the context for the
discussion of Government's present agricultural and environmental
policies in Chapter 4, and additional measures proposed in Chapter
6.
MaP a: J-I'(NI'i.    D -'OF *OUL.ATION DENSITY
A"a'
,,    X   * _,^. ?,,,,   ,   r~t. Io j
a- -g- '-S- -
6- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  
1U            j
\E iJ _ f~
4.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~, ^. -t a}, i
t~~~~                        ~    ~~~~~~~~ I  ,   _
@ 3    ,.,'".*  s*



1.4 The Agricultural Sector
Lesotho has the climatic conditions for the annual cultivation of
most temperate zone crops including maize, sorghum, wheat, beans,
peas, vegetables and fruits such as peaches, apricots, cherries and
apples.   Rainfall averages from 400-500 mm pa in the southern
lowlands increasing to 700-900 mm pa in the northern lowlands with
most mountain areas experiencing higher rainfall. The potential
for commercial crop production is greatest in the lowland areas
which contain more than three quarters of the total arable land.
Some arable agriculture takes place in the mountain areas, but most
crops grown are for home consumption or sale in local informal
markets.
Average temperatures and rainfall are usually adequate for
production of most temperate crops, but localized drought
conditions during the growing season, and the likelihood of severe
frosts even into the summer months, pose obstacles to reaching
maximum agricultural crop potential and thus increase the risks
associated with crop agriculture considerably above what would be
indicated from the prevailing average conditions.
In the past, most rural households have had family members involved
in relatively stable migrant employment at wage levels well in
excess of income available from subsistence or most commercial
agricultural activities. In recent years, a smaller proportion of
the population has found migrant work, so this pattern has begun
to change, with conditions being exacerbated by growing population
and consequent growing pressure on -the land. Average farm holdings
of households with land allocations have declined to less than 1,4
ha per household as population has increased, while landless rural
households have increased from 13% of the rural population in 1970
to over 25% in 1986.
The rapid expansion of off-farm employment in the mid 1970's
resulted in an increase in disposable income for rural households
and a decrease in the resident male labour force available to carry
out agricultural production activities. Close integration with the
nearby South African economy provides access to a wide range of
fresh and processed foods at competitive prices which are
increasingly purchased by rural households.  The result has been
a decline in the intensity of traditional.subsistence production
and the slow development of commercial production as the
attractiveness of agricultural income sources to rural households
with small land holdings has declined relative to increased
consumer buying power generated by off-farm earnings.
The operation of traditional land tenure practices has resulted in
the concentration of most agricultural land allocations in the
hands of elderly heads of households, most of whom are women. This
has a positive public welfare effect as it provides these rural
residents, many of whom have limited sources of income, with the



12
basis to provide for their own livelihood. However, most of these
households have few, if any, of the other resources required to
efficiently operate their fields and most produce well below their
maximum potential, with many fields lying fallow each year.
With the generation of off-farm employment opportunities not
keeping pace with the continued expansion of the rural labour
force, there is a growing number of younger, male headed households
being formed each year. There is a potential for increased
participation in commercial agricultural production if land and
credit are made available. At the same time, there is potential
for female headed households to expand the intensity of production
.or household maintenance needs and for commercial crop production,
including horticultural products. Government is designing policies
and programmes to provide a framework and support for both
increased commercial and household production from both groups.
1.5 Livestock Holdinqs and the Environment
The same economic and demographic forces influencing the decline
in crop production for household maintenance have affected
production and sale of livestock products. Livestock are held for
a number of social and economic reasons. Small stock, sheep and
goats, are held primarily for their economic ability to produce
annual income through the sale of wool and mohair and to provide
a source of red meat.  Large stock provide draft power for crop
farming, milk, and a store of wealth which is available to meet
major expenses associated with payment of school fees, providing
marriage dowries and other in-kind expenses associated with social
occasions.
The numbers of both large stock and small stock have tended to
increase during the 1980's, but the number of Basotho holding
livestock has declined with major grazing herds becoming more
concentrated in the mountain areas among fewer owners. This has
led to an erosion in the equitability of traditional communal range
grazing practices, which found their initial justification in the
fact that most rural households owned livestock and were entitled
to free use of public communal grazing land which was managed
through the Chieftainship system. Today, only about half of the
rural households own livestock. The other half is able to derive
little, if any,' benefit from the previously equitable range land
tenure  practices.       Government  policy   regarding  rangeland
utilization is now oriented to restore equity, thereby renewing the
viability of village life and strengthening the rural community
resource base.
With increased stockholdings, combined with the onset of a general
period of below average rainfall, which reduced rangeland recovery
capability, a relentless further deterioration of an already
fragile and eroded land base occurred throughout rural Lesotho, but



13
especially in the southern districts. It is in this context that
the Government is now seeking to expand upon and make more
effective environmental programmes, and to make these an integral
part of agricultural programmes.
In earlier periods when the population pressures on the limited
land base had been less pervasive, many animals were moved from
winter grazing in the lowlands near the owner's residential areas
to summer range land areas  located in the mountains.   These
mountain "cattle post" areas, allocated and controlled by the
Principal Chiefs, have been the basis for control over grazing
rights of livestock holders for many years. Increasing population
pressures on the limited landbase in the lowlands, combined with
greater concentration of livestock ownership among fewer households
and the increase of livestock holders permanently resident in the
mountains, have eroded the equity and efficient management of
traditional transhumance practices as they relate to both lowland
and mountain livestock holders.
A dominant feature of these transhumance practices is that
allocation of cattle post rights has been by historical precedent
and relationship to the lowland Chieftainship Wards.   This has
resulted in the present mosaic of grazing rights amongst livestock
holders, quite unrelated to their residential proximity to
allocated grazing areas. It has led to a relative discrimination
of cattle post allocations against livestock holders who are
permanent residents in the mountain areas. For the same reason,
effective enforcement of grazing rights, through issuance of
permits and implementation of programmes designed to maintain range
land viability have become increasingly difficult to administer.
Government policy is now intended to rationalise cattlepost
adjudication procedures and to arrest environmental degradation
through restoring effective management of public rangelands.
1.6 DeveloRment Strategy and Planning
The accentuation of development problems despite the achievements
since independence, has led to a fundamental reassessment of
Lesotho's development strategy. The new approach emphasizes human
development within a cultural context, putting man at the centre
of development, with economic growth and technological change being
means, and not endg in themselves. Development is to be more inward
looking or endogenous, emphasising self-reliance, self-sustenance
and harmonious advancement as goals.
This is reflected in the Fourth Five Year Development Plan,
covering fiscal years 1986/87 to 1990/91.   The main strategic
objectives of the Plan which emphasize basic needs, employment and
rural development, are to:



14
-   accelerate  development  with  a view  to  meeting  more
adequately  basic  needs,  and  achieving  a more  equitable
distribution of national wealth;
- maximise national income and employment; and
- reduce the poverty level through rural development.
The Plan emphasizes the need to strengthen the role to be played
by Village, Ward and District Development Councils. Through theze
institutions, it is intended that people at the local level will
become involved in the planning process.
Many of the sectoral goals and policies of the Plan focus on issues
central to achieving economic growth while restoring environmental
stability and quality. The problem is precisely that such issues
cut across the responsibilities of different ministries, making it
difficult to achieve the necessary coordination t. make the various
programmes really effective. This issue is addressed in detail in
Chapter 5, where the suggestion is also made that in future
national plans should have less of a macro-economic and sectoral
focus.   By giving more emphasis to environmental factors, and
adopting physical regions as the principal units for planning
purposes, rural development policies would be more likely to
achieve the economic goals set for them, while at the same time
would incorporate a greater element of environmental restoration
and conservation. The success of such a reorientation of national
planning  would depend on the decentralised development council
system becoming effective.



15
CHAPTER 2
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND THE ENVIRONMENT
2.1 Sustainable Development
The International Conference on Environment and Development held
in Maseru in April 1988 marked an important step for the country
in grappling with the close interrelationship between the
environment  and  socio-economic  development.    While  national
environmental consciousness in Lesotho is as old as the emergence
of environmental problems during the colonial period, the
.Conference was held in the context of the growing international
awareness of the environment-development nexus.  Through staging
this Conference, Lesotho has made its own contribution to deepening
global and regional understanding of the issues and of formulating
more soundly based development strategies for the future.
Amongst African countries, the need to incorporate environmental
concerns more thoroughly into economic planning was given formal
recognition in the Lagos Plan of Action, which was adopted in the
Nigerian capital in 1980 following the first Economic Summit of
Heads of State. The process was taken a step further in the 1985
Cairo Conference of African Ministers of the Environment, leading
to environmental issues being given prominence in the African
Priority Programme of Economic Recovery, which was adopted by the
OAU Heads of State and Governments-in the same year.
Within the Southern African Coordination Conference (SADCC), the
Lusaka Declaration of 1980 pointed out that the livelihood of the
majority of the people of Southern Africa is threatened by
environmental degradation, which undermines the farming and animal
husbandry on which they depend.  With Lesotho being the country
considered to be most seriously affected by ecological imbalance
in the region, the SADCC Council of Ministers in November 1981
assigned the Kingdom of Lesotho the role of coordinating soil and
water conservation within SADCC.
At the international level, the culmination of a series of
initiatives to tackle the global environmental and development
issues was the publication in 1987 of the report of the World
Commission on Environment and Development entitled "Our Common
Future".    The  primary  concern  of  the  commission's  report,
reinforcing the message of the 1980 World Conservation Strategy,
is with sustainable development.   The definition given is as
follows:
"Sustainable development is development that meets the
needs of the present without compromising the ability of
the future generations to meet their own needs.'



16
The Chairman of the Commission, the Prime Minister of Norway, Mrs.
Gro Harlem Brundtland, in opening one of the hearings in Harare in
1986, observed that,
'There are many dimensions to this idea of sustainability:
"First,  it  requires  the  elimination  of  poverty  and
deprivation.
"Second, it requires the conservation and enhancement of the
resource base which alone can ensure that the elimination of
poverty is permanent.
'Third, it requires a broadening of the concept of development
so that it covers not merely economic growth but also social
and cultural development.
"Fourth, and most important, it requires the unification of
economics and ecology in decision making at all levels.
"This may sound obvious, but until recently, conservation of
the environment was perceived as something external to the
development    process.. .Environmental    protection    and
development, far from being in conflict, are in fact closely
interdependent, locally, nationally, regionally and globally"
(cited by Minister of Planning, Dr. Sefali, in his address to
the International Conference on Environment and Development
in Lesotho, 1988).
2.2 Lesotho's Environment - Development Crisis
In  Lesotho,  the  organic  link  between  the  environment  and
dievelopment is all too clear. As was described in Sections 1.3 and
1.4, a higher proportion of a rapidly growing population is each
yiear becoming more dependent for a livelihood on the land while
environmental degradation is resulting in declining agricultural
productivity in respect of both crops and livestock. Furthermore,
access to land, ownership of livestock and resulting incomes are
becoming progressively more skewed, accentuating the severe
inequalities which already exist.
T.he main environmental problems will be described in some detail
in the next Chapter.   Seen in the context of the international
development-environment debate, with such a serious imbalance
between rapidly growing population and declining capacity of the
national   economy  to  provide   income  and  employment,   the
impoverishment of the country's land base takes on the dimensions
of a crisis. In Lesotho's case, the question of "sustainability"
is a matter of concern for the present population and not just for
future generations.



7
CHAPTER 3
LESOTHO'S MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS
3.1 Overstocking and Range Management
The most widespread and evident environmental problems of Lesotho
are directly or indirectly related to overstocking. Estimates of
overstocking of rangeland vary from 150 to 300% of estimated
carrying capacities.   Continuous  and uncontrolled grazing has
resulted in progressive deterioration in the condition of the
rangeland, which is manifest in the increasing loss of vegetation
cover, depletion of the more palatable species of grasses and their
replacement by woody shrubs (such as the Karoo shrub, sehalahala).
The July 1988 resource survey by the Conservation Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture found the condition of only 12% of the
rangeland to be "good" or "excellent", the remainder being "fair,
(73%) or "poor' (12%). Other estimates of range condition are far
less optimistic. Unless stocking rates can be dramatically reduced
and range management policies made effective, deterioration will
continue at an increasing rate.
Analysing the underlying causes of environmental problems such as
overgrazing is complicated by the fact that causes and consequences
of the different environmental problems are closely interrelated.
For example, crop residues are consumed by animals due to the
traditional right that stockholders have to graze their animals on
the stubble after harvest.   Overstocking is resulting in the
increased consumption of crop residues that should be essential for
improvement  of  soil  fertility  and  soil  structure,  thereby
contributing to further erosion.   At base,  this factor arises
because of the system of land tenure, which is not only
contributing to environmental degradation, but is no longer
fulfilling the equitable social function for which it was, intended.
As the proportion of the people holding cattle has declined, a
situation has arisen where stockholders have increased their
individual welfare by increasing stocking rates, transhumance and
overgrazing, this being at the expense of society as a whole, which
has to bear the substantial costs of soil erosion and land
degradation.
The major part of direct rangeland degradation in Lesotho is due
to sheep and goats, and is greater in the foothills and mountains.
In the lowlands, cattle are a more significant cause of degradation
than sheep and goats, due to their effects or conservation works
(such as Terraces).



18
3.i .i  Diaznosis of the Problemrr
The proximate causes of rangeland degradation in Lesotho are
overstocking,  poor  livestock  management  and  poor  rangeland
management. However, the main underlying causes are:
1. Population expansion. In an economy where people are, for both
socio-cultural  and  economic  reasons,   heavily  dependent  on
livestock, population expansion has led to a significant increase
in the total number of livestock on the range.  It has also reduced
£ie area of rangeland available by increasing the land area
committed to other uses.
2.   The communal land tenure system in which individuals have
a:Lmost unrestricted access to rangeland has led to overstocking,
by enabling these individuals to ignore most of the costs of
grazing. The result of privately rational behaviour is widespread
rangeland deterioration.  This affects the choice of draft power
as well as the numbers of smallstock grazed.
3.  The communal land tenure system also makes it difficult for
individuals to raise loans for investment in, for example, high
quality breeding stock, thus threatening the genetic pool of
livestock and necessitating larger herd and flock sizes needed to
y:ield a given income.
4. The communal grazing system also makes livestock breeding and
health control difficult if not impossible
5.    The  current  legislation  governing  stocking  levels  is
i:neffective due to the weakness of enforcing institutions, and,
historically, erosion of the power of the chiefs, and the lack of
political will.
6. Unstable and irregular marketing arrangements have provided a
disincentive  to  increase  offtakes.    This  problem  has  been
_ _i=t=c0 r ' -.. i  ' C  zvolvement  z.   - _vate Zactor m-arktc-n;
8.    Finally,  and  potentially  most  important,  the  lack  of
alIternative investment opportunities available to harness, has
coDmpelled many to maintain larger than desirable holdings of
livestock.
3.2 Soil Erosion and Fertility Loss
The most visible aspect of the country's environmental degradation
is the denuded landscape scarred by gullies or dongas.  In fact,



19
however, only a relatively small proportion of the land (5%) has
been made unusable due to the intrusion of dongas.  Soil loss from
sheet and rill erosion is far more significant in quantitative
terms (soil losses pa of 15 million tonnes from croplands and 23
million tonnes from rangelands, as against less than 1 million
tonnes in gully erosion). No attempt has yet been made to quantify
the direct economic costs of this level of soil loss. However, just
to replenish the associated lost soil nutrients with artificial
fertilizer would require the expenditure of hundreds of millions
of Maloti. The real economic damage is even higher, because even
if artificial replenishment were possible, it would not adequately
compensate for soil organic matter.
The dire state of land degradation and related environmental
problems is particularly evident in the lowlands, but is also
present in the foothills and the mountain zone. Human population
is high in the lowlands,  and even with a moderate  livestock
population as compared with the highlands, there is extensive
overgrazing and soil erosion, and rapid deterioration of both water
and soil resources.  The plateaus and hill slopes are marked by
signs of heavy erosion by the agents of water and wind, leaving
behind bare bedrock, clay pans and stony soil lacking in humus.
Dongas contribute by flushing the water and soil from the country
thus washing away arable and pasture lands; this also has the
effect of increasing the rate of siltation of reservoirs and ponds
constructed for water storage.
Civil works structures also make a significant contribution to
erosion and soil loss in some areas. Roads cut through steep and
unstable or erodable areas create significant erosion.   In the
lowlands and foothills there are a number of areas where farmers'
efforts at land husbandry (bents, terraces, etc.), and even tree
plantations have been damaged by gully and sheet erosion initiated
by careless road construction.
In addition to physical causes of erosion and the direct effects
of overstocking, there are several underlying factors which lead
to both soil loss and deterioration in fertility. It is to address
these underlying causes that policy measures need to be directed.
The shortage of household energy sources provides a good example.
Most people in the rural areas, and to an extent in the urban
areas, have been using indigenous shrubs for fuel, due to the lack
of trees. Many parts of the country now have virtually no trees
or shrubs. Besides rendering the landscape bare and unsightly, the
elimination of indigenous shrubs and trees removes nutrients from
existing soil, inhibits new soil formation; and contributes to soil
erosion. The same result comes about through farmers using animal
dung and crop residues as fuels instead of ploughing them back into
the soil to increase fertility and improve soil structure.   The
situation is then exacerbated by monoculture and inappropriate
tillage and husbandry practices.



20
Most of the factors underlying Lesotho's soil erosion and fertility
loss are the same factors which underlie the country's overgrazing
and range degradation. Section 3.1.1 above provides a more detailed
diagnosis of such factors.
3.3 Hazardous Agricultural Chemicals
T'he previous two sections have described the chief environmental
problems affecting agricultural production. Other problems which
have arisen in the agricultural sector include the improper use of
chemicals, in particular hazardous pesticides. There is a lack of
information and of legislative powers in this area, as a result of
which harmful substances, banned in other countries, have been
finding their way into Lesotho.
3.4 Loss of Natural and Historical Heritage
As noted in Section 1.2 above, Lesotho's cultural and historical
heritage is threatened by neglect and vandalism, and its natural
heritage of wild flora and fauna has been very seriously depleted.
Even its heritage of scenic beauty is threatened in places through
the impact of road and transmission line construction, and through
pollution.
By virtue of its topography and climate, Lesotho has Alpine
conditions virtually unique in Africa, with species of flora and
fauna that are limited to this area. However, the pressure of the
expanding human population with concurrent impacts from factors
such as severe overgrazing and uncontrolled burning have seriously
depleted the natural heritage of Lesotho's Alpine areas as well as
its lower lands. Concern about the destruction of indigenous plant
species goes beyond the direct affects on the quality of rangeland
already described. From a broader environmental perspective, the
preservation of genetic diversity -- faunal as well as floral --
is recognised as an international priority for a variety of
reasons, among them   development and improvement of cultivated
plants and domesticated animals, as well as the broader
considerations scientific advance, technical innovation and the
security of industries that use living resources.
A further aspect having more evident direct economic benefit is the
role of indigenous fauna, flora, natural beauty and cultural
heritage in attracting tourists to the, country. Tourism and the
conservation of a nation's natural and cultural heritage are very
closely linked, and many other countries in Africa have found that
a well managed natural and cultural heritage have provided the
foundation for an economically important tourist industry.
However, Lesotho's natural and cultural heritage has been severely
degraded by -- and is under continuing and increasing pressure from
-- the underlying factors discussed earlier in this Chapter. In



t
21
addition,   there  are  virtually   no  effective   institutional
arrangements to conserve and manage it.
3.5 Unplanned Urban Expansion and Settlement
The widespread encroachment of human settlements on an unplanned
basis into agricultural land has been another contributory factor
to declining agricultural production. Farmers have tended to
respond to such incursions into agricultural lands by claiming
grazing land for agricultural production, further overburdening
carrying capacity and exposing new areas to increased erosion.
However, it is also recognized that the fenced areas around the
settlements often shelter abundant tree and other vegetative
growth, in contrast to the unprotected and often barren lands
around them, which further emphasizes the importance and urgency
of achieving reforms in landuse planning, agricultural land tenure
and land management.
3.6 PollutiOn
More generally, urban development without proper planning has
introduced a new set of environmental problems, including careless
disposal of wastes such as motor car wreckage and beer cans, air
pollution from the burning of coal and water pollution from the
disposal of wastes into rivers used as sources of drinking water.
Inadequate pit toilet systems in urban areas have become a health
hazard in spreading diseases. Industrial pollution is also a
growing problem. Industrialization is highly desirable for Lesotho,
but without proper planning and controls it will bring increased
risk of air and water pollution.
At present there are no effective arrangements in the country for
pollution regulation, setting of effluent standards, or monitoring
of compliance with them.



22
CHAPTER 4
EXISTING GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMMES
4.1 Introduction
Trhe intention of this chapter is to identify the principal
Government policies and programmes designed to address problems in
the environment-development nexus, which are already in place. This
involves not just conservation measures in the narrow sense, but
developmental policies which have a significant bearing on the
environment. To a large degree, these policies and programmes are
included in Lesotho's Fourth Five Year Development Plan. The
policies identified are to be related to the underlying causes of
environmental problems, particularly those identified Sections 1.4,
1.5, 3.1 and 3.2. above. The adequacy of these existing policies
and programmes is addressed in Chapters 5 and 6, where suggestions
are made about where reinforcement and/or additional measures are
required.
4.2 Acricultural Policies
The Government's agricultural policies are focussed on increasing
production and marketing of agricultural crops, livestock and
livestock products in a manner consistent with the conservation of
the land base. Specifically, in the Fourth Five Year Plan period
(1986/87-1990/91) Government plans to:
- train and educate households in the proper preparation,
preservation and storage of food;
- develop comprehensive watershed management programmes in
order to integrate water and soil conservation activities,
including soil rehabilitation through the use of improved
production techniques to expand output of both crops and
livestock;
- promote intensive livestock production' in the lowlands to
conserve the land resources necessary for crop and fodder
production;, and
-   encourage controlled grazing through the creation of
Grazing Associations, whose responsibility will be to prevent
overgrazing and improve rangelands and, hence, livestock
productivity.
Consistent with Government's general policy of decentralisation,
production and marketing programmes are being carried out at
district level. Recognising that it is only when communities have



t
23
been fully involved in planning and implementing measures that
rural development initiatives have proved successful, Government
is mounting at village level a programme of applied research
involving the "farming systems approach". Particularly in respect
of conservation, measures which build on familiar concepts and do
not require large inputs of cash, labour or land lost to
production, are intended to be carried out by the farmers. Such
modest approaches are believed to be more likely to prove effective
than more ambitious schemes which promise larger returns on paper,
but which have frequently failed in the past, due to a lack of
local support and involvement, and failure to produce adequate
benefits to the participants.
As a means of simultaneously increasing household incomes and
relieving pressure on the land arising from the conventional
cropping and livestock practices, a particular focus of policy in
the current Plan period is technical assistance with horticultural
crops and intensive livestock production, including poultry,
rabbits and fish.   The major thrust of this is to improve the
nutritional status of households with limited cash resources and
to this end the supporting education and extension work at the
district level will include advice on the preparation and storage
of these items for home consumption.   There will also be an
emphasis, however, on the development of local market facilities
and services in the districts, particularly to handle fresh
perishable produce such as milk, eggs, fruit and vegetables.
Taking this a stage further, where adequate channels to moff
season, northern markets can be established, production of exotic
"niche" crops such as asparagus, strawberries and snow peas will
be encouraged.
To facilitate these forms of production, Government is promoting
the development of irrigation where feasible, including farm ponds
for supplemental irrigation. In large commercial-oriented schemes,
investment costs will be shared if there is a clear public as well
as private benefit to be gained.   Government will also develop
drainage and other water control measures where necessary.
4.3 Land Use Policies
To meet the commercial cropping, livestock development and
environmental conservation objectives within the agricultural
sector, significant changes in land use practices are recognised
as being essential.   At one  level,  the policy issue is the
promotion of land use best suited to the climatic zone and soil
type. This will result in adapting some of the land now used for
the production of maize or sorghum to other crops or to fodder and
forage production for winter feed. Intensive livestock production
and stall feeding of cattle is being encouraged in the lowlands,
while range grazing should become increasingly limited to mountain
regions.



24
At a more profound level, the achievement of these changes requires
coming to grips with the historical and cultural role of land and.
land fights amongst the people.   During the Third Plan period
(1980/81-1984/,85), an attempt was made to do this through
legislative means, principally the 1979 Land Act and the 1980 Range
Management and Grazing Control Regulations. The current Plan is
forthright in admitting that, despite the years of experience now
gained, it has proved very difficult to effectively implement these
measures.
The Land Act of 1979 provides for long term security of tenure
under a lease system, where use rights are clearly defined and
protected.   Provisions of the Act empower Government to declare
certain areas as Selected Agricultural Areas in which only
specified agricultural activities can take place, thereby allowing
consolidation to provide economically viable units. Where these
are not being properly used, reallocation of land rights to
landless people interested in productive agriculture is possible
under the Act.
The intention in the present Plan period is to formalise existing
share and lease practices and to encourage private contractors with
the resources and willingness to farm to increase their
contribution to the farming sector. Optimum land use will be
promoted by providing incentives for land-holders who lack
resources necessary to farm effectively to enter into fixed period
lease and rental arrangements with contractors who will be able to
more efficiently expand commercial agricultural production.
Subleased  lands  will  be  consolidated  to  realize  important
production efficiencies needed to match higher incomes in the
non-farm sector. It is expected that implementation of this policy
will increase economic utilisation of existing fallow land,
increase yields on current crop land which is inefficiently used
and provide the basis for landless, male headed households to
engage in productive, income-producing crop agriculture. A higher
level of soil conservation practice will also be implemented as the
lands are brought into full production.
The purpose of the Range Management and Grazing Control
Regulations,  gazetted  in    1980,  was  to  control  grazing  on
rangelands and encourage destocking.   During the previous Plan
period, area-based projects which included grazing control, pasture
rotation and stock reduction, did not produce the required results
despite being backed by the 1980 Regulations.   The main reason
identified in the Plan. for this has to do with the social
organisation associated with the cattle posts. For effectiveness
of range use, there must be an intimate link between the villages
and the rangeland, whereas the present situation is one where the
cattle post rangelands are located away from those who control
them. Control lies not with a single village or group of villages
under a single headman, but with cattle-post owners and users from
different villages.



i
25
A major thrust of Government policy in the present Plan period is
the reorganisation of cattle posts. It is envisaged that this will
offer opportunities for the enforcement of the Grazing Control
Regulations, while encouraging villagers to collectivise their
interests to reduce stocking in an area where they all graze their
animals.   Policy is also oriented to strengthening livestock
associations, to improving livestock through better breeding and
to training herdboys in animal husbandry, vaccinating and culling
livestock.
To tackle overstocking directly, a grazing fee system is to be
enforced. It should have the effect of creating a cash need which
will induce farmers to market their stock.  To facilitate this,
assistance is to be given in developing slaughter and marketing
facilities.  The grazing fees collected will provide the income
base for District and Village Councils to make effective
decentralized planning and development. If the funds are used by
the Councils to improve the economic wellbeing of non-cattle owning
village residents, it will also be possible to move towards the
objective of restoring the equitable sharing of the benefits of
using the rangeland resource.
4.4 Soil Conservation. Forestry. Tree Planting and Manaaemnt
Since 1935, the approach adopted to arrest soil erosion has been
mainly structural, in the sense of the massive effort expended in
developing terraces, contour furrows, silt traps, diversions,
waterways and the construction of structures in dongas.   The
emphasis in Government policy is now shifting, however, to
biological conservation methods, applied with the socio-economic
context taken fully into account. Authors such as Greenfield (in
a paper presented at the Conference on Environment and Development
in Lesotho) have pointed out *conservation construction costs are
tremendous and, unfortunately, only provide temporary measures.
However, vegetative soil and water conservation measures are not
only extremely cheap (less than one tenth to one hundredth of the
cost of constructed banks and waterways), but the farmers can do
the work themselves.
In this regard, Government is giving special priority to the
development of tr6e planting and management to achieve conservation
and environmental protection objectives. Planting and managing of
trees is an integral part of overall production/conservation
programmes designed to increase both crop and livestock production
while maintaining, for posterity, a stable soil and water resource
base.   The emphasis is on achieving the necessary symbiotic
relationship between production objectives and conservation and
environmental objectives which are necessary to achieve voluntary
cooperation and involvement from rural residents affected by this
policy.



26
New  afforestation   sites   will   also   be   developed,   using
labour-intensive methods, to control erosion and encroaching-
tesertification.   During the Third Five Year Plan period,  all
planting, tending and harvesting of trees in local forests was
coordinated from Maseru Headquarters.   Local  communities were
encouraged to maintain an independent and direct interest in
planting, caring and harvesting of tree stands for community use
under advice from the Conservation Division.
During the current Plan period, the recently established Forestry
Division is expanding this programme.  The four major objectives
set are to:
* encourage individuals and communities to plant trees close
to where they are required;
- encourage planting of tree cover on marginal croplands to
provide natural windbreaks for cropland, stabilise grass lands
for pasture, and rehabilitate eroded areas for productive use;
- encourage the planting of tree cover to control the spread
of dongas; and
- develop, through effective extension education activities,
a positive attitude toward forest development.
'This expanded programme provides the basis for self-sustained and
continued growth of tree plantings, and of nurturing of young
trees, throughout the country under local initiative. The target
is to increase the afforested area from the present 10 thousand
hectares to 17,5 thousand hectares by 1990/91. Due to the multiple
objectives of government-directed planting in Forest Reserves, the
new programme requires a diversification of species so that trees
more appropriate to programme objectives are introduced to promote
'the social forestry concept.
4.5 Energy Policy
One of the main causes of the depletion of the biomass resource is
the excessive use of traditional fuels in open fires.   It is
estimated that &bout 1,2 million tonnes of biomass consisting of
wood, shrubs, dung and crop residues are being burnt in rural areas
'every year. Studies have revealed that, with the prevailing level
of consumption and reproduction, all indigenous firewood will have
/disappeared in the first decade of next century.
In response to this precarious situation, Government is seeking to
formulate and impleinent a consistent policy, which in particular
aims towards improving the energy situation in the rural areas and
reducing dependence on external energy supplies, especially



27
commercial energies.  The following strategies for achieving these
objectives are being pursued:
-   exploitation  of  resources  which  cause  little  or  no
environmental damage such as hydropower and renewable
energies;
- broadening of the supply base through the implementation
of afforestation programmes; and
- promotion of energy conservation in urban and rural areas.
Government emphasis is on alleviating the energy problems of the
majority of the people living in the rural areas.
4.6 Fauna. Flora and Historical Heritage
Government recognises that severe pressure on the land for human
use and the lack of adequate protection have militated against the
natural fauna and flora, while historical monuments and relics are
threatened, intentionally or unintentionally, with defacement. The
responsibility to maintain and enhance these resources has rested
with the Ministry of Agriculture.  However.   in view of the
inadequacy of the existing efforts, a review of the situation was
carried out and the resulting recommendations are incorporated in
this plan (see especially Section 6.5 below).
4.7 Other Areas of Existing Policy Affecting the Environment
There is a wide range of policies,  falling under a :..umber of
Government Ministries, which have a bearing on the environment, to
which only brief reference can be made in this document.
in respect of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, a preliminary
environmental impact survey has been carried out. The responsible
ministry is charged with ensuring that, at each stage in the
execution of the project, the environment will be taken fully into
account.
In the water sector generally, Government policy is to improve
conservation and utilisation practices, and ensure that clean
drinking water is made readily available to all communities.
In respect of mining and quarrying, it is Government policy to
reverse the previous practice of leaving open dikes which reduce
vegetation cover, promote soil erosion and diminish the aesthetic
appearance of the country. Similarly, greater attention is to be
paid to achieving proper drainage when road construction takes
place.



28
With regard to industry, Government is concerned about increased
air and water pollution, particularly near heavily populated areas.
The dumping of beer cans, scrap metal, and the wreckage of motor
cars is also to be addressed.



t
29
CHAPTER 5:
INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
5.1 A National Environmental Policy for Lesotho
The basic principles of Lesotho's environmental policy are:
1. To assure all people living in the country the fundamental
right to an environment adequate for their health and
well-being.
2. To use and conserve the environment and natural resources
of Lesotho for the benefit of both present and future
generations, taking into account the rate of population growth
and the productivity of the available resources.
3. To conserve the cultural heritage and use the environment
and natural resources of Lesotho for the benefit of both
present and future generations.
4. To mair ain stable functioning relations between the liv_uLg
and non-living parts of the environment through preserving
biological diversity and respecting the principle of optimum
sustainable yield in the use of natural resources.
5. To reclaim lost ecosystems where possible and reverse tne
degradation of natural resources.
6. To establish adequate environmental protection standards
and to monitor changes in and publish relevant data on,
environmental quality and resource use.
7. To require prior environmental assessments of proposed
activities which may significantly affect the environment or
use of a natural resource.
8. To ensure that environmental awareness is treated as an
integral part of education at all levels, and that this
knowledge is used in the planning and implementation of
development 'activities.
9. To ensure that the true and total costs of environmental
use and abuse are borne by the user, i.e., the "polluter pays'
principle.
It is necessary to -ecognise that the sustainable output of the
country's renewable natural resources will have to rise at a faster
rate than the rate of population increase if the objective of
improved living standards, on the basis of the country's natural



I
30
resources, is to be achieved.  Only by much better management of
these  resources,  improving  and  conserving  their  productive
potentials,  combined with the effective control of population
gTrowth, could this objective be achieved.
Strong participation of rural communities in formulating and
executing development programs is best secured by emphasizing to
them  that  lasting  plant-production  benefits   (rather  than
conservation benefits) are the primary aims of assistance programs.
Improvements in organic matter, soil structure and the volume of
plant materials in, on and above the soil promote increased output,
while   simultaneously   and   automatically   achieving   better
conservation of water and soil.  Another important principle is
that, to the extent possible, their problems should be tackled in
the order of priority which they consider important. Two further
principles are that, initially, people should be helped to do
better what they are already trying to do; and that initial
interventions should be guaranteed to be succ-.sful in showing
quick, perceptive and relevant benefits. The basic elements which
are needed are:
-    changes  in  agriculture  and  livestock  polices  and
programmes, particularly in respect of a substantially
improved extension service, to raise farmer incomes and
provide incentives for conservation measures to be adopted;
- effective changes in land tenure so as to make possible the
introduction of rational land-use planning at the local level;
-  measures to achieve reduction in the population growth
rate; and
- economic diversification and industrialization based as far
as possible on local resources and appropriate technologies;
As is clear from Chapter 3, many of these elements are already in
place in Government's existing policies and programmes.   It is,
]however, recognised that efforts in fields such as soil erosion
control, livestock management, wildlife conservation and land
tenure have been largely ineffective. The failures of previous
attempts to implement conservation policies have been due to lack
of co-ordination, lack of effective interdisciplinary approaches,
insufficient resources, failure to establish suitable institutional
structures, failure to incorporate the communities affected into
the planning and execution process and thereby to take cultural and
sociological factors into account, and finally resistance by vested
interests. It is with renewed determination that the country is
now seeking to overcome these obstacles.
One of the most visible forms that the changed approach will take



31
is in the establishment of new institutions to resolve conflicts
and to improve inter-ministerial coordination of environmental
policies; this is analysed in the next section.   Of the other
factors identified as requiring change, the one on which most
emphasis was placed during the Environment and Development
Conference was that of meaningful public participation.   In the
words of the pre-conference report of the Mokhotlong District:
"It has to be noted that it is only when the people are
consulted that they regard it as their duty to support all
national programmes.
"Public gatherings (pitsos) are an accepted convenient form
of consultation. But pitsos should be used to exchange views
and not to give orders.
"Implementing civil servants should be aware that the success
of government programmes or projects is in the hands of the
people, regardless of how good such projects are.   Early
peoples involvement is of paramount importance to ensure
success."
It is significant that Government policy documents now lay
considerable emphasis on working closely with the people
specifically in the manner recommended in the Mokhotlong document.
5.2 Institution Building
As has also been the experience in other countries, many of the
difficulties that Lesotho has encountered in dealing with
environmental problems have arisen because of the multi-sectoral
nature of those problems and hence the cross-cutting ministerial
responsibilities in the implementation of policies.
Conflicts about environmental matters arise from jurisdiction over
land and water resources, competitive uses
of the environment, differing priorities and time tables for
environmental activities, and allocation of budgets.
The  need  for  a  more  forceful  and  early  articulation  of
environmental concerns in planning and policy-making is required,
as well as improved coordination in the implementation of policies.



32
Fi g. 2        InsLiLuLiorial Fram ewor-k for In LegrtLirg ELivirunierin La 1
Coruerris into  EuIOnuiLLic Development
So )ur;uil or MullisLe,i
2    NaLion LalE  ison ixe¢ Lh ii,      i |
M1rs. u M tit  uf  OUiej   .in   r         im]. ul          _       Ernx i siruilt'i Li.1 AL is--
IruttJs i   Agr iz.    TMHnth    Platu nizlg               UL' Cu-ia ai a    Le
ISctii   |   pPulluLlun  |
Curi,s.      Rglaiul             ,      --EIA & bitir|
, 19iFW  s,- eroizrs    |
q ErlrtLior L| U
Liaistur} *8i Uh ijiLes -
_rikilSioruil w4exiietS aIid



33
Government is organized into units by sectors, but environmental
considerations cut across all sectors. Consequently, a major-
objective of this framework is to provide the necessary inter-
sectoral integration and coordination.
Government does not believe that the creation of a Ministry of the
Environment is a useful response to this need.  Such a Ministry
might accentuate the tendency for environmental issues to be
thought of as being separate from wider issues of economic and
social  development.    Instead,  the  formation  of  a  National
Environmental Council (NEC) is proposed, to make policy and
coordinate the activities of government ministries at central and
local level, NGO's, the private sector and District and Village
Councils.
The NEC is to be an independant body from Government's operational
ministries. To give it the necessary authority, however, the NEC
should be at the ministerial level. Within the line ministries, to
ensure that environmental concerns are more fully integrated into
routine work, it is further proposed that there should be an
environmental  officer  in  every  sector,  or,  in  the  larger
ministries, an environmental unit. Working within the framework
of environmental policy and the guidance of the NEC, these units
would have the responsibility of ensuring that all sectoral
programmes take environmental elements fully into account.
While in some cases environmental goals compete with other national
goals and objectives, in most cases environmental considerations
are complementary to and provide important support for other
governmental objectives. Indeed, environmental factors cut across
the sectoral governmental missions and can provide the conditions
necessary for their sustained success. Governmental organization
must be based on this relationship and must foster it. Therefore,
the functions of the new environmental institutional framework
include:
- coordination of agencies and governmental actions at all
levels;
- communication and liaison;
-  conflict resolution and national trade offs;
- education and public information;
- environmental impact assessment;
- advice to economic development policy planning and
management; and
- monitoring of environmental quality.



34
At the local level, democratic participation and control should be
assured by a meaningful degree of decentralisation to District,
Ward and Village Councils.   It is intended, first, that these
councils become local authorities with executive powers over issues
of development and conservation, and second, that this will be
backed by diverting technical and financial resources to the rural
areas. A vastly expanded rural development extension service is
to be the primary mechanism through which such support is to be
effected. Chiefs will continue to play a central role both through
their ex-officio chairmanship of the councils, as well as their
traditional roles in mobilising the people for community action.
In summary, it is a three-tier structure which is envisaged for
implementing the National Environmental Action Plan:
- at the national level, the National Environmental Council
(NEC) which makes policy, resolves conflicts and directs
the Secretariat;
- environment units within government ministries; and
-   at the  local  level,  District,  Ward  and Village
Development Committees.
Fig.2 diagrams the new organizational framework in a general way
with particulars of staffing and procedures left to be worked out
as appropriate. The NEC is seen to be a sub-unit of the Council
of Ministers. Its members are those-Ministers most concerned with
environment and natural resources and its Chairman is chosen from
that group.   A Non-Government Environmental Advisory Committee
(NGEAC) is appointed by the NEC Chairman. Its members are chosen
on basis of their own wisdom but also to assure inputs from
District Development Councils, chiefs, the University, private
sector and NGOs. A NEC Secretariat (NECS) serves both the NEC and
the NGEAC.   It is located, in the Ministry of Planning for
efficiency in integrating environmental concerns into the
development process.
5.3  Functions of the NEC Secretariat (NECSI
The main functions of the NECS are to serve the NEC to:
- facilitate the resolution of conflicts among agencies as
to the use of environmental resources and assist the trade
offs among competing national goals
- develop programmes and strategies at all levels to educate
and make the public aware and conscious of environmental
problems, their causes and their critical impacts on prospects
for economic growth, as well as measures required to redress



35
(where possible) the degradation of natural resources and the
preservation of the nation's historical and cultural heritage;
- coordinate environmental units in line ministries as to
policy and strategy formulation and implementation in all
sectors;
- ensure that the environment is treated as an integral part
of the planning process including future national Five Year
Development Plans
- recognize the role of women in relation to environmental
management and foster their custodianship
- monitor the actions of donor agencies, NGO's, the private
sector, and private groups in the design and implementation
of projects which have an impact on the environment;
- require and take responsibility for prior environmental
assessments of proposed activities which may significantly
affect the environment or use of a natural resource;
-   develop guidelines. for consideration of environmental
aspects in designing all development programmes and projects
by both Government agencies and the private sector;
- review environmental legislation, identify shortcomings and
make recommendations to the responsible authorities for
improvements and more effective enforcement; and
- serve the NGEAC and facilitate its activities.
Additional responsibilities will be assumed once the NECS is
operational, one suggestion being the annual publication of a
comprehensive review of the *State of the Environment in Lesotho".
The NECS is to be given a statutory mandate and authority to
communicate directly with any unit of government on environmental
matters.
It is to be stressed that the execution of programmes targeted to
address specific environmental problems (as detailed in Chapter 6)
will remain the primary responsibility of the operational
ministries, with the NEC being created to play a coordinating role.
The above list of responsibilities of the NECS also includes a
number of items of a more general nature which together constituted
a policy framework on the environment. These items are discussed
in more detail in the remaining sections of this chapter, the
emphasis being on actions that are required to be taken by NECS
itself, as well as operational ministries, to make the overall
national environmental policy effective as soon as possible.



36
5.4 The Non-Governmental Environmental Advisory Committee
The participation of many non-government groups in implementing
this National Environmental Action Plan is essential. A statutory
basis will be given to the Non-Governmental Environmental Advisory
Commit.ee (NGEAC) in order to assure an official and continuing
mechanism for gathering t e ideas and opinions of a wide variety
of Lesotho interests.  Members of the NGEAC will be appointed by
the Chairman of the LiEC and will include representatives of the
chief s, local development councils, the university community,
NGO's, and the private sector. The NEC Secretariat will facilitate
the activities of the NGEAC which will be given the mandate to
initiate proposals as well as to respond to governmental policies
and programs.
5.5 Environmental Education and Awareness
Environmental  education  and awareness  are fundamental  to the
implementation of environmental activities and sustainable use of
renewable resources.  This entails putting in place the various
means necessary for providing skills and knowledge continuously to
the  many  categories  of  people  involved  in  implementing
environmental programmes. What is needed now is to create a
programme of on-going education and mobilize information to the
people for development and sound use of natural resources. All age
groups should be inciuded: adults through pitsos, group meetings,
literacy campaign materials, radio and newspaper articles; younger
people through the more extensive inclusion of environment and
development issues in school curricula, this being supported by
school community-oriented conservation activities.
5.6   National Planning. Economic Diversification,  and Environ-
mental Managesent
A successful development strategy for the future of Lesotho will
be nne that restores and sustains the renewable natural resources
on which the economy so much depends.
To-day we are witneseing a vicious circle of population pressure,
poverty, food deficit and degradation of the environment. Faced
with immediate needs and lack of resources (land, capital, skills)
the urban and rural poor often can not afford to invest in
technological solutions for long-term conservation measures.
The  National   Planning  process   will   therefore   seek  the
complementarities between strategies to help the poor and the small
farmers, promote sound environmental management, and contribute to
sustainable development. In the long term the promotion of economic
development, protection of the environment and alleviation of



37
pO\
In            iULutuil1y suppurLive ubjecLives.
Coy
a           bxui, however, Lltese ubjecLives nmay nioL always  be
Co         Li euuvfliutjzig choices may tarise. If such siLuatioiss
be          .iunal aiid esnvironliuentLil planning  that uarefully
be         .uplieaioins of alLernaLive sLraLegies will frmli the
decisiOlns taIt will provide for Lxe most appropriate
I.
w
e         I ule governument will build on the experience wiLh the
agemetiLs upproauc  to L IenIsur-e thie full intLegrationi  of
uonsiderlaLiuis inuludinig ntuLurzl resource naLngemtent
u-ecutonomial plannsilng. Moreover-, isector platis will be
atid consisLency sougtL beLween naLional policieu ansd
.1 mialnagementL tuLiours aL  the  inational, diuLriuL tntd
Lion and land capability exeriises are Lo be uarried out
niLry. These guide nioL oily Lhe direct use or naLural
buL aluo Ltle direLioun of populatiou policy for runding
balansue betweeni populaLion and resourue use.
promising fouidatLioni on whiclh Lthe NEC should aLLempL Lo
recL assisLance Lo Lhe Ministry or Planninig and planninlg
.hin operaLional minisLtries could usefully Lake Lhe form
NEC  arranging  ror enivironmental  training  courses  for
ta Lfrr.
sihould make  its voiue heard in  Lhe debate oni ways of
is       :ig ecuIonomic 'diversification whic:h, directly or indiretLly,
duce ps-sure on Lthe  Land auid oLther natural resources. In
are     onLexL, iL is  Lo be noLed. thaL  Lhe nattional prioriLy  or
ing enxviontimentLl qualiLy, means Lhat wherever possible, new
irises  wiiuch  are  complemenLary  to  Lhe  rural  developmenL
.i i e. which eiLher supply items neededL as inipuLs Lo Lhe rutral
auy, or which usie agriculLural ouLtpult  a raw mILterials, should
.uouruged.
POPULATION POLICY ISSUES
rapid growLh Or populaLioni         L o    in iLself an enivir-nmeilal
Alem, buL is a furidatmental undierlying cause or the pressure ont
ources, whiuh, in  Lurn, is resulLirng  in  inc:reasingly  severe
i sronmet tal  ldegrada Lilon .  Al Lhough  lhe  cuu tLry '5  populaLion
.wth raLe ir 2.7 percentL per annum is noL as high an  in many
her Ar-ican, countrLies, Lhe limiLed latnd base and oLher resources
*e nuL. enouhtt Lo cupe wiLh Lhe raLe or growLh, and it is highly
Alikely thLa agriculLural production c:anr e sLepped up t. a level
haL ':aga sustain  the growirig populuLion.  The general eco:numic
iouwLt  rate or Llte countLry is also noL able Lt  keep pace wiLh
pupulatiuro growLth, resulLing ini nioL ouily less food per capiLt but
alsu fewei jub-opporLunities ror pLentLial jub seekers.



38
demographic structure of the population and limited land base in
Lesotho make it imperative that non-farm jobs continue to be
created in sufficient number to ensure a steady increase in living
standards for the rural population.
It is therefore prudent also to consider other factors which may
be effective in putting the country on to a sustainable development
path. But such strategies must not lose sight of the reduction in
the population growth rate as a pre-requisite.
Furthermore, if the population growth rate remains unchecked, the
scarce available resources will be utilized mainly in seeking to
satisfy the most basic needs insteaa of providing for improvements
in the standards of living and economic development.
Since population growth is a factor of fertility and mortality,
consideration of population issues should especially include
fertility, which affects the health status of both mothers and
children and their chances of survival, and sustainance of quality
of life.
At the Environment and Development Conference, it was evident that
niot all of the representatives from the rural areas shared this
perception of the implications of the present rate of population
growth. Some participants seemed to assume that economic growth can
readily be adapted to accommodate any increase in number of
Job-seekers in non-agricultural employment, while the measures
identified to restore the land and revitalise agriculture will
serve to increase standards of living in the rural areas.   The
contrary view is based on a realistic appraisal of the extent of
environmental degradation and the very limited prospects for rapid
growth occurring in other sectors, even if optimistic assumptions
are made about Lesotho's relations with the outside world. In view
of this difference of opinion, policy making in this area needs to
be given careful attention.
The Ministry of Health is of the opinion that a coordinating
council for all population activities should be established. The
NEC could well take the lead in bringing this about. Besides the
Ministry of Health and NGO's such as the Lesotho Planned Parenthood
Association (LPPA), the initial membership should include the
Ministries of Agriculture; Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and
Rural Development; Youth and Women's Affairs; Employment, Social
Security and Pensions; Education; Planning, Economic Affairs and
Manpower Development.



39
5.8 Special Needs of Women
The women of Lesotho face the special problems engendered by the
unusually righ proportion of men working in South Africa. When the
men return on leave, they do not wish to be working, and thus make
less of a contribution to the development of their home areas than
the women feel they should and the country urgently requires.
Women's continued legal status as minors has negative results in
terms of the decisions which need to be taken to develop the
country, but which tend to be delayed until the men return to give
their consent.
In view of the wide ranging implications of the cultural and social
attitude to women not only for the women themselves but for the
society as a whole, it is recommended that the NEC tork towards the
strengthening of Government and non-government agencies working
with and for women. Despite the advances that have been made and
the number of women who now hold significant positions of
responsibility,   the  NEC   should   consider  commissioning  a
comprehensive study to examine and recommend on changes in legal
and institutional st:uctures which would bring about more
widespread changes in the, lot of women while being accepted by men.
In particular, land tenure rights for women should be scrutinised,
in view of the bearing this issue has on development and the
environment.
5.9  Involvement of Non-Government Organisations
It is widely recognised that in rural development and conservation
of natural resources, NGOs can play an extremely important
complementary role to that of central and local government.  In
particular, people's organisations, reflecting their own felt
needs, such as farmers' groups, workers' organisations, women's
groups, adult education groups and business peoples' organisations
have been and will continue to be the focal points for action on
the ground. In addition, all other development oriented voluntary
organisations should also be encouraged. The NEC should play an
active role in mobilizing and working with all these NGO's,
particularly in the NGEAC. The NEC should:
a) explore the potential role of NGO's in the implementation
of environmental programmes;
b) draw upon the experience and expertise of NGO's to develop
the skills needed for environmental activities at local level;
c) gain the ability of NGO's to use participatory approaches;
and
d) identify the constraints and opportunities and provide for
the incentives necessary to make NGO's more effective.



40
5.10 Environmental Impact Assessments
While there are some "informal" environmental impact assessment
(EIA) methodologies currently practiced, the Highlands Water
Project is the first project in Lesotho to havc been subjected to
a specified, explicit EIA process. This large project adds to the
urgency for creating a new environmental institution. It is
recommended that a formal requirement be established to ensure that
EIA becomes an integral component of all economic feasibility
stuadies of projects which will have a significant effect on the
environment. The responsibility for seeing that EIAs are conducted
satisfactorily should be assumed by the NECS, while the national
institutions which are to carry out such investigations should be
strengthened. For projects and programmes where a formal EIA would
not be justified, NECS should nonetheless ensure that environmental
factors have been adequately taken into account. EIA should not
be regarded as delaying or diverting development; indeed this
assessment information often reveals new opportunities for economic
growth  while  protecting  the  renewable  resource  base  and
environmental quality.
5.11 Environmental Legislation
While there is a series of existing laws relating to the
environment (Annex 1), these have developed individually over the
past century in response to specific perceived needs. Consequently,
there is some degree of overlap and inconsistency, and there are
many areas of environmental concern which are not addressed by
existing laws. In order to deal effectively with the environmental
and natural resource issues facing Lesotho today, the nation
requires a comprehensive environmental legislative framework.
The NEC should initiate a comprehensive review of the legal needs
of the nation for environmental management and protection, and on
the basis of that, develop a comprehensive framework of
environmental legislation.  The first step would be to carry out
a national inventory of existing legislative texts, including
regulations, and the administrative machinery in force, making a
checklist  and  matrix  for  the  classification  of  all  the
sub-categories of environmental and natural resource related law.
This should be followed by a careful study of the problem areas
identified on a case by case basis, with a view to identifying and
filling n.n gaps, removing overlapping and conflicting provisions
and updating the laws to respond to the socXo-economic needs of the
present and the future.   Laws  should be designed to promote
sustainable use of natural resources, rather than just seekina to
cffset damage already done to the environment.  it should be
recognized that many laws impact the environment, even though they
do not specifically address environment- or resources.
Following from this, the enactment of a "framework" or "umbrella"



421
law will be necessary. Such a law would, inter alia:
- provide a legal basis for the NEC, NECS and NGEAC, particularly
assuring adequate authority for the needed coordination functions.
- identify the objectives of the legislation
-   specify the  institutional  framework  for the  formulation,
implementation and monitoring of environmental legislation and
regulations frame thereunder
- include provisions for the delegation of rule-making powers to
local authorities
- contain provisions regarding the enforcement of legislation and
regulations, including penalties for non-compliance
- set out procedures for the approval of any activity which may
be deemed to have an environmental impact
It must be stressed, however, that although legislation is
necessary, it is neither a panacea nor sufficient of itself to
create and sustain environmentally sound plans, projects and
national development. The success of any legislation depends on
its implementation. Such implementation, in turn, depends both on
an effective governmental structure and most particularly, on the
public's  acceptance,   which  is- the  consequence  of  their
participation and the realization that the legislation reflects
people's needs and aspirations.



42
CHAPTER 6
SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS
6.1:  Reclamation and Sustainable use of Rangeland
6.1.1 Existing Policy Elements
The main agreed policy objective for livestock and rangeland
management (see section 4.2 and 4.3) are the following:
1.   To enhance resource management through:
- the development of an appropriate structure of economic
incentives;
-   the development  of Grazing Associations  and the
reinforcement of existing institutions;
-   the  implementation  of  the  National  Adjudication
Programme.
2.   To improve livestock productivity through:
- the promotion of intensive livestock production in the
lowlands;
- the promotion of extensive livestock production in the
highlands;
- the education in better management practices of farmers,
herdboys and animal production extension officers;
-  the promotion of appropriate stocking levels.
3.   To _n,orove livestock rmarketing through:
-  tile involvemen. of t.±e private sector in marketing and
a.ncillIary operations;
-  the greater frequency and reliability of sales;
- strengthening of marketing organization, including the
development of export channels for livestock products.
4.   To facilitate the development of other investment and
employment opportunities in the rural economy.
Each of these policy objectives recognises and responds to the
underlying causes of range degradation discussed in 3.1.1.



43
6.1.2  Action recuired to meet these obiectives
The specific actions required to meet each of these policy
objoctives should include the following;
A. Stockinc Rates:
Overstocking  is  currently  the  greatest  single  source  of
environmental concern in Lesotho. It also impinges on every aspect
of rural development.
Since available rangeland is currently being reduced through the
commitmcnt of land to other uses such as woodlots, village
expansion, cropland, and dams, without any concomitant reduction
in livestock numbers, the problem will get worse before it gets
better.
The solution to overstocking will require the coordinated effort
of all the Divisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as
government ministries.  It is recommended that additional effort
be given to improving such coordination in the terms of reference
drawn up for the NEC, and to reach agreement with donors on a
coordinated approach to achieve the above programme.
Since a reduction in stocking levels will mean some reallocation
of resources from the Livestock section, it is important that a
broad based approach be adopted to the creation of alternative
opoortunities, whether in the highlands or elsewhere in Lesotho.
The Ranage Management Division should set target stocking rates and
livesto:k management programmes, on an area by area basis, in
ccriunctn w .th Chieftainship Affairs in the Ministry of the
Intcr-or, and after full local consultation.   These should be
sub-1ct uc periodic review, and should provide basic data for
&,Ltions to achieve esch of the policy objectives.
S. Enhanced Resource Management
The Ministries of Agriculture and the Interior should jointlv
*~r^i._:e and administer a system of grazing fees.  Initially, a
:ied ga=azing fee (for large and small grazing animal respectively)
shou; be levied on livestock owners, to encourage them to take
account of the costs of grazing communally owned lands. The funds
cenerated should be collected by the Village Development Councils
and used for local development projects, for the maintenance of
existing   livestock   development   facilities,   and   for   the
administrative costs of the programme.
2.   The Range Management division should implement a procedure of
on-going consultation with District Development Councils, chiefs
and farmars/livestock owners to include them in the analysis of



44
rangeland conditions and the development of the new programmes.
3.   The Range Management and Animal Production Divisions should
give priority to forming Grazing Associations to administer the
Range Management Areas, to undertake improved range and livestock
management programmes, and to develop marketing facilities.
Wherever possible Association should be established on contiguous
blocks.
4.    The Range Management Division should, with Chieftainship
Affairs, implement a National Range Adjudication programme designed
to inventory and recommend changes that should enhance the
management of grazing areas.  This will be in consultation with
principal chiefs, village chiefs and livestock owners.
5.   Transhumance movements should be studied and efforts made to
phase it out whenever this will lead to improvements in range
management.
6.   In addition to the above, the full structure of agricultural
incentives should be studied with a view to identifying those
incentives which have beneficial or harmful effects on livestock
and range management practices, to enable corrective measures to
be taken where necessary.
7.    The cost of animal draft is implicitly subsidized by the
communal land tenure system. Financial incentives should be offered
to develop alternative means of draft power, such incentives
in=lude the early termination of grazing fee examinations.
C. Improved Trainina and Extension:
1. The Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with the Ministry
cf Education should further develop and implement effective and
innovative public education measures, including radic broadcasts
arz4 changes in the school curricula, to deal with impromved
livestock and range management as well as the more general question
of the health of the rural environment.
2.   Given the limited human and financial resources available to
the government, the Ministry of Agriculture should fix priorities
. the allocation and training of extension officers. Highest
priority should.be given to these areas with greatest development
potential, and of significant environmental concern. This implies
that livestock extension staff,  and other appropriate groups,
should receive additional specialised training and be offered
stronger technical and logistic support.
3.   The Animal Production Division should provide specialised
training programmes and extension services to livestock owners to
give them the necessary expertise to carry out the improvements in
the livestock management referred to,--and to educate farmers on the
use of trees for both fodder and soil conservation purposes.



45
4.   To meet its long term training requirene Department
of Livestock Service should continue to makethe services
offered  by  regional  and  overseas   traied  research
institutions.
5.    The veterinary division of the Depar,f Livestock
Services should expand veterinary services to p3ach district
with  an  adequately  manned  veterinary  clirximal  health
monitoring at all border posts should be impro
D. Improved Livestock Marketina:
1.   The development of livestock marketing in L is neCe8sary
to reduce overstocking. This is currently inh, by the vC*Y
high transaction costs that result from cumbersor,bureaUcratIc
sale procedures. These procedures should be stread as a matter
of urgency by the LPMS working the LMP.
2.   Tax incentives should be offered to encourhe return Of
private agents to marketing of livestock in Lesc
3.   A national livestock marketing informatiodio projl
should be introduced to stimulate increased offta1 the national
herd and flocks.
4.   The Department of Livestock Services shouldpand saleyard
facilities and improve transport capacities.
5.   In order to increase offtake it will be nesarY to open
export channels.  The existing facilities of the Nioual Abatto
and Feedlot Complex should be upgraded and certifi. for export to
international markets. Other market outlets should,e used for th
export of live animals.
6.   The imprcved marketing systems and procedurcs say initideY
require special measures to achieve the needed initial d8stockingi
but these should not be put in place on their own. TheY must  o
undertaken as part of a package of incentives/disincentive to
assure that stocking rates remain at the intended lower levels_ The
recotimendations of the Livestock Marketing task force (l987)r suCh
as increasing support to local traders, ensuring availabilitY °
baheisi forms etc, should be implemented. ohn import embargO may
also be needed.
Long term measures need also to be considered to provide marketing
in.centives (financial and institutional)  for maintai irg lowes
numbers of more economically profitable animals.  Other polici
to achieve the same objective should also be investigated e-o-
reinforcement of the provision of tractors for ploughing in the
lowlands, assistance in achieving increased yields of milk and the
subsequent marketing of dairy products etc. Some of these may
require more active collaboration with the private sector.



46
7.   Provide alternative investment channels to encourage those
with cash to put their money outside livestock.
8. Develop alternative employment for herdboys and others affected
by reduced stocking rates.
6.2 Enhancing Soil Fertility and Productivity on Croplands
6.2.1  Existino Policy Elements
The main policy elements already in place (see Sections 4.2 and
4.3) are to:
- adapt land unsuited, but now being used, for cropping of
maize and sorghum, to other crops, including fodder crops, or
for grazing or for trees;
- encourage lease arrangements on croplanrs, where lessors
have the knowledge, resources and commitment to safeguard and
enhance the fertility of the soil;
- promote improved production techniques for all crops, but
particularly in respect of intensive horticultural production;
- establish irrigation facilities at locations where these
can make a significant contribution to increased output;
-  increase access to credit, for example, through Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank, to provide the finance for the
above.
6.2.2 Action Reguireq
Reinforcing, or in some cases qualifying, this set of policies,
the  following  action  points,  having  direct  relevance  to
environmental issues, should be added:
1. Improve procedures for on-going consultations with the District
and Village Development Councils, chiefs and farmers, to assure
that they are directly involved in analysing the problems and
developing and implementing the needed actions.
2. Encourage the replenishment of soil fertility with dung and
plant residue.
3. Adopt a land tenure framework and leasing arrangements which
encourage land improvements rather than degradation, and maintain
the ownership of such lands in the interests of equity



47
4.  Base recommendations of crop suitabilit-es on the research
undertaken at local level
5.    Express  Lesotho-tested  research  in  a  form  that  is
understandable by land users
6. Expand on the existing community monitoring system for yields.
7. Conduct research into agro-forestry systems, tree planting and
use of indigenous tree species.
8.   Develop a consistent approach to agricultural development
within government and between government and donors, having regard
to the nature, social and economic structure of Lesotho's farming
communities.
9.   Develop  a consistent  approach  to  subsidies,  prices  and
marketing infrastructure to encourage raised production and the
maintenance of soil fertility. Government policy should continue
to ensure that the returns received by basotho farmers for their
products appropriately reflect market based prices.
10.  Make tree planting and management an integral part of all
extension and support services to farmers.
6.3 Overcoming Energy Scarcity
6.3.1 Existing Policy Elements
The main policy elements already in place (see Sections 4.4 and
4.5) are to:
-    exploit  energy  sources  which  cause  little  or  no
environmental damage, such as hydropower and renewable
energies;
-  broaden the supply base through afforestation;
- promote energy conservation in urban and rural areas.
5.3.2  Action Required
Reirforc-ng this set of policies, the following action points,
having direct relevance to environmental issues, should be added:
1.   Expand resources available to the Forestry Division to achieve
a far more rapid rate of coverage of the country. Encourage the
plaating of trees on buffer strips, around homes and schools, along
roads and in dongas.   Educate people about the importance of
returning nutrients to the soil and therefore of using firewood in
preference to dung or crop residues as fuel.



48
2.   Research and development of alternative energy techinologies
for dissemination to rural and low income households and finance
the adoption of promising options, such as biogas digesters, solar
water heaters and efficient stoves.
3.   Introduce energy conservation measures and improve awareness
amlong domestic and industrial users.
4.   Where possible and economically justified, introduce rural
electrification through extensions of the grid or mini-hydro
schemes.
5.   To achieve the above, manpower training programmes will be
required as well as improved coordination between Ministries,
particularly Water and Energy, Agriculture and Industry and NGO's.
6.4  Achieving Afforestation
6.4.1 Existing Policy Elements
The main policy elements already in place (see Sections 4.4) are
to:
-   coordinate  tree  planting  and  afforestation   at the
community level;
-   encourage tree planting that is closely tied to soil
conservation (e.g., trees for windbreaks on marginal
croplands, in dongas, etc);
6.4.2 Action Required
Reinforcing, or in some cases qualifying, this set of policies,
the  following  action  points,   having  direct  relevance  to
environmental issues, should be added:
1. The government budget allocation should increasingly be used
to encourage the direct participation of rural communities in the
planting, tending and harvesting of trees to rehabilitate degraded
land and provide fuel wood and other wood products. To accomplish
this, a greater proportion of the budget should be used to provide
forestry extension services to rural residents and to expand
government nurseries to provide tree stock for distribution and
planting by local communities.
2. Mobilise communities for tree planting campaigns, not only in
woodlots but on buffer strips, around-homes and schools, along
roads and in dongas.   Ensure that planting is followed up with
adequate nurturing of the young trees.



49
3. Place considerable emphasis on tree planting as wind breaks on
crop land and on hillsides to reduce soil erosion and along river
banks and dongas to stabilize ecologically vulnerable soil
conditions.   The preferred implementation strategy is to work
closely with community leaders and village residents and involve
them directly with tree planting and community forest development
initiatives.   Pilot projects should be initiated to introduce
multi-purpose tree varieties for use as grazing and soil protection
along with continued emphasis on plating of community forests to
provide fuel wood and other wood products which can also encourage
the use of dung and crop residues to recondition and stabilize
cropland soils.
4.   Ascertain the ecological suitability of exotic species in
different parts of the country, while seeking to use indigenous
species wherever possible.
5.   Inculcate the concept of family and community forestry by
adapting practices successfully followed in other countries such
as Israel,  China and Japan which encourage tree planting to
commemorate family events. Building on local customs, traditional
initiation schools should include as part of their final ceremony
the planting of trees for the community woodlot or forest. it is
suggested that a minimum of 1,000 trees be planted annually by each
initiation school in this manner with trees supplied by the
Forestry Division of the MOA.
6. Formulate a comprehensive National Forestry Policy.
6.5 P02RIAtion Considerations
Lesotho does not have a formal population policy at present, nor
governmental structure for dealing with population issues outside
of the Ministry of Health. As described in section 5.7 above, the
NEC should, as a matter of priority, take the lead in achieving
implementation of the Ministry of Health's recommendations to
establish a Population Council. This Council would coordinate the
country's population activities, and initially it should consider
the following list of specific action points:
1. While recognising the high value placed by society on children,
the Government needs to put strong political backing to the
formulation of a population policy.
2. An extensive programme of family planning education, involving
rural health workers, the schools and the media, should be
launched. Building on the awareness generated by the Environment
and Development Conference, these programmes should present
economic as well as health reasons for family planning.
Encouragement should be given to going beyond prolonged spacing



50
between children to planning to have smaller families.   Groups
skeptical about family planning, including the church, should be
encouraged to change their position on birth control measures.
3.   A national forum,  involving all the districts as well as
Government agencies and all interested parties, should be called
to discuss and agree on a National Population Policy. This would
have to be clearly oriented towards the people and not be addressed
to the "external" community, as has tended to be the case in the
past.
4.  Family planning is already an integral part of Ministry of
HeaLlth services. One of the chief constraints at present, however,
is a severe staff shortage to train health workers, not only in
famiily planning but all aspects of family health. Once staff has
been made available, established training procedures can rapidly
be put into effect.
5.   The Council  should  undertake  a  survey of projects  and
programmes which support the implementation of population policies,
with a view to supporting relevant projects and programmes.
6. For women, family planning should continue to be provided as
an integral part of maternal and child health services. Special
programmes geared at men, including mineworkers, should be
developed, with education possibly being combined with community
based distribution of condoms.   Such a programme would also be
justified on grounds of containing sexually transmitted diseases.
7.  The importance of women's groups to promote family planning
should be recognised.
6.6 Maintaining and Enhancing Biological Diversity and Protecting
BiAltorical Monuments and Relics
The government agency responsible, the Ministry of Agriculture,
intends during the current Plan period to develop Thaba-Bosiu,
Sehlabathebe National Park, parts of Qeme Plateau and Ongeluksneck
and several sites having bushman paintings and dinosaur footprints
(see Sections 4.6).
Government is aware of the urgent need for reinforcement of its
capabilities in this area.  The following points are highlighted
for action:
1.   Institute surveys and inventory-taking by experts of the
current status of the natural and cultural heritage of Lesotho.
Particular attention should be paid to threatened species and to
the question of the reintroduction of indigenous species now
extinct in the Kingdom. Areas which could become national parks
should be identified, particularly those which would encompass both



51
threatened plant species and historical relics or monuments.
2.   Immediately secure all currently gazetted areas and sites
through the deployment of wardens or guards as appropriate.
Subsequently increase the protective forces and equipment to meet
the security requirements of all conservation areas and sites
resulting from the recommendations of the surveys of the previous
paragraph.
3. Enact the proposed conservation legislation, the *Lesotho
National Parks and Nature Conservation Act", which was drafted in
October 1978 by the National Parks Administration in cooperation
with the subcommittee on legislation of the National Parks Advisory
Committee.    Secure wildlife  areas by  law.    Revise the  law
(Proclamation No.36 of 1969) protecting historical monuments and
relics.
Devise instruments for implementing existing legal regulations to
ensure that the instruments are effective.  Examples here would
include renewable use of some plants for medicinal purposes by
doctors and penalty charges to anyone who destroys or mutilates,
in any form, biological species which have been classified as
endangered. The list of such species must be made widely known
throughout the country.
4. Implement a training programme for present and future wardens
and rangers. An experienced wildlife warden/ administrator should
be recruited internationally to work with the Directorate for a
reasonable period.
5. Initiate an educational programme to enhance public relations
and raise public awareness. The status of wildlife, etc., as an
essential part of national and international heritage should be
emphasized, particularly in school curricula. Extension officers
should be deployed in each district to promote public awareness
and education on an on-going basis.
6. The development sector in which economic returns are most
directly dependent on the quality of the environment is tourism.
Consequently, the Wildlife Conservation section of the Ministry of
Agriculture should be relocated to the Ministry of Tourism and the
name of the Ministry should be changed to Ministry of Tourism,
Wildlife, Sports and Culture.
7. Establish a Biological Research Institute to work in liaison
with existing national and international research centres.
6.7 Countering Soil Erosion
As mentioned in Section 4.4, the emphasis in soil conservation
policy has shifted from structural to biological control measures.



52
Most of the policy measures and action points identified in
Sections 6.1 to 6.5 have a bearing on countering soil erosion. The
points below serve to summarise and reinforce the main actions
required:
1.   Implement the actions listed for range improvement, increasing
soil fertility, overcoming energy scarcity and increasing the
growth of tree and other plant species in particular those aimed
at:
-    reducing overgrazing;
-    increasing vegetation cover;
-    planting trees, particularly in catchment areas and on
bare hills;
-    enhancing the variety of indigenous plent life;
-    restoring the fertility and regenerative capabilities fo
the soil.
2. Obtain statistically reliable quantitative data on the
status quo concerning the above areas, and identify and examine
a;Lternative action proposals. Special encouragement should be given
to measures which have multiple benefits such as intercropping,
stall-feeding of lowland livestock etc.
3.   Where beneficial,  implement -structural measures to arrest
specific incidences of soil erosion, e.g. filling in of dongas in
certain areas where this could obviate widespread further erosion;
tthe building of terraces, water diversions, waterways, etc.
4.   Encourage the more extensive adoption of conservation tillage
techniques.
5.   Encourage the proper management of eroded fields and marginal
lands, e.g., through planting of perennial fodder and trees.
6.   Involve people at the grass roots i.e. at the level of land
users in the making of decisions on what anti-erosion measures they
deem appropriate and in the implementation of those measures. In
particular, this should involve:
-    pitsos for decision making
-    matsema for implementation
7.   Discourage the cutting of shrubs and trees in ecologically
vulnerable areas by implementing extension education campaigns
supported by effective legal constraints where practical.



53
8.   Require private  sector firms  engaged in mining or other
commercial activities which results in leaving land exposed to'
erosion, to restore it to an environmentally sound condition.
6.8 Water Management
1.   The Highlands Water Project will be a major factor in the
economic development of Lesotho for decades.   It will also have
major environmental impacts in terms of roads, relocation of
people, new opportunities for tourism and recreation in addition
to the effects of the engineering structures.   The EIA for the
first phase of this project will provide training for Basotho
officials as well as serve as a* local example of this form of
management information.   Therefore maximum participation of all
relevant agencies in the EIA is recommended.
2.   There is a need to speed up an inventory of water needs and
resources and to formulate from this a national water development
masterplan. The plan should not be restricted to domestic water
needs, but provide for use of water for irrigation, industry,
construction, and hydro-electric power generation.
6.9 Land Management including Control of Urban and Rural
settlements
The Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning and the
Institute of Land Use Planning do not have sufficient manpower and
resources  to begin  tackling  effectively  the  long  recognised
problems arising from the proliferation of unplanned urban
settlements. To reinforce the orientation of the Department, the
following action points, having direct relevance to environmental
issues, are noted:
1.   The report of the Land Policy Review Commission can be the
basis of a national debate on land tenure issues. One particular
item for discussion is whether land should be treated as a national
asset ie whether economic efficiency should be a requirement for
land holding, this implying that access to land not being properly
used would be transferred to another household, a policy which the
Ministry of Agriculture is now examining. Following a thorough
debate on this and related issues, Government should draw up a
clear policy on land and land tenure and publicise this widely in
the country in order to achieve public awareness.
2.   As part of the implementation of livestock policy by the
Ministry of Agriculture, hold widespread consultations with rural
communities on land utilisation for grazing and for croplands. (see
6.1  and  6.2  above).       Hold  corresponding  discussions  with
households which have migrated to urban areas.



54
3. Complete the drawing up of comprehensive rural land use plans
and a National Settlement Strategy, incorporating the perspectives-
which emerge from consulting the people. Wherever possible, rather
than move households occupying or using land which would be better
suited to an alternative use, try to gradually change the land use
patterns, adapting technically sound solutions to the views and
needs of the people affected.
4.   Put into effect existing legislation on rural and urban land
use and physical planning, modifying and expanding laws if
necessary. Require development project documents to give explicit
attention to land tenure questions.
5    Offer training in the relevant disciplines both for central
government officials and for chiefs and local development council
members.
6.10 Urban Management and Establishment of Local Authorities
With the formation of the Maseru Town Council, the basis is being
laid for effective urban management throughout Lesotho.   The
following action points, having direct relevance to environmental
issues, should be noted under this heading:
1.   Reinforce urban planning machinery to produce urban plans that
are relevant to the country. Involve the local people in planning
and management.  Central Government should assist in setting up
democratically elected town councils, drawing on the experience of
establishing the Maseru Town Council.
2.   Promulgate relevant urban management regulations including
anti-pollution laws and town planning regulations. Establish plot
layouts for urban areas to facilitate future provision of services.
3.   Initiate   programmes   to   provide   and   improve   urban
infrastructure (e.g. water reticulation, ventilated improved privy
sanitation; rubbish, beer can and scrap metal disposal).
4.   Promote programmes to encourage adoption of appropriate,
minimal polluting energy sources, e.g. improved coal stoves in
preference to open fires.
5.   Provide necessary services from the Housing Department in the
Ministry of Interior to the Lesotho Housing and Land Corporation.
6.11 Proper Use and DisDosal of Hazardous Chemicals
Relatively little has been done about this issue in Lesotho,
although Government is well aware of the need for action to be



55
taken. The following steps are recommended:
1. Draw up an inventory of chemicals presently in use in Lesotho,
identifying dangerous and undesirable substances.
2. Establish guidelines for use or, if necessary, restrictions on
the use of certain chemicals.
3.  Disseminate information to the community on the dangers of
chemicals in use, the new guidelines and regulations, and how best
to make use of difficult chemical substances, dispose of
containers, etc.
4.    Encourage  research  and  dissemination  of  information  on
Integrated Pest Management techniques.
5. Contact international bodies such as UNEP, WHO, and the OECD
for information on the international transfer of hazardous
chemicals and hazardous wastes.



56
ANNEX 1: EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND USE LEGISLATION
l.Bees Protection Act No. 9 of 1869
2.Wild Birds Proclamation No. 43 of 1914
3.Locust Destruction Proclamation No. 3 of 1925
4.Uranium & Thorium Control Proclamation No. 6 of 1946
5.Game Protection Proclamation No. 33 of 1951
6.Historical Monuments, No. 41 of 1967
Relics, Fauna and Flora Act
7.Mining Rights Act No. 43 of 1967
8.Land (Procedure) Act 1967
9-Deeds Registry Act 1967
10.Weed Eradication Act No. 18 of 1969
1l.Land Husbandry Act 1969
12.Public Health Order No. 12 of 1970
13.Liremo Control No. 23 of 1970
14.Development Projects Order No. 9 of 1973
(a) Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project,
Legal Notice 11/73
(b) Training for Self-Reliance Project,
Government Notice 109/74
(c) Khomokhoana Project, Legal Notice 43/75
(d) Phuthiatsana Project, Legal Notice 11/77
(e) Southern Perimeter Road Project, Legal Notice 16/81
15.Land Act 1973
16.National Parks Act No. 11 of 1975
17.Aviation Act No. 32 of 1975



57
18.Forestry Act No. 11 of 1978
19.Water Resources Act No. 22 of 1978
20.Administration of Land Act 1979
21.Husbandry Act 1979
22.Town & Country Planning Act No. 11 of 1980
23.Range Management & Grazing Control Regs. 1980 (amended 1986)



