                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 29519

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (IDA-31050)

                                             ON A

                                            CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.80 MILLION

                                    TO THE KINGDOM OF

                                           LESOTHO

                                            FOR AN

               AGRICULTURAL POLICY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                                          June 20, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Susatainable Development
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2004)

                           Currency Unit = Maloti
                                     M1 = US$ 0.20
                                  US$ 1 = M6.30

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1   March 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB          -             African Development Bank
APCBP         -             Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building
ASIP          -             Agricultural Sector Investment Project
CAPs          -             Community Action Plans
CAS           -             Country Assistance Strategy
DES           -             District Economic Strategy
DFID          -             Department for International Development
DLSPP         -             Department of Lands, Survey and Physical Planning
DPPA          -             Department of Policy Planning and Analysis
EAs           -             Extensions Areas
FAO           -             Food and Agriculture Organization
FCSF          -             Farmer and Community Support Fund
GOL           -             Government of Lesotho
GOLFIS        -             Government of Lesotho Financial Information System
GIS           -             Global Information System
GTZ           -             German Agency for Technical Coporation
ICR           -             Implementation Completion Report
IFAD          -             International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMSC          -             Interministerial Steering Committee
LPRC          -             Land Policy Review Committee
MAFS          -             Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security
MOLG          -             Minitry of Local Goverment
MOACLR        -             Ministry of Agricultural, Co-operatives and Land Reclamation
MTIMC         -             Ministry of Trade and Industry, Co-operatives and Marketing
PAD           -             Project Appraisal Document
PIP           -             Project Implementation Plan
PS            -             Permanent Secretary
RCs           -             Resource Centres
TOU           -             Technical Operations Unit
UES           -             Unified Extension Areas

                          Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                       Country Director      Fayez S. Omar
                        Sector Manager       Richard Scobey
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Robert Townsend

                                           LESOTHO
                  AGRICULTURAL POLICY & CAPACITY BUILDING


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Operationalization of the Unified Extension System                      36
Annex 9. Land Reform                                                             37
Annex 10. Institutional Restructuring                                            38

Project ID: P001402                                                  Project Name: AG POL & CAP BLDG
Team Leader: Robert Townsend                                         TL Unit: AFTS2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: AG POL & CAP BLDG                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-31050
   Country/Department: LESOTHO                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (93%); Agricultural extension
                            and research (4%); Agricultural marketing and trade (3%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Infrastructure services for private
                            sector development (P); Law reform (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S); Land management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/19/2000                                     Effective: 09/01/1998                07/06/1999
     Appraisal: 04/01/1998                                         MTR: 12/01/2000                  06/25/2001
      Approval: 06/25/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO/GOL - MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAE AND
                                           FOOD SECURITY (AT APPRAISAL IT WAS CALLED MINISTRY OF
                                           AGRICULTURE, COOPERATIVES AND LAND RECLAMATION).
                      Other Partners:      LANDS COMMISSION, MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Fayez S. Omar                                  Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:                 Richard G. Scobey                              Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert Townsend                                Sakwa Bunyasi
ICR Primary Author:             Pietros Kidane (FAO/CP); Robert
                                Townsend


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building Project (APCBP) was to put in place
improved institutional and policy arrangements for the sustainable and efficient management, financing and
delivery of public and private agricultural services in Lesotho. The project was expected to achieve this
objective by: (a) improving sector strategy and management by strengthening capacities in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Security for policy analysis and, particularly at district level, for planning and
budgeting, and setting up a monitoring and evaluation system; (b) redirecting agriculture support services
to become more client responsive for effective and sustainable natural resource management; (c) facilitating
the development of a new land policy and legislation that is compatible with sustainable land use systems
and that enhances modern land management and administration practices, together with strengthening the
capacity for effective land management; and (d) introducing changes in management through institutional
restructuring, privatization and divestiture of activities, and market liberalization.

Following the realization that the agricultural sector was suffering from an inadequate policy and
institutional framework, some of which was put in place to respond to the challenges of the apartheid
regime in South Africa, the project's objective to modernize the agricultural sector for sustainable growth
was appropriate. The project's stated objective was in line with the Government of Lesotho (GOL)
Strategic Program of Action that was prepared after the 7th Round Table meeting held in Geneva in 1995,
as well as with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The major elements of the project
viz; institutional reform, restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation
­ now the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS) - the privatization and divesture of many
loss-making enterprises, market liberalization of some agricultural commodities, as well as introduction of
land reform were desirable interventions as they would inject more dynamism in the country's agriculture,
through better participation of the private sector.

The project was initially conceived as an Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP), and the dialogue
between IDA and GOL, as well as the bulk of the preparatory work between 1993 and 1997 was focused
on an ASIP. Following the realization of the lack capacity to undertake such a broad program, it was
scaled down from an ASIP to the APCBP, in order to develop policies and build capacity within the
relevant institutions in the country, with a view to laying the foundation for future development programs,
under a longer-term sector-wide program.

The objectives and scope of the APCBP were intended to be fairly broad, necessitated by the
integrated/interrelated nature of service delivery. More responsive frontline services required an
improvement in prioritizing, planning and budgeting at district level together with the realignment of the
structure and composition of district and national level agricultural offices to expressed priorities. A clearer
delineation of public and private roles was needed to ensure the improved effectiveness and efficiency of
service delivery, including policy issues related to privatization and divestiture, market liberalization, and
land management.

Greater clarification of these linkages could have more clearly highlighted the potential trade-offs between
the scope, sequencing, and speed of implementation in the context of limited capacity. Although the project
focused on the right issues, with hindsight, it perhaps had too broad a focus, covering too many subjects,
instead of initially concentrating on a few core strategic areas. This has rendered the project a more
sector-encompassing one, resembling a broad-based investment program rather than a project with a more
specific purpose. This broader focus made the project fairly complex, aiming at tackling far reaching



                                                       - 2 -

institutional and policy reforms. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) provided for eight key
performance indicators to monitor the achievements of project development objectives, and above forty
indicators to monitor intermediate outputs, in many case these were not specific or measurable.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objective was not revised during implementation. However, the objectives were more clearly
defined in terms of specific quantitative indicators, beyond - but still consistent with - the general
qualtiative indicators in the PAD. The supervision missions discussed the option of restructuring the project
to further narrow its focus, however the Government's strong view was that all components should remain
given their interlinkages. While the objectives did not change, the focus of implementation shifted more
explicitly to the key development objective performance indicators rather than focusing on the component
and sub-component output indicators.

3.3 Original Components:

APCBP had four components with financing from multiple donors:

(i) Sector Strategy and Management (US$1.25 million of which US$0.56 million was from IDA):
      designed to help strengthen analytical capacity for policy analysis; build skills and technical expertise
      in sectoral planning and budgeting with a district focus; develop a functional monitoring and
      evaluation system; and introduce an effective management information system. It comprised three
      subcomponents: Policy Analysis, Planning and Budgeting and Monitoring and Evaluation with
      support for policy studies on subsidies and deregulation, the development of district agricultural
      (economic) strategies, public expenditure reviews, monitoring surveys and analysis, training and
      consultation workshops, office hardware, vehicles, and international technical assistance on policy and
      public expenditure analysis.

(ii) Agricultural Support Services (US$2.40 million of US$0.59 million was from IDA): aimed at
      rationalizing, decentralizing and effectively delivering agricultural support services that are
      client-oriented and promote agricultural production through effective natural resource management. It
      consisted of four subcomponents: Extension, Technical Services, Research and Marketing Facilitation
      with support for training workshops, studies on rural marketing and the rationalization of public
      services, office hardware, laboratory equipment, civil works for new laboratories, international
      technical assistance on extension and livestock technical services, vehicles, and a farmer and
      community support fund for the implementation of community action plans to improve the
      effectiveness of extension.

(iii) Land Management and Administration (US$3.24 million of which US$1.58 million was from IDA):
      designed to facilitate a land policy review, legal and administrative reform and the strengthening of the
      institutional capacity of the Department of Lands, Survey and Physical Planning (DLSPP) in the
      Ministry of Local Government (MOLG). It comprised four subcomponents: Land Policy and
      Legislative Reform, Land Administration, Land Information Systems and Land Use Planning with
      support for policy studies, consultation workshops, legislation drafting, international technical
      assistance, vehicles, civil works, office hardware, training, and GIS software and equipment.

(iv) Change Process Management (US$7.39 million of which US$4.07 million was from IDA): designed
      to support strategic management of the change process as a whole focusing on comprehensive reform
      of the Ministry of Agriculture at national and district levels, including institutional restructuring,



                                                      - 3 -

      developing related policies and systems; and the privatization, market liberalization and divestiture of
      activities. It consisted of four subcomponents: Institutional Restructuring, Human Resource
      Management, Financial Management and Privatization and Divestiture with support for developing
      the privatization program and scheduling, international technical assistance on change management,
      training workshops, vehicles, civil works for improved district offices and office hardware.

The design of all components were directly linked to the objectives described above and reflect the
integrated/interrelated nature of service delivery consistent with the causal links described in 3.1. While the
sum of the components logically lead to the objectives, some of the initial component output indicators were
not directly linked to the core outcome indicators reflected in the PAD.

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised during implementation. Focus was more explicitly directed to the core
development objective indicators, namely operationalization of the unified extension system; improved land
legislation; restructuring of district and national level agricultural offices, privatization and divestiture,
improving the policies on subsidies and regulation; and improving the financial management systems.
These represent a more prioritized focus of each component. One activity was added, namely, the
development of an HIV/AIDS program within MAFS. The project closing date was extended for a two year
period from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2003, to allow more time to achieve the projects
development objectives.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry ICR rating is unsatisfactory.

While addressing the appropriate institutional and policy constraints in the sector, project design failed to
take account of the demanding nature of project activities, which in hindsight had unrealistic expectations
on the pace of implementation, particularly considering the common political sensitivities on policy and
institutional reform. Several reforms, including land legislation, privatization and divesture and
liberalization of marketing required extensive stakeholder consultation, which is normally a time consuming
exercise. While the project design and implementation period was scaled down from an Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP) to focus more on policy and capacity building, the scope remained fairly broad
with a mismatch between scope, duration and capacity.

Furthermore, in hindsight, the project was overly optimistic about progress on cross-cutting issues. For
example, it was assumed at appraisal, consistent with the stated policy at the time that the Government
would carry out reform of the civil service and decentralize functions to districts, which has not yet been
done in a broad based manner. Yet, the speed of implementation of key project activities, such as the
restructuring of MAFS, was to some extent determined by progress on these cross-cutting issues.

Prior to the start of the project in 1998, Lesotho was a relatively good performer, with relatively high
Country Performance and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) ratings, and a relatively good record of
implementation. The civil disturbances following the stongly contested elections in 1998 resulted in a more
delicate balance of power which slowed policy and institutional reform significantly. This situation
persisted until the Parliamentary elections in 2002. The political unrest heightened the outflow of human
capital. Hence, with hidsight, it is easy to draw conclusions, but the preparation team could not know the
impending political changes which were to take place shortly after the completion of project preparation.




                                                     - 4 -

Nevertheless, project formulation lacked adequate preparation of some subcomponents and activities with
the explicit or implicit intention that these tasks would be accomplished during the preparation of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), or later on as part of project execution. For instance, defining principles
and procedures for the decentralization and restructuring of MAFS, and how the project's support would
be operationalized, was left to be completed and agreed with donors through the PIP, which amounts to
assigning project preparation responsibility to the PIP. Furthermore, preparation of the PIP was to have
been undertaken by MAFS even though its capacity in this area had been identified as weak. Likewise,
some project activities were not well defined at appraisal and this task was left to be done as part of project
implementation. Examples of not well prepared activities are the design and implementation arrangements
for the farming community support fund (FCSF); and project organization and management. Some
proposals were also not carefully studied in spite of their possible social and political impact such as the
implications of privatization and divesture of assets and commercial activities or liberalization of marketing
of some agricultural commodities. The proposal to outsource about 20 percent of the extension services and
20 percent of the agricultural research program to the private sector, including non-governmental
organization, was not based on any proven experience or practicability. In addition, while the project
improved donor co-ordination significantly through joint financing in the sector, the parallel co-financing
arrangements exposed the project to risks when donors delayed declaring their support for the project.
Considering the above points, the quality at entry was unsatisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Outcome ICR rating is marginally satisfactory. Since the ICR guidelines only permit ratings of
statisfactory an unsatisfactory, an unsatisfactory overall rating is given.

The project did not achieve its development objectives over the project timeframe, however it did make
substantial progress towards many of the objectives. The likelihood of the project activities achieving
satisfactory development results over time will depend on whether the Government maintains consistency in
policy measures adopted under the project.

At completion, APCBP has produced mixed results in terms of achieving the development objective and
delivering the outputs specified in the PAD. While the project clearly advanced the policy and institutional
framework that supports the delivery of agricultural services, a number of the reforms remain incomplete.
The project achieved some notable policy advances, e.g. completing the district economic strategies, the
national agricultural sector strategy, drafting the agricultural subsidy and land policies, unifying the
extension system; as well as institutional reforms, such as streamlining of MAFS, with ongoing
restructuring of the central and district offices and decentralizing functions. However, several key project
outcomes such as completion of land legislation, full privatization of public enterprises, marketing
liberalization of some agricultural commodities, and completion of the restructuring of the Ministry of
Agriculture national and district offices still remain to be accomplished. According to MAFS staff,
upgrading the skills of MAFS personnel, in the context of capacity building, was limited as the training
program was short term in nature. Despite not fully achieving all the ambitious development objectives set
at appraisal, APCBP has, nevertheless, made significant policy, institutional and technical advancements
that merit recognition. This is particularly so if account is taken of the fact that completing the partially
achieved tasks is in process. (the Table below provides a summary of progress towards the development
objective indicators).




                                                     - 5 -

Table 1: Project Development Objectives (as reflected in the Project Appraisal Document)

Descriptive Indicator              Verifiable Indicator                                    Status at Project Closing
                                                                                 Satisfactory
Unified Extension Service          (i)   All district extension staff trained in      ·    96 percent of district extension staff
operational in 10 districts              relevant multi-disciplinary                       trained for UES implementation
with services delivered                  facilitation and the action learning
according to defined client              cycle                                        ·    85 percent of extension areas have at
categories and needs               (ii) District extension staff have prepared             least one community action plan
assessment                               and are implementing at least one                 completed with implementation
                                         district community action plan in                 initiated
                                         each extension area                          ·    District budgets are consistent with
                                   (iii) District budgets are consistent with              UES implementation
                                         UES implementation                           ·    89 percent complete
                                   (iv) Ten farmer and community support
                                         fund projects implemented in each
                                         district
                                                                                 Unsatisfactory
Improved land legislation in       Revised Land Legislation passed by               ·    Land Reform process has been approved
place                              Parliament                                            by Cabinet. The Bill had not yet been
                                                                                         submitted to Parliament.
Institutional restructuring of
MoACLR                                                                           Unsatisfactory
(i)  restructuring of MoACLR (i) Headquarters office restructured                    ·    Non-core units have been transferred;
     headquarters                       including transfer of non-core units              new national structure has not yet been
                                                                                          approved by MoPS
(ii) restructuring of district     (ii) 10 district offices restructured             ·    65 percent of all positions in newly
     offices [includes staff                                                              approved district office structure have
     decentralization plan]                                                               been filled
(iii) rationalization of technical (iii) Agreed policy on afforestation/             ·    Background studies complete
     services                           conservation, animal health, seeds, and
                                        irrigation
(iv) divestment & privatization (iii) 16 enterprises privatized, liquidated or       ·    4 enterprises liquidated; 1 privatized
                                        restructured
                                                                                 Unsatisfactory
Rationalized marketing and         (i)   Agreed policy statement on subsidies         ·    Cabinet has issued a policy directive
pricing policy                           for farm inputs based on subsidy                  on the use of input subsidies
                                         evaluation review
                                   (ii) Deregulation of remaining controls            ·    Deregulation schedule has been
                                         on agricultural commodities                       submitted to Cabinet for approval
                                         implemented according to schedule
                                                                                 Satisfactory
Financial management               (i)   Accountants posted in 10 districts           ·    Accountants have been posted in
system and disaggregated           (ii) Disaggregated accounting system in                 each district
accounting system for districts          place                                        ·    Dissaggregated accounting system in
operational                                                                                place
                                                                                 Satisfactory
MOA's recurrent                    (i)   15 percent reduction in MOA real             ·    20 percent decline (priori to split of
expenditure reduced by 15                recurrent expenditure                             Ministry)
percent through                    (ii) 60 percent of recurrent expenditure           ·    53 percent
divestment/privatization/                spent at district level
cessation of non-core
activities




                                                                  - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Sector Strategy and Management: Satisfactory

This component had three subcomponents: policy analysis; planning and budgeting, and monitoring and
evaluation. The outputs of this component should be considered as satisfactory as significant capacity was
developed for policy analysis, planning and budgeting has improved and a monitoring and evaluation
system is in place, although some of the activities need consolidation.

Policy Analysis: Satisfactory: Overall, the outputs of this component should be considered marginally
satisfactory. While the project made progress in a number of areas there was significant policy reversal in
2002 from Government commitments made at the start of the project which inhibited implementation. The
project made considerable progress in strengthening MAFS capacity for planning and policy analysis and
in initiating monitoring and evaluation activities in the agricultural sector. Specifically, under the policy
analysis subcomponent, the MAFS completed district economic strategies (DESs) designed to serve as the
basis for its agricultural extension services for the country's ten districts in 2000/2001. Drawing from these
district strategies, the MAFS prepared its first ever national Agriculture Sector Strategy document in
August 2003, which is a statement of national policy and strategy in the agricultural sector.

Planning and Budgeting: Satisfactory: In the planning and budgeting subcomponent, MAFS introduced
activity-based budgeting and in 2001 drafted planning and budgeting guidelines for the districts to ensure
consistency in approach, although adoption of this approach has been slow. A public expenditure review
was undertaken a medium-term expenditure plan developed.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Satisfactory: A project baseline survey in two pilot districts was undertaken
in 2001, and a follow-up survey in 2003 to monitor impact. It is still too early to determine aggregate
household level impacts, although there were visible impacts on site specific field visits. Attribution was
also difficult to assess due to the large overlapping Government subsidy program in 2002. Although
initiated, much remains to be done to institutionalize effective planning and budgeting systems, to
strengthen overall financial management (e.g., computerization of the financial management system) and to
train the Ministry personnel to perform these functions effectively.

In 2002 the Government introduced a large subsidy program in response to the weather related food
situation. The subsidy program did not take account of lessons from past programs in Lesotho and from the
rest of Africa and reversed the efforts under the project to rationalize the design and use of the subsidy
program (one of the key policy issues under the project). Seventy percent of staff time was spent on
coordination of seed and fertilizer distribution under the subsidy program, which diverted attention from
the implementation of the UES. The goal of the subsidy program was to plough and plant every field in
Lesotho. The program was fiscally unaffordable, had an adverse private sector impact, encouraged
production on marginal lands and perpetuated farmer dependency. While, as a result of this experience,
MAFS issued a more rational national policy statement on the use of subsidies in the agricultural sector in
May 2003, the activities in 2002 significantly undermined implementation progress and represented a
significant policy reversal from the stated Government position at the start of the project.

Component 2: Agricultural Support Services: Satisfactory

This component had four subcomponents: extension, research, marketing facilitation, and technical services



                                                       - 7 -

. The output under this component is considered satisfactory and the main task of developing a unified
extension system has been achieved with implementation underway.

Extension: Satisfactory: Consistent with the development objectives, the main subcomponent was the
introduction of the UES, which the project has achieved. MAFS developed and consolidated the UES
extension model, in March 2001, and piloted it in three districts. The MAFS then introduced the UES in all
the districts through training of district extension staff in the action learning cycle and in the preparation
and implementation of Community Action Plans (CAPs). All staff have been trained in 7 of the 10 districts,
with 90 percent or more staff trained in the remaining 3 districts. About 160 CAPs have been prepared with
implementation underway on 80. To complement the extension services provided under the UES, the
MAFS prepared the necessary guidelines and operationalized the Farmer and Community Support Fund
(FCSF) in 2002 in order to finance, with matching grants, selected small-scale agricultural investments
identified by communities in the CAPs. At project close, the FCSF has prepared about 140 micro projects,
with disbursement, in all ten districts of the country, and efforts are being made to focus the program to
community-based support (see Annex 8). However, the project is still in the process of consolidating UES
implementation, staffing the Resource Centres (RCs), and institutionalizing district work-planning and
reporting systems. The outsourcing of selected extension service and research programs to the private
sector through a District Services and Innovation Fund was not introduced.

Research: Unsatisfactory: The project did not address MAFS's agricultural research policy and the
institutional needs under the research subcomponent, mainly due to the slow pace of the concerned Division
in advancing the planning and execution of the subcomponent. The Research Division produced a study
evaluating the impact of agricultural research in June 2001 and drafted a national research strategy, but it
was never finalized. As part of institutional support, the project constructed a new district agricultural
office in Maseru and expanded and equipped the soils and veterinary laboratories of the MAFS. On
balance, however, the output under this subcomponent should be considered satisfactory as the main task of
operationalizing the unified extension system has been largely achieved with steps to consolidate
implementation of the system underway, notwithstanding the significant diversion of extension staff to the
subsidy program in 2002 and early 2003.

Marketing facilitation: Satisfactory: Project activities related to marketing facilitation/reform have not yet
led to deregulation. However, the project succeeded in carrying out studies, including an analysis of the 13
commodities that are under GOL control, with the view to understanding the impact of
liberalization/deregulation on producers, consumers and trade in general. The results of these studies were
discussed with stakeholders in workshops carried out in all ten districts, the recommendations of which
were discussed in a national workshop in March 2003. Finally, a report was prepared containing the
recommendations for deregulation with the necessary policy measures for quality, standards and
competitiveness. The recommendations were well received by both MAFS and MTIMC, and are expected
to be presented to the Cabinet soon.

Technical Services: Unsatisfactory: Significant background work on technical services was undertaken
during the project, including on policy issues related to afforestation, conservation, irrigation, seeds and
animal health, with the initiation of a livestock database and registration system, however much of it is still
to be taken forward to implementation.

Component 3: Land Management and Administration: Unsatisfactory

This component had four subcomponents: land policy and legislative reform, land use planning, land
information systems, and land administration. Although there has been significant progress on the land


                                                      - 8 -

policy and legislation, the new legislation is still to be enacted and together with the slow performance on
land administration, information systems, and land use planning, this component is rated as unsatisfactory.

Land policy and legislative reform: Satisfactory: The establishment of a Land Policy Review Commission,
to undertake the necessary land policy review and consultations, was delayed for almost a year, hindering
initial progress in this area. The reasons for this included the delay by the main donor in declaring its
contribution effective and the weak coordination between the two ministries, MAFS and MOLG. Once the
commission was established, however, it made real progress in developing a new land policy and in
drafting, if not enacting, new land legislation. The commission delivered its first major output, the land
policy review report, in September 2000, which the GOL adopted as an official working document. The
MOLG then appointed a task force to develop a Land Policy White Paper based on the report. The White
Paper was delivered for Cabinet consideration and approval in August 2001. However, the government
suggested that MOLG prepare new land legislation based on the White Paper for submission to the
Parliament. This was done in 2003, and the draft land bill is soon to be submitted to Parliament (see Annex
9 for more details on the process).

Land use planning and land administration: Unsatisfactory: Progress was slow in rationalizing and
streamlining land use planning functions between MOLG and MAFS, but the Land Use Planning Division
in MAFS was finally transferred to MOLG in 2002. Strengthening land use planning has not advanced as
the proposed guidelines have yet to be prepared. There was little progress in actually improving land
administration at the local level other than constructing three MOLG district office complexes which were
complete at project closing. Decentralization of DLSSP personnel has been slow and somewhat dictated by
the local government reforms on with the implementation of the new land act will be based.

Land information systems: Unsatisfactory: Slow but steady progress was also made on the land
information system, creating compatible data bases among GOL agencies. Instituting the geographic
information systems still remains to be completed.

Component 4: Change Process Management: Unsatisfactory

This component had four subcomponents: institutional restructuring; human resource management;
financial management system; and privatization and divestiture. Given that restructuring and privatization
and divestiture remains incomplete the output of this component is rated unsatisfactory, notwithstanding the
significant progress made.

Institutional restructuring: Unsatisfactory: The project has made some significant institutional changes,
although many of these remain incomplete. MAFS has transferred its non-core units to other, more
appropriate institutions (i.e., Youth Affairs to the Ministry of Gender, Youth and Sports; Land Use
Planning to MOLG; Marketing to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, Cooperatives and Marketing
(MTIMC), and the Lesotho Agricultural College to the University of Lesotho. although recently GOL
decided to move the Agricultural College back to MAFS. GOL intends to incorporate the Department of
Research within the College to form one institution of agricultural education and research. - see Annex 10).
The split of the Ministry of Agriculture, Co-operatives and Land Reclamation into the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Security, the Ministry of Forestry and Land Reclamation, with Co-operatives moving
to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, Co-operatives and Marketing was not a proposal under the project
but came as a Cabinet directive. There are concerns that the split will cause confusion at the district level,
with two separate Ministry offices, and dampen the focus on the community action plans; however, the
Ministries intend to work closely together in order to prevent this from happening. The organogram of the
new structure of the MAFS has been developed and discussed but not yet implemented.


                                                       - 9 -

The MAFS began restructuring of the ten districts agricultural offices in line with the DESs and the UES.
The approved establishment for the new district agricultural office structures represents about a 30 percent
decline from the previous establishment, largely the result of privatization and divestiture. The restructuring
program is expected to be undertaken in three phases over three years, about 65 percent of the posts in the
new structure have been filled. About 15 percent of district posts have been transferred from headquarters,
and about 40 percent have been upgraded to provide better incentives for staff to move to districts. The
central departments of MAFS have not yet been restructured and rationalized based on the Ministry's new
sector vision and strategy although a new structure (organogram) has been proposed. The proposal
envisages a halving of the number of staff at headquarters to about 230 staff (excluding the Agricultural
Research Division and Lesotho Agricultural College).

Human resources management: Satisfactory: Under the human resources management subcomponent,
MAFS formulated and adopted a new human resources management policy in 2001, as well as policies for
training and development, performance management, human resources relocation, and communications.
The Ministry has conducted a staffing inventory, eliminated ghost workers, audited staff salaries and is in
the process of revising job descriptions. Overall, human resource management has also become more
efficient due to the project's support in introducing modern practices following a review of job descriptions
for all staff, and synchronizing these with the new policies, objectives and functions of the Ministry. As a
result of the restructuring of MAFS, the budgetary process has been streamlined and significant savings
were made. In terms of agricultural support services, the project has introduced the UES in all districts, and
all field officers now have a clear message and guidelines on how to serve the farming communities. In line
with each DES, staff have started to be deployed to the RCs to initiate operations. The implementation of
the FCSF is being carried out under the new UES approach, further strengthening the project's impact in
agricultural extension.

Financial management system: Satisfactory: The financial management subcomponent experienced initial
delays while MAFS and the Bank determined that the Government of Lesotho Financial Information
System (GOLFIS) needed improvements to meet the reporting requirements of the APCBP. Once
agreement was reached on this issue, however, MAFS initiated computerization of its financial
management systems and placed senior accountants in all the district offices.

Privatization and divestiture: Unsatisfactory: Privatization, deregulation and liquidation have not
progressed as envisaged at appraisal, but, among other things, the studies carried out by the project
identified many issues that were not given sufficient attention at appraisal. For instance, it became clear
that: the local private sector was under-resourced to purchase enterprises; many stakeholders did not agree
with the sale of land where the enterprises operate; some activities, like training centres, did not attract the
private sector. Of the 16 enterprises identified to be privatized at appraisal, 1 has been privatized (leased);
4 liquidated; with a further two being partially liquidated (see Annex 10 for the status of each of the 16
enterprises). The most costly enterprise to the Ministry budget was the Technical Operations Unit. Over the
course of the project, since 1998/99 the material size of the TOU has been significantly reduced, with the
number of tractors declining by 70 percent (from 200 to 59). The number of combine harvesters has stayed
relatively constant at about 20. The share of the MAFS recurrent budget going to the TOU has declined
from about 30-35 percent in 1998/99 to about 6-7 percent as of 2003/04.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No net present value or economic rate of return were calculated at appraisal as the project focused
essentially on policy reform and institution building. It would have been useful to undertake an assessment



                                                     - 10 -

of some of the the ex-ante impacts of the proposed policy changes at appraisal. From a purely
cost-effective perspective the project did not achieve its expected output by project closing meaning that the
costs per unit of output were higher than envisgaed at appraisal.

A number of useful economic analyses were undertaken during project implementation including: (i) costs
and benefits of marketing liberalization of various commodities; (ii) economic impacts of the 2002 subsidy
program; (iii) economic implications of the new land act; (iv) cost effectiveness of various implementation
modalities of the UES; and (iii) quantification of the impact of restructuring plans on the Ministry of
agriculture budget (see Annex 3 for more detail). The results guided the formulation of some of the policy
and instituional reforms during implementation which showed positive ex-ante impacts. It is too early to
undertake an evaluation of the actual impact of some of the reforms and many are still in progress and
hence are incomplete.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. The project has had a modest institutional impact. It has been instrumental in improving the
system of work and efficiency of several departments within MAFS. The most important impact has been
in the Department of Policy Planning and Analysis and in the Department of Human Resources. With
external technical assistance, and through work on policy issues under the project, including the subsidies
policy and deregulation, together with the work on the Agricultural Sector Strategy, DPPA has developed
greater capacity to undertake systematic policy analysis. The monitoring and evaluation unit, established by
the project, has also shifted focus from ad hoc and project or donor-specific, to a more permanent
sector-wide focus, covering any relevant activity in the agricultural sector. Presently, there are no separate
approaches for monitoring and evaluation within the agricultural sector.

APCBP has also made a positive imprint on the institutional restructuring of MAFS, particularly at district
level with a greater alignment of district agricultural office structures to the district economic strategies and
the UES, supported through the decentralization of many technical and management functions and the
redeployment of higher level staff to the districts. The national level structure has also changed significantly
with the transfer of non-core units as noted in section 4.2. While much of the restructuring has been agreed
(district structures) with some still to be agreed by project closing (e.g. headquarters), acutal
implementation (physical changes on the ground), were modest. To a lesser extent, the DLSPP and the
Department of Marketing in the other two Ministries (MOLG and MTICM) have also benefited in terms of
improving their capacity in analysis and preparation of development policies and programmes. The
Department of Marketing in MTIC and the Department of Policy, Planning and Analysis in MAFS have
been working closely together on the deregulation study. A residual benefit from the preparation of land
policy and draft bill, as well as from the agricultural commodity analysis in DLSPP and the Department of
Marketing, respectively, has been the improvement of working methods of their staff as a result of
on-the-job training.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Project effectiveness was delayed by about ten months mainly due to disruptions in government operations
on account of civil disturbances in August/September 1998 (see also section 3.1). Delays in the signing of



                                                     - 11 -

contribution agreements by the different cofinanciers also affected project implementation. In addition, a
state of famine was declared in the country in 2002 based on concerns about the impact of late frosts and
early rains on crop production. Production, however, ended up being slightly below the long term trend
average. The corresponding Government response program had significant negative impacts on project
implementation, with the reversal of policy decisions on subsidies.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Failure to implement the civil service reform and the decentralization of government functions inhibited the
early restructuring of the MAFS, particularly at district level. A tendency of the Public Service
Commission to transfer MAFS staff trained under the project to other GOL institutions is affecting the
performance of MAFS, particularly that of the Department of Human Resources. Throughout the project
implementation period, the Interministerial Steering Committee (ISC) has not performed as anticipated.
With the exception of the Chamber of Commerce, the private sector was not involved in the ISC meetings,
and most of the GOL members lacked sufficient interest/incentives to participate in its meetings, and were
often represented by junior staff, who very often were not able to make important decisions on project
management and implementation. As above, project progress would have been much better had the
Government not instructed MAFS to involve its staff in the Famine Relief Program, including managing the
distribution of subsidized inputs during 2001/2002. This task practically paralyzed other MAFS activities
during the greater part of the year, with the extension staff spending about seventy percent of their time on
the program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

While the project rightly did not set up a project implementation unit (to prevent parallel management
systems), but used the existing Ministry department structure, it did not benefit from the guidance and
support of a strong project management system. Although no specific organizational set-up that details
management functions was proposed at appraisal, the project deserved a full-time coordinator from within
the Ministry with clear terms of reference. The coordinator should have benefited from a support team to
be called on for planning and coordinating implementation, including from concerned staff outside MAFS,
such as DLSPP. The large Technical Assistance Team could not be a substitute for management and
implementation coordination, as they had essentially an executing role hence needing policy guidance
themselves. Availability of a full time coordinator with the necessary facilities and consistent staff support
would have reduced the difficulties faced by the project. This would have probably minimized the lack of
project management attention lamented by DLSPP.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$14.28 million, of which IDA would finance US$6.80
or about 48 percent of the total. The remainder was to be financed by four other donors (US$6.90 million),
and by GOLS, US$0.58 million. Of the IDA funds, some 54 percent were allocated for the Change Process
Management component, while in terms of category of expenditures about 45 percent were to be spent on
consultancies and studies. At completion, total IDA disbursement was about US$6 million. Government
contribution to the project was US$0.6 million.

The project design used parallel cofinancing arrangements for participating donors (the African
Development Bank (AfDB), the European Union (EU), the British Department for International
Development (DFID); and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ)) in which every donor
managed the financing of its contribution independently, while at the same time, allowing the financing of a



                                                    - 12 -

number of activities jointly by several donors. This created difficulties when some donors delayed the
approval of their contributions. Final donor commitments were agreed as late as September 1999 (GTZ)
and June 2001 (DFID), with the DFID contributions awaiting Government confirmations on the future of
Co-op Lesotho and the subsidy program. The EU withdrew its contribution altogether in November 2000,
following agreement with GOL to transfer the funds to other sectors.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely: Although the project did not achieve its initial development objectives, the probability of
maintaining the signficant achievements generated is high. For example - the project has produced many
intermediate outcomes that, with continued implementation, will eventually reach all the development
objectives. Being an institutional reform and capacity building project, sustainability of most of the
restructuring, reforms and capacity-building systems and activities should depend on future GOL policies
on the same. If there are no changes of direction by GOL, the elements related to land legislation and
administration; market liberalization and the restructuring of MAFS are expected to continue to develop in
a sustainable manner. Key risks are the extent to which Government adheres to its new subsidy policy,
including the size of the TOU, and the continued implementation of the UES with the completion of the
district and national office restructuring. Progress on decentralization and civil service reform would
support this effort. These reforms now have government support to authorize the conclusion that they will
be realized as originally intended. The sustainable operation of UES is also likely because the Ministry is
pleased to be out of the multiform extension system, and eager to continue it under the restructured set-up,
and is providing the staffing and budget required to realize it. One area of concern with regard to
sustainability of project activities is the relatively high turnover of staff, particularly within DPPA and the
Department of Human Resources as the result of resignations and transfers to other government
institutions. If the present high demand by Public Service in transferring MAFS staff to other ministries is
moderated, the proposed increases in grades of staff may assist MAFS in retaining its staff. The
convictions on sustainability of project activities are based on observations of follow-on activities by
MAFS. At present, the ministry is acting vigorously to deepen the achievements made under the project by
continuing the redeployment and recruitment of high-calibre staff. Budget plans for the year 2003/2004
indicate that the Ministry is endeavoring to include funds that enable the districts to operate in line with the
systems introduced by the project. Within MAFS headquarters, the restructuring proposals include
upgrading staff positions to higher salary scales. All of these actions are good omens for sustainable future
operations. The overall sustainability of project actions in continuing privatization and divestiture is
dependant on Government committment. It is reasonable to assume that those items already sold to the
private sector, would be operated in a sustainable manner, as observed with regard to the privatized
tractors.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Project activities have been mainstreamed into the regular government set-up, and staff and other operating
expenditures are already part of the existing government budget. The non-core activities that were moved
from MAFS to other ministries were transferred with the related personnel and budget, and are permanently
incorporated within these new institutions. All project activities that are in the process of being pushed
further, such as the market liberalization and land legislation are being pursued as part of the normal tasks
of the concerned departments. The UES and the restructured MAFS have been absorbed into the regular
operations, and staffing and budgeting for the next fiscal year is based on these new realities introduced by
the project. However, in order to ensure success of the project initiated activities, particularly those items
that have been only partially completed, there is a need for strong political support by the government.


                                                       - 13 -

Deepening the achievements made in institutional restructuring may require more efforts in training the
staff.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory: Bank preparation was unsatisfactory. Although Project identification and preparation
began in 1993, it took place systematically by establishing dialogue with all stakeholders; this was changed
during the pre-appraisal of the project, when IDA, together with other donors took the lead in putting
together APCBP. The project objective and scope was changed rapidly from ASIP to a more modest
project aimed at carrying out policy reform and capacity building. While there was nothing wrong in
changing the project objective (once it was understood that reforms and institutional building were priority
prerequisite for development), it is not clear why the project had to be loaded with so many activities,
targets and donor disbursement conditions that are normally placed on sector-wide investment programmes.
Bank support in project formulation and appraisal was deficient, at least on account of four considerations:
(a) consultations on the new project (APCBP) were held mostly with the donors and senior Government
officials, with little discussions with the concerned Ministry professionals and the project task force; (b)
designing a project that was too complex in terms of multiplicity of tasks and activities and donor
disbursement conditionalities; (c) establishing overly ambitious objectives and targets for the project
timeframe, in spite of the capacity constraints that prevailed within the implementation agencies; and (d)
leaving a number of tasks without adequate design preparation, obliging the project to engage,
simultaneously, in duties related to preparation and implementation. The weaknesses in project preparation
and appraisal are the main source of difficulties that the project had to face during implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory: The Bank fielded 10 supervision missions, including one before the project was declared
effective. Missions were regular (every 6 months) with a constructive blend of field visits and ministerial
discussion. The specialization mix and the participation by the cofinanciers were adequate with consistency
in team leadership (two since project effectiveness). With the gradual decline in the operating environment
following the 1998 civil disturbances, the mission increased the intensity of supervision, and did raise the
issue of project restructuring with Government and co-financiers once the project ran into difficulties.
However, the Government requested retaining all components given their inter-relatedness, and ownership.
The mission subsequently narrowed the focus of activities to the core project development objectives, which
more appropriately focused capacity and resources. Implementation problems were addressed pro-actively
making good use of the more flexible bilateral financing for short term needs. Donor co-ordination under
the project was strong, with joint donor missions the Bank worked actively to integrate and mainstream the
separate IFAD project into the CAPs and UES, so as the minimize parallel programs and overburden
limited capacities. The Bank's management played an active role in monitoring implementation. Following
the downgrading of the project to unsatisfactory, the outgoing mission met with World Bank Management
to agree what minimum actions needed to be completed to retrain or upgrade the ratings, and then on their
return discussed the mission findings and agreed on project ratings. Progress was made is a fairly difficult
implementation environment. The performance of supervision was satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory: The performance of supervision out-weighed that of preparation, hence the overall Bank
performance rating is satisfactory.



                                                     - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Unsatisfactory: Borrower's performance in project identification and preparation was adequate until the
time of pre-appraisal of the project. During this period, MAFS professionals were formed into a task force
and were provided the opportunity to contribute significantly to project formulation. In particular, the
departments of MAFS produced different technical papers, and presented their development proposals
which were thoroughly discussed with IDA and other donors. After the pre-appraisal of the project,
however, the level of engagement of MAFS professionals declined considerably, and the active
participation that characterized the initial project preparation exercise started to fade away. Thus the
reformulation of ASIP, or putting together APCBP, was largely carried out under the influence of donors,
with little input from GOL technical staff. Apparently, in order to address the pressing problems that faced
the agricultural sector then, GOL endorsed all APBCP proposals, in spite of the complexity of the project,
in terms of number of activities and donor disbursement policy conditionalities, which were aggravated by
the diverse requirements of the cofinancing donors. In particular, GOL should have realized that carrying
out land legislation, privatization and divesture as well as market liberalization within three years, would be
implausible, if account is taken of the effort and time needed for consultations with stakeholders. Therefore,
borrower performance in preparation is also considered to be unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory: When implementation started, MAFS and other concerned ministries were put in a
situation that was difficult to manage on several accounts. Firstly, the professional staff did not fully
understand the project, and there was no backup from a strong project management team to initiate project
activities by explaining the different tasks, as IDA funds were already available when the project was
declared effective. Secondly, funds from other cofinanciers were not flowing as expected, because GOL
delayed in complying with some of their conditions, particularly on subsidy policy. Thirdly, MAFS and
MOLG later understood that the critical reform process would require considerable time to organize studies
and consultation with stakeholders before they were presented to the government for approval. All these
factors led to delayed realization of the ambitious targets set by the project. In addition, although it was
clear that the project was struggling to undertake a wide range of activities in the context of weak
management support, the Interministerial Steering Committee (ISC) did little to resolve the main problems
of the project. Taking into account the nature of the tasks and the limited capacity within the ministries, it
would not have been difficult to anticipate that many of the project components and subcomponents would
require more time and support than allowed under the project. The introduction and design of the subsidies
scheme in 2002 under the Famine Relief Program was a significant policy reversal from the stated
Government posisiton at the begining of the project. GOL's decision to involve in a major way MAFS and
its staff in the Famine Relief Program and the management of the input subsidy program virtually put a
stop to project progress in that year, because the bulk of the Ministry staff at headquarters and in the field
were involved in this task. This decision alone makes government implementation performance
unsatisfactory. Nevertheless, this does not mean to ignore GOL's positive stance towards the project and
flexibility in responding to the needs of enhancing implementation. Examples of these are improving the
slow flow of project funds by allowing the operations through a commercial bank account, instead of
treasury; agreeing to the restructuring of the MAFS at headquarters and in the districts; and upgrading
salary scales of staff positions, which were important for expediting project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory: MAFS continued to struggle with the project throughout the implementation period due to


                                                     - 15 -

management difficulties. The main reason was a shortage of trained staff, since MAFS chose to manage the
project with limited staff. While mainstreaming project management and leaving implementation to the
relevant departments was appropriate, there should have been, nevertheless, a minimum coordination
among these departments to ensure that expected project tasks were initiated, planned, budgeted,
implemented and monitored as per an agreed strategy and programme. Some coordinating mechanism
should have ensured that the project was steered as desired and not left to drift. Another difficulty faced by
MAFS was the lack of strong political support and policy guidance from ISC. This committee failed to
provide the project the expected policy level leadership to the agricultural sector. A number of project
activities related to research, veterinary services were not carried out because the technical departments did
not pursue these activities, and could have been avoided had there been a central authority, such as, ISC,
that monitors activities and signals weaknesses for correction. The dissatisfaction expressed by the DLSPP,
particularly in delaying actions to be taken by the MAFS project management is also related to the
weakness of management. In spite of all the difficulties, however, MAFS has done its best under the
prevailing circumstances, and is to be credited for the substantial part of the achievements made under the
project, including the introduction of an HIV/AIDS programme within the Ministry. Its performance
should, therefore, be considered as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory: The overall performance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory mainly due to unrealistic
project proposals, disruptive GOL assignment to MAFS in managing the input subsidy programme in
2001-2003, lack of effective guidance to the project by the ISC and lack of establishing strong and
workable project coordination and management.

8. Lessons Learned

·   Set and focus on key realistic outcome indicators: The lack of core measurable outcome indicators
    can detract implementation activities from core objectives with the danger of becoming more narrowly
    focused on implementation of component outputs rather than on overall project development outcomes.
    Outcomes should be realistic within the implementation timetable. This may seem like an obvious
    point, but defining more explicit measurable outcome indicators had a significant impact on the
    implementation focus of this project.

·   Avoid complex technical project designs with a multiplicity of outputs: The simpler the project the
    easier the implementation. The overly complex design, in terms of the number of output indicators
    should be prevented as it overtaxes the Government's and the Bank's capacity to focus on key actions.
    Focusing on a core set of output indicators improves implementation focus, although not necessary
    reducing the scope of the project. A multi-donor approach can provided value added on both simple
    and complex technical designs: joint missions focused on one Government program which reduced
    transaction costs for Government, allowed pooling of donor expertise to address project issues and
    implementation, and allowed more instruments for addressing problems (some donor funds could be
    used more flexibly to meet shot term unanticipated expenditures).

·   Ensure project design matches implementation capacity: There is often a danger of designing a
    project which requires capacity levels far higher than exists in the beneficiary country with the
    assumption that it will be built up during the project. Given the flexibility of the labor markets, with
    South Africa as a neighbor, built up capacity seems to move fairly rapidly as higher skilled staff find
    jobs in the private sector or other parts of Government. The high turnover of staff in Ministry
    departments has made capacity building challenging. This suggests that project design should more



                                                     - 16 -

    closely match implementation capacity which exists at the time of project preparation.

·   Reduce the amount of design issues required to be resolved during implementation: Delaying
    design issues for project implementation simply delays implementation and impact. This was
    particularly pertinent to the farmer and community support fund project which only began operations
    three years after project effectiveness. Once designed, implementation progressed fairly rapidly.

·   Undertake appropriate analytical work and consultation on policy issues to facilitate policy
    reform and prevent policy reversal: Policy change is often politically sensitive, with the losers of
    policy change often the more powerful and well connected, hence arguments for change need to be clear
    and convincing with broad consultation to ensure reform and to prevent reversal.

·   Ensure realism about agriculture potential: The relatively limited potential of agriculture in Lesotho,
    particularly in its contribution to overall economic growth, should be clearly recognized in the
    development objectives of future programs.

·   Establish a monitoring framework to guide decisions on project restructuring: When the enabling
    policy environment for effective project implementation begins to unravel in what had been a strongly
    performing country (as in the case of Lesotho after the contested elections in 1998), it is difficult to
    discern what is a temporary set back (warranting intensive supervision but only minor change in
    project design) versus a fundamental deterioration in government commitment and capacity (warranting
    significant changes such as suspension, cancellation, or restructuring). The rewrite of OP/BP 13.05 on
    Project Supervision has now strengthened the capacity of teams to respond in these situations, as it has
    made formal project restructuring a more acceptable and accessible option. A clear monitoring
    framework to guide decisions on project restructuring should be established, with continued
    management oversight.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Background Information

Lesotho is a landlocked Southern African country situated within the Republic of South Africa. Its area is
approximately just over 30,000 km2 most of which is mountainous. It has four ecological zones
distinguished by their height above sea level, they are Mountains, Foothills, Lowlands and the Senqu River
valley. The climate in Lesotho is characterised by hot summers (November to January) and cold winters
(May to July). Lesotho is divided into 10 administrative districts. The population is just over 2 million
(Bureau of statistics, 2000). Over 80% of the population reside in rural areas. It is believed that majority of
the rural dwellers earn their living from agriculture.

The Project

The Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building Project (APCBP) was a 3-year World Bank co-financed
project. APCBP formed part of a long term Programme (15 years). The original completion date was
December 2001 but an extension was granted to December, 2003. The total value of the funds was the
Maloti equivalent of US$10.98 Million. It had 4 components and 15 sub-components. APCBP covered all
the 10 districts in three of which a sister project was concurrently being implemented. The executing
agency (ies) were the now ministries of Agriculture and Food Security; Local Government; Forestry and



                                                     - 17 -

Land Reclamation; and Trade, Industry and Co-operatives and Marketing.

Objective of APCBP

The objective of the APCBP was to put in place improved institutional and policy arrangements for
sustainable and efficient management, financing and delivery of public and private agricultural services in
Lesotho. The project was expected to assist in redefining the core public roles of the ministry in view of
facilitating increased participation of the private sector in provision of agricultural support services.

Co-financiers

APCBP was co-financed by the World Bank (IDA), ADB, GTZ and DFID

Performance

The key performance areas of the project are as stipulated below as well as the extent to which there was
success in achieving them (highlighted under the component section). They include:

l Operationalisation of the UES throughout the districts,
l Development of an enabling policy (including Land Policy) environment,
l Institutional restructuring of the ministry, including, increasing private sector participation through
    privatisation of certain enterprises,

Some of the benchmarks are inter-mediate and facilitatory while others are end products.

Appropriateness of the Project

As stated earlier the APCBP was the first phase of a long-term programme of support to the sector. The
Project Concept was therefore logical, as it would not have been prudent to engage in a long-term
investment programme (the focus of the initially proposed ASIP) without enhancing the existing capacity of
the implementing agencies (a focus of the APCBP). The Objective of the project, as stated above, also
appears to have been appropriate. The manner in which the ASIP was scaled down to the APCBP may not
have been the most appropriate approach. The change from the initially envisaged ASIP to APCBP was not
very well communicated by the management to their respective individual ministry departments. This left
the implementing professionals indecisive and frustrated. These circumstances contributed to the delay in
project start-up. There were also concerns about the initial project duration of three years raised by
Departments. A general feeling was that enhancing capacity for future programmes was appropriate,
however, the time allocated seems to have been insufficient for what the project was expected to achieve.
For example, the Unified Extension Programme is a process which needed more time for Government to
determine whether it was working properly or not.

The Ministry did not, initially get all the relevant guidance from the World Bank. The project did not have
a launching workshop from which the implementers could have gained a clear understanding of the World
Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. This resulted in both the management and district staff
not understanding these procedures, which further delayed implementation. When the project finally started,
many initiatives had to be undertaken simultaneously by the same staff which made time even more limited.
The baseline surveys were carried out at a late stage of the project with the follow up evaluation survey
being carried out too soon thereafter which did not allow enough time between the two for informative
conclusions regarding the impact of the APCBP on farmers.


                                                      - 18 -

Quality of Financial Analysis/Treatment of Fiduciary Aspects

Some of the activities, which were co-funded, were delayed by the varying procurement requirements of
different financiers. DFID joined the other financing donors late in the project which created uncertainties
and inhibited progress. The Central Tender Board did not, at the beginning, understand the World Bank
procedures, which resulted in delays. Procurement procedures seemed to be slowed by delays in granting
`No Objections', both by the Central Tender Board and the World Bank. In addition, it was expected that
the project funds would be disbursed through the Treasury System, which could not accommodate the
World Bank procedures adequately. This delayed implementation by almost two years. A decision was
eventually reached to open a Current Account for the project and consequently the flow of funds improved
tremendously. Procurement and disbursement staff needed to be trained and this took time. A Financial
Management Adviser initially selected as part of the international technical assistance was also not very
helpful. An important lesson from this is that all the co-financiers should find ways to harmonise their
varying procurement and disbursement procedures and start project implementation at the same time to
avoid delays that may result if they start at different times.

Treatment of Environmental Aspects

Under APCBP a consultancy, which proved to be useful, was carried out on Environmental Planning and
Management. The objectives of this study were to:

l Provide a framework for integration of Environmental Planning and Management in the newly
    developed District Economic Strategies (DESs),
l Develop practical guidelines for conducting environmental analysis in line with the existing legislation
    on environment and other related documents,
l Review Institutional arrangements in the National Environment Secretariat (NES) and the Ministry of
    Agriculture, both HQ and district level and make recommendations to strengthen the integration of
    environmental planning in the sector, and
l Conduct training sessions for the staff in these institutions.


Components

Sector Strategy and Management

Much was achieved in this component. An Agricultural Sector Strategy was developed which included
departmental, divisional and subsidy policies. It is worth noting that some of the activities undertaken were
not necessarily part of the pre-set objectives of the project but proved to be crucial as implementation
continued. The monitoring and evaluation guidelines were developed. A baseline study was undertaken and
a follow-up study was also carried out. The time lapse between these two, however, is viewed as
insufficient to make evaluation conclusions on project impact. Staff turnover inhibited continuity of some
activities of this component.

Agricultural Support Services

The Unified Extension System, the main element of this component, is operational countrywide, together
with the Community Action Plans (CAPs), which are now well appreciated by the extensionist staff, NGOs
and the farmers. About 170 Farmer Community and Support Fund (FCSF) Projects were implemented.
Several civil works were also completed under this component. An office block was constructed for the


                                                      - 19 -

DAO Maseru, a veterinary clinic built in Mafeteng and a soils lab constructed for agricultural research.
Some tasks, such as research studies, were not performed satisfactorily as different procedural measures
from different co-financiers resulted in major delays. A livestock marking and registration process was
initiated which was a very beneficial exercise even though it was not originally part of the APCBP
objectives. A post mortem lab was also constructed. A study on Market Liberalisation was also completed.
The most consultative national forum on liberalisation was held following ten district consultations.
Subsequent to this, policies were developed and are part of the Agricultural Sector Strategy.

Land Management and Administration

A draft Land Policy was prepared, following the Land Policy Review Commission's report. A draft Land
Bill has subsequently been prepared and is ready for further discussion and adoption at the political level
(parliament). The Land Acquisition and Compensation Bill together with the revised Town and Country
Planning Bill have also been drafted but consultations are still on-going before they can be submitted to the
Attorney General Chambers. Several civil works were completed, these were office blocks in Botha-Bothe,
Berea and Mafeteng.

Change Process Management

The Ministerial Strategic Plan was prepared on which basis the Ministry was restructured and rationalised
resulting in the total reduction of the Ministerial establishment by over 30% in 2003/2004 and envisaged
68% by the end of 2005/2006 with a Headquarter to District ratio of 20%:80%.

Disbursement (2), procurement (2) and accounting (11 - Project Accountant, Financial Controller and 9
districts Senior Accountants) staff were trained in accounting computer software known as
FINPRO/TOMPRO from which periodic financial reports are produced. In addition, 358 and 291
employees were trained in Employee Counselling and Entrepreneurial Skills respectively. Lack of prompt
honouring of the WAs on the part of ADB also became a delaying factoring in this component as was often
the case in others.

Sustainability of Achievements

The UES and FCSF activities will be sustained as they were budgeted for in FY 2004/05. Provision has
also been made to continue with privatisation of the remaining enterprises, and deregulation of the
remaining commodities. The process is therefore on-going. Continuation of Livestock Marking and
Registration has been budgeted for, and the process is on-going.

Lessons learned

l The implementation experience of this project suggests that synchronicity on the part of donors in
     future will be of great importance.
l The expectations/objectives of the project should not be too ambitious.
l Key personnel should be identified for key positions in the Ministry.
l Capacity of personnel should be sufficient to achieve the intended objective.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                    - 20 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Outcome/Impact Indicator:

Indicator                                      Projected in PAD                         Actual/Latest Estimate

Operationalization of Unified        · Operational in all 10 districts     · Operational in 10 districts
Extension System (UES)

Improved land legislation            · Improved land legislation in place  · Land Reform process has been approved
                                                                             by Cabinet. The Bill had not yet been
                                                                             submitted to Parliament.
Institutional restructuring of MOA
· Headquarters                       · Restructured with removal of        · Non-core units have been transferred; new
                                      non-core units                         national structure has not yet been
                                                                             approved by MoPS
· District offices [including staff  · 10 offices restructured             · 65 percent of all positions in newly
  decentralization]                                                          approved district office structure have been
                                                                             filled
· Technical services                 · Rationalized                        · Background studies complete

· Privatization                      · 16 enterprises privatized           · 4 enterprises liquidated; 1 privatized

MAFS recurrent expenditures          · 15 percent reduction                · 20 percent decline (priori to split of
                                                                             Ministry)
                                     · 60 percent spent at district level  · 53 percent

Financial Management                 · Disaggregated accounting system     · Accountants have been posted in each
                                      for districts operational              district
                                                                           · Dissaggregated accounting system in place
Public expenditure review            · Completed                           · Completed

Output Indicators:

Component 1: Sector Strategy and Management

Policy Analysis
Government interventions
· Tractor hire services              · Phased out                          · Tractors in TOU reduced by 70 percent
· Restrictive import licenses        · Phased out                          · Deregulation schedule has been submitted
                                                                             to Cabinet for approval
· Fertilizer supply                  · Phased out                          · Cabinet has issued a policy directive on
· Distortionary use of commodity     · Phased out                            the use of input subsidies
  aid

(Agricultural) Economic Strategy     · Prepared                            · Strategy completed

Incentive framework and supporting   · In place                            · New UES program development
extension services to promote                                              · Improving incentives through policy
environmentally-sustainable land use                                         change is on-going
Planning and budgeting
Agricultural planning and budgeting  · Conforms with district              · Guideline prepared and are operational,
                                      development planningand                although there is still a disconnect between
                                      budgeting                              districts and national level on activity
                                                                             based budgeting
Public expenditure review                                                  · Public expenditure analysis undertaken
                                     · Prepared                              and medium-term framework developed



                                                        - 22 -

Long-term policy framework                                                 · Agricultural Strategy developed
                                     · Updated annually
Monitoring/Management Information
M&E and MIS system                   · Operational                         · Operational
Baseline surveys for UES             · Undertaken                          · Baseline and follow-up survey undertaken
Sector performance analysis/data     · Prepared annually                   · Partially completed

Component 2: Agricultural Support Services

Extension
District (Agricultural) Economic     · Prepared                            · 10 district strategies completed
Strategies
Operationalization of Unified        · Operational in all 10 districts     · Operational in 10 districts
Extension System (UES)
Work-planning and reporting system   · Clear system in place               · System in place
Community Action Plans               · Not specified                       · 162 prepared, 95 under implementation
Farming and Community Support        · Not specified                       · 140 projects approved and implemented
Fund
Extension service delivery outsourced· 20 percent outsourced               · Not yet commenced
Research
Research agenda                      · Agreed based on (i) client's needs  · No agreement reached
                                      formulated under the DESs; and (ii)
                                      other pertinent factors available
                                      contributions from SA research,
                                      staffing/incentives and climatic
                                      constraints
Institutional arrangements to carry  · Finalized                           · Not yet finalized
out research, including outsourcing

Component 3: Land Management and Administration

Land Policy
Land Policy Review Commission        · Appointed                           · Appointed and work completed
Deeds registry and Land Use          · Transferred to MOLG                 · Transferred to MoLG
Planning                             · Improved land legislation in place  · Land Reform process has been approved
Improved land legislation                                                   by Cabinet. The Bill had not yet been
                                                                            submitted to Parliament.
Land information system              · Improved and established            · Not complete
Land information system              · Modernized and updated              · Not complete
Land records
Land use planning                    · Elaborated and piloted              · Incomplete
Land use planning guidelines

Component 4: Change Process Management

Institutional restructuring
Institutional location of MOA        · Reviewed with action plan for       · Completed together with transfer
non-core units                        transfer
District offices                     · 10 offices restructured reflecting  · 65 percent of all positions in newly
                                      needs of DESs                         approved district office structure have been
Research institutions                · Rationalized                         filled
                                     · Functioning as APCBP steering       · Not yet complete. The plan is to merge
                                      committee                             agricultural research with the agricultural
                                                                            college
District Development Committee                                             · Not yet accomplished
Human Resource Management
Staff inventory for HQ and districts · Completed                           · Completed
Ghost workers                        · Eliminated                          · Significant progress. Ongoing
Human resource management policy     · Defined and approved                · Defined and approved
Benchmarks for staffing levels and   · Completed                           · Completed
staff rationalization



                                                        - 23 -

Staffing rationalization             · Meet defined benchmarks annually    · Ongoing
Financial Management
Accountants                          · Posted in 10 ditricts               · Posted in 10 ditricts
Disaggregated accounting system      · In place                            · In place
Privatization and divestiture
Privatization                        · 16 enterprises privatized           · 4 enterprises liquidated; 1 privatized
Veterinary services                  · Privatization framework, including  · Studies completed
                                       legal aspects in place
                                     · 50% of clinical veterinary services · Not achieved
                                      and 100% of drug supply delivered
                                      by    private sector
Paravets                             · Operatinal in 10 districts          · Not achieved
Co-ordination
Change Management Team (local        · In place                            · In place but replaced by Change
and external)                                                               Leadership Committee
Representatives of civil society and · Included in APCBP steering          · Not carried out. Only the Chamber of
private sector                        committee                             Commerce was included




                                                        - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                Estimate          Estimate            Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million        US$ million
Sector Strategy and Management                                     0.56                 1.46                261
Agricultural Support Services                                      0.58                 2.46                424
Land Administration and Management                                 1.58                 0.80                 51
Changes Process Management                                         4.08                 1.89                 46

Total Baseline Cost                                                6.80                 6.61
                          Total Project Costs                      6.80                 6.61
                    Total Financing Required                       6.80                 6.61

The significant differences between component costs envisaged at appraisal and the actual costs by project
end was due to the uncertainty of donor commitments at the start of the project, with the EU eventually
pulling out altogether. Once donor financing had been finalized after effectiveness, the estimates for Sector
Strategy and Management, Agricultural Support Services, Land Administration and Management, and
Change Process management were 1.22; 1.67; 1.12; and 2.79 respectively; of which cost by project end, as
a percent of these estimates were 120%; 147%; 71%; and 68%.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                 Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.29               0.00             0.41            0.70
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.42            0.23               0.00             0.57            1.22
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00               1.22             1.56            2.78
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Training/work shops               0.00            0.00               0.17             0.33            0.50
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Operating Costs                   0.00            1.02               0.00             0.58            1.60
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Unallocated                       0.00            0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                             0.42            1.54               1.39             3.45            6.80
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)




                                                  - 25 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.97              0.00             0.00              0.97
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                0.74               0.00              0.53             0.29              1.56
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.01             0.00              3.01
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Training/work shops                  0.00               0.00              0.53             0.00              0.53
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.54             0.00              0.54
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.74               0.97              4.61             0.29              6.61
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Sector Strategy and            0.56                                  1.46                               260.7
Management
Agricultural Support           0.59                                  2.46                               416.9
Services
Land Management and            1.58                                  0.80                               50.6
Administration
Change Process                 4.08                                  1.89                               46.3
Management




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

See Section 4.3.

During implementation a number of useful economic analyses were undertaken including on:

l Costs and benefits of the liberalization of various commodities: An economic analysis was undertaken
   on the costs (losers) and benefits (winners) of deregulation of commodity marketing for thirteen
   commodities. Following ten district consultations (with farmers, traders and consumers) to solicit views
   on the proposed de-regulation, a draft review report was prepared including recommendations for each
   of the controlled commodities. The report findings were based on a fairly thorough process, reviewing
   the case for liberalization with recommendations being made on the way forward for each. The general
   conclusions from the study are that: (i) in most cases where regulations were put in place to encourage
   increased output, very little success has been achieved in terms of positive impact on promoting local
   production and price incentives for producers (borders are long and porous); (ii) costs of administering
   and enforcing protection and the costs of protection of the consumer in terms of higher prices, are
   generally not off-set by the benefits; (iii) import protection is not an efficient means of dealing with the
   problems that exist in the sector; and (iv) complementary intervention on ensuring fair trade practices
   and food safety are needed. The recommendations group the proposals into: immediate liberalization
   (bread, fruits and vegetables, pulses, pullets and day old chicks, chicken meat and eggs), regulation still
   required (livestock, read meat, wool and mohair), changes needed in the nature of the regulation (milk
   and dairy products), and no change recommended (sugar and hides and skins). The results were
   presented to a national workshop submitted to Cabinet for approval.

   The process of preparing the deregulation schedule has been long but useful in terms of building
   consensus for change and providing a useful learning experience to those associated staff who worked
   on the review within the Department of Policy and Planning in the MAFS, and the Department of
   Marketing in the MTICM. While the analysis would have been useful during preparation, it was
   appropriate to be undertaken during implementation, as one of the key focus areas was policy and
   capacity building on which this activity focused. As the reforms are yet to be implementation, an
   ex-post economic impact evaluation was not possible.

l The economic impact of the 2002 subsidy program: A study of crop input subsidies was undertaken in
   2002/3 in an effort the re-evaluate their rationale. The study reviewed the costs and benefits of past
   subsidy schemes, with a detailed review of the subsidy program implemented in 2002/03 in response to
   the food situation. The program provided a 50 percent ploughing, fertilizer and seed subsidy (100
   percent subsidy upfront with 50 percent repayment at the end of the season). The program attempted to
   plough and plant every field in Lesotho. The cost of the subsidy program was as large as the budget for
   the MAFS. The review highlighted several failings of the 2002 scheme. The program was: untargeted
   and operated on a first come first serve basis which significantly increased the cost of the program with
   benefits less likely to be captured by the most needy farmers; fiscally unaffordable with the program
   being downsized significantly even after a 10 percent reallocation from other Ministries for the
   Government response, together with a freeze on special expenditures; it had an adverse private sector
   impact on fertilizer and seed distributors in the country and did not adequately include the private
   sector in the design of the program; promoted production on marginal lands which without subsidies
   was unprofitable, inhibiting diversification by perpetuating a particularly type of production practice;
   and continued dependency and expectations of farmers. The Government response turned out to be an
   almost implicit 100 percent subsidy (free ploughing, seeds and fertilizer) with extremely low recovery
   rates. Although crop production last year was slightly lower than the previous two years, it was only



                                                    - 27 -

  marginally below the long term average.

  The review could have been more quantitative, however was useful in generating further debate on
  future subsidy programs. Subsequently a new subsidy policy was prepared and submitted to Cabinet,
  providing a valuable basis for future decisions on support to the sector. The policy's general principles
  are that subsidies will be transitional and cost effective and will be used to achieve poverty reduction,
  food security, and foster private sector driven agricultural development through improved efficiency
  and sustainability.

l The economic implications of the new land act: An analysis of the economic implications of the
  proposed new land act was undertaken. The greatest impact of the policy will likely be on commercial
  and industrial development which is expected to occur in two main ways. First, by facilitating the
  development of an efficient land/property market; and second, by giving greater scope to foreign
  investors to acquire leases. Presently, the land/property market barely exists, not for its lack of
  potential, but because it is inhibited by the present legislation and land administration system.
  Removing these constraints would improve investment opportunities for property values, and by
  extension for the banking sector. Secondary impact of freeing up the urban/peri-urban property market
  would also be significant, not least being the realization of greater revenue from property rates and
  transfer duties. The land act will also facilitate urbanization in Lesotho and provides prospects for
  large increases in land related revenues. The agriculture sector will also benefit, but to a lesser extent,
  although it could have a significant impact on improving rangeland management.

  It was commendable that the analysis was undertaken during the preparation of the new Land Act to
  assist in guiding its preparation. While a cost-benefit analysis would have been useful, the full costs of
  implementation of the Act will only be known once the local government structures have been finalized,
  following, local government elections and reform. Nevertheless, not withstanding its usefulness, the
  analysis could have benefited from additional quantitative analysis.

l The cost effectiveness of various implementation modalities of the UES: A detailed ex-ante
  cost-effectiveness analysis of using Farmer Resource Centres for the delivery of the UES was
  undertaken. The cost per hour of contact time was calculated under various scenarios including: no
  farmer resource centres or sub-centres (i.e. operating from district level); farmer resource centres but
  no sub-centres; and both farmer resource centres and sub-centres. The study findings indicated that it is
  not cost-effective for the extension service to operate only from the District headquarters, the relative
  cost effectiveness of sub-centre and farmer resource centres depend on travel conditions to the target
  population in individual districts. Hence a blended approach was suggested dependant on geographic
  location. The recurrent budget estimated for the scenarios were close to the annually budgeted amounts
  for district level expenditures suggesting that the establishment of resource centres and sub-centres
  were sustainable under prevailing Government budgets.

  The analysis directly contributed to the design and implementation of the UES, and hence was useful,
  again not only for the UES but for capacity building on policy analysis for the Department of Planning
  and Policy Analysis. The analysis was quantitatively rigorous, more so than the three studies listed
  above.

l The quantification of the impact of restructuring plans on the Ministry of Agriculture budget: A
 detailed analysis of the impact of restructuring plans (aligning district agricultural offices to the needs
 of the District Economic Strategies, and privatization and divestiture). The analysis provided expected
 trends in the MAFS budget and its split between national and district level to determine if restructuring


                                                   - 28 -

was financially feasible. The analysis suggested that the savings of the implementation of the
privatization/divestiture program could be used to restructure the district offices; costs of restructuring
districts offset in part the savings generated by a concomitant restructuring of central headquarters; and
costs of implementing the UES in districts was off-set by savings generated by a dismantling of
existing structures.




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Pre-appraisal
              October 1997            14     Agricultural Economist (1),
                                             Agriculturist (1),
                                             Land Policy & Manag. (1),
                                             Budget and Costs (1),
                                             Sector Policy & Strategy (1),
                                             Financial Management (1),
                                             Decentralization Special. (1),
                                             Planning/Budgeting-DFID (2),
                                             Institutional Restructuring-DFID
                                             (2),
                                             IFAD Representative (1),
                                             EU Representative (1),
                                             AfDB Representative (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May 1998                17     Agricultural Economist (1),
                                             Agriculturist (1),
                                             Costing/Budgeting (1),
                                             Land Tenure (1),
                                             Financial Management (1),
                                             Legal Counsel (2),
                                             Procurement (2),
                                             Environment (2),
                                             Decentralization (2),
                                             Donor Representations (4)

 Supervision

              February 1999             9    Agriculturist (1)                    U               S
                                             Land (1)
                                             Financial Management (1)
                                             Policy (1)
                                             Economist-DFID (1)
                                             Land Reform-GTZ (1)
                                             Privatization-DfDB (1)
                                             Policy/Institutions-EU (2)

              December 1999             8    Agriculturist (1)                    U               S
                                             Financial Management (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)
                                             Economic Policy-DFID (1)
                                             Land Reform-GTZ (1)
                                             Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)
                                             Policy-EU (1)

              July 2000                 6    Economist (1)                        S               S



                                              - 30 -

                    Financial Management (1)
                    Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)
                    Land Reform-GTZ (1)
                    Privatization-AfDB (1)
                    Policy-EU (1)

December 2000    6  Agriculturist (1)                 S    S
                    Privatization-AfDB (1)
                    Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)
                    Policy-EU (1)
                    Land Reform-GTZ (1)
                    Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)

July 2001        7  Economist (1)                     S    S
                    Financial Management (1)
                    Agriculturist (1)
                    Land (1)
                    Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)
                    Land Reform-GTZ (1)
                    Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)

November 2001    6  Economist (1)                     S    S
                    Policy/Institutions-DFIF (1)
                    Land Reform-GTZ (1)
                    Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)
                    Privatization-AfDB (1)
                    Policy/Agr. Services-IFAD (1)

July 2002        11 Economist (1)                     S    S
                    Agriculturist (1)
                    Financial Management (1)
                    Land (1)
                    Environment (1)
                    Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)
                    Land/Decentralization-GTZ (1)
                    Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)
                    Agricultural Services-UNOPS (2)
                    Privatization-AfDB (1)

December 2002    7  Economist (1)                     U    U
                    Agriculturist (1)
                    Financial Management (1)
                    Environment (1)
                    Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)
                    Land/Decentralization-GTZ (1)
                    Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)

July 2003        8  Economist (1)                     U    U
                    Agriculturist (1)
                    Land (1)
                    Financial Management (1)
                    Policy (1)
                    Policy/Institutions-DFID (1)



                    - 31 -

                                           Land/Decentralization-GTZ (1)
                                           Agricultural Services-GTZ (1)

               December 2003           3   Economist (1)                         U    U
                                           Policy/Institutions - DFID (1)
                                           Financial Management (1)

 ICR
               November 2003          2     Economist (1)                        U    U
                                            Institutions Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Pre-appraisal                        385.5                           1,094.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 13.4                             100.4
  Supervision                          106.5                             667.6
  ICR                                   10.0                              55.0
  Total                                515.4                           1,917.5




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents

1.  Pre-Appraisal Aide-Mémoire (October 1997)
2.  Development Credit Agreement (October 7, 1998)
3.  Project Appraisal Document (May 28, 1998)
4.  Supervision Reports (see Annex 4a)

Background Studies/Reports

5.  Sectoral Round Table Consultation ­ Agriculture: A Strategic Programme of Action, Ministry of Agriculture,
    Cooperatives and Marketing, March 1996.
6.  Pathway Out of Poverty ­ An Action Plan for Lesotho, Government of Lesotho, Lesotho Council of NGOs,
    World Bank, USAID and EU, March 1996.
7.  Lesotho ­ Development in a Challenging Environment: A Joint World Bank-African Development Bank
    Evaluation, Fareed M.A. Hassan, 2002.

Project Studies/Reports

8.  Agricultural Sector Strategy ­ Statement of Policy and Strategy in the Agricultural Sector, Ministry of
    Agriculture and Food Security, August 2003.
9.  Subsidies in the Agricultural Sector ­ Policy Statement and Implementation Framework, Ministry of
    Agriculture and Food Security, May 2003.
10. The Liberalization of Agricultural Commodity Production and Marketing, Ministry of Industry, Trade and
    Marketing, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, Draft, February 13, 2003.
11. District Economic Strategy 2002-2007, Mokhotlong, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land
    Reclamation, 2002.
12. District Economic Strategy, Botha Bothe, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, April
    2002.
13. Farming and Community Support Fund Guidelines, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land
    Reclamation, Revised, February 2002.
14. Guidelines for Action Learning Cycle, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, May 15,
    2002.
15. Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural and Related Activities, Ministry of Agriculture,
    Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, November 2001, revised September 2002.
16. Baseline Survey Report, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, 2001.
17. Report on Change Management Consultancy, Colin Risner, February 2002.
18. Strategic Planning Framework 2001-2004, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, July
    2001.
19. Unified Extension System for Lesotho, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation, March
    2001.
20. APCBP Progress Reports, Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Land Reclamation.
21. Draft Land Legislation, Ministry of Local Government.




                                                       - 35 -

Annex 8: Operationalization of the Unified Extension System

Table 2: Extension Training, Community Action Plans, and Farmer and Community Support Funds Projects
by District


District            Extension Staff Number of              CAPs            CAPs under              Number of     FCSFs
                       Trained in         RCs/ EAs       prepared        implementation          RCs/EAs were  Implemented
                         Action                                                                CAPs are under
                        Learning                                                                implementation
                       Cycle (%)

Leribe                     100                 7             10                  6                      6           5
Mafeteng                   100                 7             17                  8                      5          11
Mokhotlong                 90                  6             13                  11                     6          14
Botha Bothe                100                 6             22                  11                     6          25
Berea                      100                 6             22                  8                      6          15
Thaba Tseka                100                 6              8                  7                      6           6
Maseru                     100                 7             13                  10                     5           8
Qacha's Nek                90                  6             26                  8                      2          12
Mohale's Hoek              90                  8             20                  15                     7          30
Quthing                    100                 7             11                  11                     7          14

Total                      96                 66            162                  95                    56         140



Table 3: Main type of Farmer and Community Support Fund Projects

Grouping                                                           Number                    Percent
Livestock                                                             66                        47
Fruit and vegetables                                                  31                        22
Tree nurseries                                                        23                        17
Conservation                                                          11                         8
Other                                                                  9                         6
Total                                                                140                       100
The top six projects include: irrigation/vegetable production; poultry; tree nursery; veterinary services;
small stock and conservation which accounts for about 80 percent of projects.




                                                              - 36 -

Annex 9: Land Reform

Seq   Date                 Activity                                          Comments
1          28/12/1999      Date for the gazette establishing the Land        The official date for the commencement of
                           Policy Review Commission (LPRC)                   the Land Management and Administration
                                                                             component
2         January 2000     Consultations to initialize the review process and
                           develop a work schedule and budget for the
                           LPRC
3        Feb ­ Sep 2000    Nationwide Land Policy review process             Consultations included 191 public gatherings
                           including international study tours to Germany,   and 253 oral and written submissions
                           Malaysia and Uganda.
4          28/09/2000      Report of the LPRC was submitted
5          30/10/2000      LPRC's Report adopted as official Government      Report published and distributed by
                           working document                                  LSPP
6          Feb 2001        Development of first draft land policy            Local team supported by DFID consultants
7      25/03 ­ 03/04/2001  Study tour to Botswana by Land Policy
                           Team
8          April 2001      Consultations in Mafeteng on adoption of the      The outcome was a matrix detailing issues
                           recommendations of the Land Policy Review         for adoption and rationale thereof
                           Commission
9        June ­July 2001   Development of Draft White Paper on Land          Including lessons from Botswana and
                           Policy 2nd Version                                Mafeteng consultations
10         29/08/2001      Presentation of Draft Land Policy at Informal
                           Cabinet meeting
11         29/09/2001      Second Presentation at Informal Cabinet meeting
12         17/12/2001      Third Presentation at Informal Cabinet meeting    Number of inputs from the meetings noted
13         July 2002       Land Policy vision developed                      Misunderstanding of Cabinet requirement of
                                                                             Land Law as priority rather than Land Policy
14       November 2002     Working session lead by Hon. Minster of Local     The new matrix formed the Ministry's inputs
                           Government to review the Matrix on issues to be in the development of the land legislation,
                           adopted from the Land Policy Review               supported and facilitated by GTZ
                           Commission's recommendations.
15       Feb ­ Dec 2003    Land Code development covering Land Bill,         Land Bill is currently with Parliamentary
                           Land Acquisition and Compensation Bill,           Counsel for tabling in Parliament soon,
                           and revised Town and Country Planning             Consultations on Land Acquisition Bill are
                           Act                                               ongoing and Town and Country Planning Act
                                                                             is being finalised
16    February ­ July 2003 Development of options for Resourcing and         The role of Local Authorities within the
                           Financing of the implementation of the new Land Local Government Act 1997 guiding the
                           Act                                               institutional arrangements and the Land Bill.
17       Feb ­ July 2003   Finalizing the National land Policy inline with   The Policy will be adopted to reflect the final
                           the Land Bill.                                    version of the Land Act (i.e. provide for
                                                                             incorporation of all changes emanating from
                                                                             Parliament in the Land Act)
18       December 2003     Translation into Sesotho of LPRC's report




                                                      - 37 -

Annex 10: Institutional Restructuring

Total Change in Ministry of Agriculture Structure: The actual number of staff employed by MOACLR has
declined by about 35 percent.

Table 4: Summary of Headquarters Restructuring

Transfers from Ministry of Agriculture Co-operartives and Land Reclamation:
Department of Youth Affairs to the Ministry of Gender, Youth and Sports
Lesotho Agricultural College to the University
Land Use Planning to Ministry of Local Government
Marketing Department to the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Marketing
Conservation and Land Reclamation to Ministry of Forestry and Land Reclamation
Department of Co-operatives to Ministry of Industry, Trade and Marketing


Table 5: Summary of Privatization and Divestiture

Enterprise                                       Status

Privatization
1. Mejametalana Vegetable Farm                   Privatized (leased for twenty year period)
2. Tsalitlama Vegetable Farm                     Re-tendering for privatization
3. Molimo Nthuse Pony Trekking Center            Re-tendering for privatization
4. Woolsheds                                     Negotiations underway with Wool and Mohair Association for privatization
5. Mokhotlong and Quthing Sheep Studs            Negotiations underway with Wool and Mohair Association for privatization
6. Feedlot                                       To be privatized by Privatization Unit

Liquidation
8. Thaba-Tseka National Stud Farm                Liquidated
9. National Pig Breeding Farm                    Liquidated
10. Bots'abelo Dairy Farm                        Liquidated
11. Tsakholo Fish Farm                           Liquidated
12. Technical Operations Unit                    Partially divested
13. Forestry Sale Yards & Treatment Plants       Partially divested
14. Poultry Plant                                Transferred to NUL, but the retransferred back to MAFS
Woodlots                                         Envisaged that transfer of woodlots to communities will commence in 2005

Restructuring
15. Veterinary Services                          Awaiting conclusion of Reform and Restructuring Review
16. Farmer Training Centers                      To be transferred to local authorities following local government elections


Table 6: Changes to the Technical Operations Unit (TOU) over Project Lifetime

                                                          1998/9                 2003/4                       % Change
Number of Tractors                                         200                          59                      -70
Number of Combine Harvesters                                20                          20                        0
Total budget (Nominal)                                 M7.2 million               M5 million                    -30
Share of Ministry of Agriculture Budget                   30-35                        6-7                      -25




                                                           - 38 -

- 39 -

