KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
E-303
VOL. 1
AGRICULTURAL POLICY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT (APCBP)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
April 1998
Geomnetric Technology Corporation, Fairfax, Virginia, USA, has prepared this report in accordance with the instructions
of the Government of Lesotho and the O.D. 4.01 of the World Bank



TABLE OF CONTENT
Executive Summary
List of Abbreviation
1. Introduction
II. Methodology
111. Environmental Setting
111(a). Initial Conditions
IV. Project Objectives
V.  Scope of Work
VI.  Project Rationale
VII.  Statutory, Framework
VII(a). National Environmental Action Plans
VIII. Project Description
IX.   Probable Impacts of the Project
IX(a). The Possible Positive Impacts
IX(b). The Possible Negative Impacts
lXb(l). The Physical Impact
IXb(2). The Socio-Economic Impact
IXb(3). The Political Impact
X.   Mitigation Measures
XI.  Monitoring and Evaluation
XII. Recommendations
XIII. Terms of Reference for EA APCBP in Lesotho
XIV. List of Publications
XV. List of Persons Contacted
Acknowledgement
2



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. Preamble
1. The Kingdom of Lesotho. a Southern African country, is a mountainous, land-locked state. whollv
surrounded bv the Republic of South Africa, lving between latitudes 28 degrees and 31 degrees south and
longitudes 27 degrees and 30 degrees east. The total area is 30,355 sq. kin, and it is the only sovereign country
in the world surrounded by one other country. Lesotho is ethnically homogeneous, with the Lesotho Language
spoken by virtuallv all the indigenous population. Lesotho. along with English as the second language, are the
official languages. The population of Lesotho is about two (2) million (1994), and is projected to be about
2-114,000 bv the year 2000 with an annual growth rate of 2.6%.
2. Four broad agro-ecological or geographical zones, demarcated bv ascending altitude, extend approximately
north-south across Lesotho, and the landform, soil, climatic and vegetational characteristics of those zones
largely determine their land-use. The zones are: Mountains (or Highlands), Foothills, Lowlands, and Sengu
River 'Valley. General elevations exceed 1,000 metres with the highland peaks rising to 3,299 metres above sea
level. The terrain is generallv rugged with steep slopes and fragile soil formations.
3. Sheet wash and rill erosion is common on the mountains, particularly on overgrazed range and cultivated
land. The lowland area is particularly prone to erosion which is exacerbated by long term inappropriate land
use. Gullies or dongas" are a prominent feature of the landscape.
4. Lesotho has a cool sub-tropical climate with conditions largely determined by altitude and subject to wide
seasonal and geographical variations. Mean annual precipitation varies from 600mm. in the southern and
western lowlands to more than 1600mm. in the north-eastern highlands, where frost, heavy snowvfall and hail
storms are common during winiter months. Sengu Valley, in the rain shadow of the Maluti mountains, is
significantly drier with an annual total of 500-600nim. There is considerable annual variation in rainfall totals,
and the country remains vulnerable to recurrent periods of droughts. Much of the rain falls in intense localized
thunderstorms, and hailstorms are common.
5. The natural vegetation of Lesotho is dominated by grassland, and by indigenous shrubs in some mountain
areas. The present vegetation is regarded as a sub-climax resulting from human interference and modification.
Much of the country has become denuded of its natural grass cover through uncontrolled grazing and rushing
surface water. Related problems are severe soil erosion, soil exhaustion and declining fertility, and
desertification. Pure drinking water is available to 43% of the population in both the urban and rural areas.
6. The environmental conditions of Lesotho render it particularly prone to land degradation and soil erosion
by water. Land is often steeply sloping and intense rainstorms, together with hail and frost promote the
detachment of soil particles. Geological erosion, as a result of exfoliation which is a natural process, is greatly
accelzrated by inappropriate land use. The Lesotho environment is very fragile and given the interplay of the
forces of wind and water on its barren surface, soil degradation and soil fertility reduction and polluted water
resources are major environmental problems.
7. Agriculture. which is the main economic activity for more than 80% of the population, continues to suffer
from long term decline in production. For instance, domestic food production fell short of national
requirements by 45% in 1990. Farmland is scarce, and only 9% of the total land area is suitable arable
agiiculture and 66% for grazing. The area of cultivation has declined by a third in the past three decades to
300.000 hectares in the 1990s. Many factors, both natural and human-made, have contributed to this reduction,
including: drought, soil erosion, the system of land tenure, unsustainable land management practices and
excessive livestock numbers.
8. In order to address the environmental issues of the country and help arrest the degradation of this fragile
natural resource base. the Government of Lesotho (GOL) in collaboration with its dc nor partners. prepared the
countrv's first national environmental strategic framework, the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP),
3



defining the strategies. the necessarn legislative framework and regulating mechanism required to protect.
control. enforce. and monitor the use of the country's poor natural resources.
9. The objectives and goals of the Agricultural Policy Capacity Building Project (APCBP) are to mitigate the
above rajor constraints on the country's economic and agricultural sectors by putting in place policy
arrangements that will provide food security and create jobs as basis for alleviating poverty and reducing
unemployment, as well as. provide the enabling environment for increased private-sector participation in the
delivery services to enhance agricultural production for Lesotho.
II. Statutorv Framework
1O. In the GOL's bid to address poverty reduction and sustain macroeconomic performance through greater
integration into the sub-regional economy, it has adopted an outward oriented strategy involving a program of
economic. policy and institutional reform. The reform involves the liberalization of trade and commercial
activity and the privatization of state owned enterprises (SOEs) and assets. As part of the reform, the
Govemment is also facilitating a long-term agricultural development framework, the Agricultural Sector
Development Program (ASDP). which ultimately has led to a full fledged Agricultural Sector Investment
Program (ASIP).
I l. The APCBP fits very wvcll into the overall strategy as the first phase of the Ion -term ASDP and ASIP
framework, with the goals of developing government's capacity through institutional reform and
decentralization. improving the enabling policy environment for supporting the private sector development, as
well as, promoting a comprehensive approach to the natural resource environment.
12. This policy initiative fits into the framework of the country's natural resources management policies and
the private sector development policies set up by the government and embodied in the following undertakings:
X the National Environmental Policy of Lesotho;
* tle Environment Bill (1997) currently passing through Parliament;
* Lesotho Land Policy and Administration;
e the Natural Enviromnent and Heritage C(ompensation, Rural Development and Public Health;
* the National Action Plan to Implement Agenda 21 for Lesotho;
* the Workshop on the Extension Approach for Lesotho, organized by the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA).
the National Forum on Natural Resource Management, Combating Desertification and Mitigating
the Effects of Drought, organized by the National Environmental Secretariat (NES);
* the National Tree Planting Program at Masite-Maseru District, led by the King of Lesotho in
March, 1998: and
* the Working Papers on Lesotho ASIR
13. T he main thrust of the policy reform in general, and the various government undertakings to date, is to
focus on the broad endorsement and adoption of the core principles of an outward looking economy in which
government plays the role of a facilitator, instead of a service provider and controller, so that the private sector
could emerge and generate sustainable economic growth.
14. To attain the objective of these undertakings, the major test will be the responsiveness of the private
sector to the enablin-g policy environmen-t. For the public sector, the test will require increased implementation
of capacitv building and policy sequencing according to priorities; institutional and human resources
development: improved planning; adequate donor coordination; judicious development of infrastructure and
puttinig into place implementable environmental policies and actions.
15. IThe priority areas needed for policy reforms in the APBCP are: extension and research; animal health;
availabilitv of seed and planting materials; and land use planning, based on a decentralized delivery process by
underpinning the largely capacity building operations with some selected pilot production type activities with a
system of monitoring and environmental impact assessment, and financing of projects that are itn line with the
4



ASIP objectives and strategies.
III. Probable Impacts of the Project
16. The APCBP would generally lead to some changes in the ecological setting of areas to be developed. To a
great extent the project will have impacts on the physical environment. as well as, on the socio-economic and
political environment of Lesotho. From the assessment in general, the project's impact on the natural
envilonmenEt and on the social and economic fabric is globally positive.
Illa: The Possible Positive Impacts
17. The APCBP would generally provide food security, poverty alleviation, and increased private sector
participation in the delivery of agricultural production services. The project would contribute to the
improvement in the policy environment and put in place a more sustainable and client responsive agricultural
support services at the local level (i.e. below the District Level). This will enable the smallholder farmers be in
a better position to respond to market incentives, and improve the management of their farm business and
incomes.
1 8. The project will contribute to the creation of productive employment for the relatively young population
and may eventually reduce the emigration to South Africa of the country's disciplined labor force. With the
improvement of the quality of life through employment creation, the production capacity of the private sector
will be reinforced. thereby having significant positive impact on the national economy, as well as, the natural
environment. An improved economy will also afford GOL the possibility of improving the village
infrastructure, communications, and social services for the rural and larger population.
19. From the environmental health perspective. the project will afford the general population food security,
improved dietary intake and reduced malnutrition, especially infant malnutrition. Although AIDS and other
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are not wide spread in the country, mak-ing young people financially
independent will hopefully minimize the temptations for prostitution and emigration outside the country.
20. In general, the positive impacts of the APCBP will include:
- reversal of the long tern decline in production and productivitv by increasing g domestic food
production (which fell short of national requirements by 45% in 1990);
- prevent the continual decline in arable land and scarcity of farmland, and stop the
increase in landlessness;
- utilize and hamess more efficiently the country's greatest natural asset of water resources, which are
now being developed through the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWV), by transferring water to
South Africa and generating electricity for Lesotho.
IIIb: The Possible Negative Impact
21. Potential negative impacts due to the project may occur on the physical environment, as well as, on the
socio-economic and political relationships of the country. Interventions to protect the environment and ensure
a sustainable development pattem of the private sector ' must recognize the impacts and put in place measures
to prevent them. This would ensure that those aspects of development that contribute to sustainable
development are recognized and encouraged, while actions which go against sound management practices are
disco-uraged or modified.
IIIb(l): Phvsical Impact
22. The main impacts on the physical environment are both natural and human-ma4e. Under the APCBP
there can be a growing demand for arable land which may lead to escalating the pressing environmental
problems related to in creased land degradation due to expansion of cultivated h 7nd, declining soilfertility,
decrease of'arable lands, the collection offirewood, the production of charcoal, the maintenance of large
numbers of livestock, and inefficient water resources conservation.
5



23. All these activities already occurring could be exacerbated under this project, 4id could contribute
furthier to the reduction of vegetation cover, which in turn leads to increased run-off, soil erosion, fonnation of
gullies and "dongas". land degradation, and loss of bio-diversity. The activities also could compound the
devastating effects of periodic droughts and desertification on agricultural production.
IIIb(2): Socio-Economic Impact
24. The primary negative impact may be due to inadequate range management practices that lead to
resettlement problems, as a result of land-tenure policies, which in turn will produce land displacement for
communities and increase in landless farmers.
25. Other negative impacts may be due to:
* institutional weaknesses manifesting themselves in inadequate resource management, lack of trained staff
and technical expertise, lack of built-in evaluation, assessment and monitoring procedures, and analytical
capability for implementing comprehensive policies and programmes;
* lack of community participation in project planning, execution and management;
* lack of diffusion of appropriate technologies, especially of those technologies most appropriate for rural
settings. such as: terracing to control run-off, contour ditching, mulching and gully plugs to control erosion.
* lack of education, information and research due to limited awareness of environmental problems and
* understanding of the economic costs and consequences of resource degradation resulting in unintended
ervironmelital damage (an example is the use of maximum tillage instead of "optimum" tillage of
cultivated plots that weakens the soil particles and makes the land vulnerable to erosion when rainfall
occurs);
* economic forces. subsidies and policy distortions, such as: the failure of policy and market forces to reflect
the true costs of resource depletion, problems with pricing that under value common foods and services,
and non-enforcement of laws to protect the environment;
* discriminatory practices against women, especially with respect to accessibility to land and credit; and
inability to put in place a timely rural electrification and other energy resources to mitigate the unduly use
of fuelwood that leads to de-forestation on a large scale.
-llb(3): Political Impact
26. The primary political impact is the widespread and deep-rooted poverty associated with an inequitable
lalnd tenure system, which does not provide rural people with the necessary resources, or security to invest in
conservation practices.
27. It is easy enough to identify some of the more obvious and visually dramatic impacts of human activity
on the environment, but it is often difficult to establish what exactly should be done about them. How natural
resources and land use are used by people very much depends on who owns those resources and, therefore, the
nature of the land tenure system.
Other impacts may be due to:
* the weakness and poor coordination of inter-agency involvement in the management and implementation
of the policies that may affect the environment, i.e. the NES should be made to play more active role in the
APCBP;
* the weak and not clearly stated identification and assessment of risks involving regulatory and institutional
framework, the financial and market analysis, and business scenarios that will attract the participation of
the private sector;
* the problems of obtaining credit for farmers and the utilization of rural banking s stems to enhance credit
availability to farmers.
28. Also, the virtual collapse of indigenous controls over grazing both in the lowlands and the mountains has
long been associated with rapid degradation of vegetative cover, soil erosion and gully formation over much of
6



Lesotho. Some observers argue that diminution of the authority of chiefs over grazing controls is a more
important 'factor. There is a strong suggestion that the collapse of pivotal local institutions governing grazing
rotation and livestock movements have aggravated the emergence of open-access. haphazard range
management that has led to majoritv of herders who continue to strip the rangelands.
29. Full implementation of formal land regulations in Lesotho is constrained by the persistence of culturally
embedded land use practices which have remained more or less resilient in spite of rapidly changing economic
circumstances. The authoritv of traditional chiefs more crucial in the past, in respect of allocating of rights to
land. has. largely been eroded by exigencies of land pressure and the virtual disappearance of the arable land
frontier. An important factor hastening these adverse developments continues to be high rates of labour
migration to South Africa. transforming the structure of household labour availabilitv while making cattle a
preferred investment of surplus income from migrant wage remittances.
30. The series of policy and legislative responses by GOL have been tvpically minimalist. calculated to take
account of the donors criticism wvithout seriously undermining the tenets of customary laws. This requires that
the political impact should be addressed in a serious manner for the success of the capacity building policy
refomi.
IV. Mqitigation Measures
31. Thie mitigation plan which is in conformity with the World Bank's Operational Directives attempts to put
in place the required mechanisms to control the effects of the project on the natural environment. The GOL has
identified and recognizes most of the country's major problems. The mitigation measures required to be put in
place must be inter-related. What is now required is to define an implementation strategy and establish a
monitoring and surveillance mechanisms for the management of the anticipatcd problems at the district level
and below the district level. The recently concluded national workshop on the messages for the newly adopted
Unified Extension Approach (UEA) by MOA, is in the right direction.
32. There should be a proper rangeland management involving a central regulation, restriction of livestock
numbers over designated areas of pastures, allowing access to only members of livestock/grazing associations,
and introducing mandatory dipping and de-worming. Formation and empowerment of Range Management
Associations. and improvement of livestock quality and Provision of necessary infrastructure and inputs should
be provided under this project.
33. Thie customary provision discouraging long fallow encourages desultory land-use practices, inimical to
natural resource conservation. Therefore, a thorough-going land policy and legal reforms should be
undertaken. The present application of FORMC should be assessed for efficacy and promoted for
effectiveness.
34. Thle mitigation and solution of environmental problems requires co-ordinated programmes and activities
by the- different sectors of government and society. An enabling policy to allow both Government and public to
integrate environmental considerations in their development activities is therefore essential. The role of Non
Govermmental Organizations (NGOs) in awareness building, education and protection should be given
suffic:ient recognition.
35. As the occurrence of soil infertility and pollution of water resources are major environmental impact,
protection measures to minimize such risks through constant monitoring is an imperative. Also, the expansion
and intensification of agriculture made possible by irrigation has the potential for causing increased erosion,
pollution of surface and groundwater from agricultural biocides, and increased nutrient levels in the irrigation
and drainage water resulting in alga blooms. Hence, measures should be set up to control the quantities of
agricultural chemicals that are usually required in irrigated lands to keep production levels up, and to
compensate for high growth rate and loss of nutrients through leaching. Small-scale irrigation should be
preferred to large scale facilities-
7



V. Monitoring and Evaluation
36. Because of lack of clarity about extension objectives and messages (i.e. who is the target group and what
are we trying to achieve). it is not possible to measure the effectiveness of the service. especially with respect
to the impact on the natural resources and the assessment of the environment.
37. The monitoring system should be able to have at hand an effective management tool, information
services, and cost effectiveness in order to provide incentive system to the farmers to become effective
stakehDlders.
38. The issue of gender should be brought into the mainstream of research and extension programme, design
and inmLplementation. In defining the client special attention should be given to selecting women and ensuring
that they are. at a minimum, represented in proportion to the number of female-headed households.
39. Well intentioned legal and administrative reforms in land-tenure since the 1960s have not been
enthusiastically implemented in rural areas. However, it would be too simplistic and misleading to characterize
the failure of implementation as a result of lingering tensions between conservatism, represented by traditional
chiefs., and innovation, represented by the bureaucrats and ruling politicians. Traditional chiefs must be made
to retain their significant role as credible witnesses in dispute resolution and play an uneasy role in issuance of
customary titles and formalizing reallocations in the complex land tenure system.
40. The Commissioner of Lands, and the Department of Lands Survey and Physical Planning (DLSPP)
should be strengthened to participate fully in the APCBP, especially in pursuing the objectives of food security
and poverty alleviation that can be directly related to land-tenure issues.
41. The MOA's self-monitoring and self-evaluation is sufficient, however, the NE should play more active
role to support these activities at the district and the area levels. For instance, the NE: should work with the
MOA to prepare the standards and indicators, as well as, procedures for monitoring that will be consistent
across the country.
42. The primary concem should be the identification at the earliest stages of project implementation and on a
continuous basis, any pollution of the water resources, degradation of the land, soil infertility, and loss of
arable land.
VI. Recommendations
43. The project should benefit from the preparation of comprehensive rural and land use planning carried out
by the responsible government institutions or their consultants in collaboration with the project management.
This tpe of approach goes a long way in avoiding sites that are susceptible to degradation, erosion and
pollution.
44. Also. the approach can make it possible to characterize land areas into: i) areas that can be rehabilitated,
ii) areas that can be regenerated, i.e. areas that has been degraded badly and can be put into alternative uses,
and iii) areas that can be conserved. In this regard, a pollution potential mapf Lesotho can be prepared with
input from NES, DLSPP, and MOA. Such a map can be utilized, for example, in identification of areas
valuable for intensive fanning for high-value crops.
45. The contents of the extension messages on the effects and impact of land use and agricultural practices on
the environment.-particularly, on -soil i erosion, water conservation, and range management, as regards to land
degradation, poor crop production and livestock production, must be increased in quality, i.e. beefed up.
46. All projects. including those of the pilot activities under APCBP, should have enviromnental impact
assessment done whenever possible. The Department of Conservation, Forestry, and Land Use Planning of
MOA, especially the Soil, Water and Nature Conservation Division. should lay a leading role by coordinating
8



activities with NES and the target clients at the district level. It should be feasible to include environmentally
traine(l liaison person to w ork with stakeholders, non-governmental organizations (N60s). and clients on the
extension messages at the district I Is district levels.
47. The National Environmental Secretariat (NES) should be strengthened in its capacity building in order to
carry out regular monitoring and evaluation of activities under APCBP. while supporting the self-monitoring
and seIf-evaluiation efforts of MOA. As much as possible. the NES should avoid implementing projects in the
field under ASIP. because that will over-extend and weaken its monitoring capabilities considerably.
48. The land tenure issues and the practical ways these issues can impact positively on the ASIP program,
shoulcl be addressed with the cooperation of DLSPP and MOA. working closelv with the political leadership of
Lesotho. the Traditional Chiefs, and the target clients in the communities, in order to certify the core
constraints affecting land-use and the attendant negative impacts on the environment.
49. The GOL should be encouraged to continue with its efforts in developing the parameters for privatization.
such as. regulatory and institutional framework; the financial and market analysis; the business scenarios and
procurement procedures. so that risks and incentives can be measured for which actual private-sector
participation can be undertaken by the people themselves, preferably at the district levels. The process of
privatization of the delivery services for agricultural production should be gradual, and the GOL should resist
any apparent fast-track approaches that may be suggested by intemational lending institutions and donors.
50. Eclucation and research efforts should put emphasis on extension messages that response to educating the
youth, school pupils, students, and women on the implications of environmental impact due to land use and
agricultural practices. The messages should include the concepts of entrepreneurship in agricultural related
services by demonstrating the incentives, risks, and the abilitv to make a decent living in farning, as well as,
the attractiveness and the environmental friendliness of the agro-business and industry. This will sow the seed
for private sector participation for the future.
5 1. The extension messages should include workshops, demonstrations, and pilot activities that will enhance
and attract business people into agricultural services and farming. This, will make it possible to bring in
needed resources to the subsistence farmers, and help in the transition into small-scale and medium-scale
farmning for a reasonable number of indigenous people at the district levels.
52. Thie GOL should look into the possibility of integrating all services and resources into a comprehensive
villagel/comnunitpz infrastructure approach to support the current policies for sustainable agricultural delivery
services and food production.
53. Ernphasis should be given in the project to: the ability to understand and work with credit, how to obtain
credit.. the use of rural banking and cooperative ventures, and provision of agricultural related facilities (such
as storage. silos, slaughter houses, bins, blowers, etc.). How to maintain the harvest produce, and sustain the
lean, drought seasons will be critical to the success of the project, and should be addressed! forcefully.
54. Finally, extension messages should include an aggressive training of trainers (i.e. extension officers),
team leaders at the district and area levels, and technical expertise required to conduct effective extension
program under the unified extension approach (UEA). There is a strong need to build up capacity so that every
Project at the local and district levels will include information on environmental assessment. Emphasis should
be put oni the degree of the problem at hand. especially related to soil erosion and water conservation, to
mitigate the declining soil fertility and land degradation.
9



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
APCBP        Agricultural Policy and Capacitv Building Project
ASDIP        Agricultural Sector Development Program
ASIP         Agricultural Sector Investment Program
CD           The Soil, Water and Nature Conservation Division
DAO          District Agricultural Officer
DCFL         Department of Conservation, Forestry and Land Use Planning
DPLSS        Department of Lands Survey and Physical Planning
EA           Environmental Assessment/Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organisation
GOL          Government of Lesotho
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
LHDA         Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
LHWP         Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LNCNGO    Lesotho National Council of Non-Government Organisations
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture, Co-Operatives, Marketing and Youth Affairs
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NES          National Environmental Secretariat
NGO          Non-Governmental Organisation
0.1)         World Bank Operational Directives 4.01
ODA          British Overseas Development Agency
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
SOE          State Owned Enterprises
STD          Sexuallv Transmitted Diseases
UEA          Unified Extension Approach
10



I. INTRODUCTION
This report is an environmental assessment on the proposed Agricultural Policv and Capacity Building Project
(APCBP) for Lesotho. which is the beginning phase of an Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) with
the gcoals of developing government's capacity through institutional reform and decentralization, improving the
enabling policv environment for supporting the private sector development, and promoting a comprehensive
approach to the natural resource environment.
Essentially, the study' outlines the positive impacts of the project on the national economy and the population,
and identifies som6 of the potential negative impacts, thereby assuring the institutional and infrastructural
capacitv necessary for comprehensive and sustainable private sector development. The emphasis of the study is
on the environmental impact of the extension messages for the improvement of the proposed policy,
privatization. and mark-et liberalization of the agricultural support services.
Included in the report are sections on mitigation measures, monitoring and evaluation, and recommendations
that provide assurance for a long term sustainability of the project. The report has been prepared by Dr. Kobina
Atobrah. president and environmental specialist of Geometric Technology Corporation based in Fairfax,
Virginia. USA.
II. AIETHODOLOGY
The environmental assessment has been conducted in conformity with the operational directives, OD 4.01, of
the World Bank. Two weeks were spent in Lesotho in March, 1998 to collect the necessary data, consult with
the senior officials of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and meet with other authorities in both the public
and private sectors. including the Secretary-General of the National Environmental Secretariat (NES). Also,
the cinsultant participated in two very significant and relevant workshops, held in Maseru from March 17-19,
1998 on: i) tIte ivorkshtop on th2e extension approach for Lesotho, organized by MOA and held from March
17-19, 1998. and ii) th e nationalforum on natural resource management, combating desertification and
mitigating the effects of drouglt, organized by the NES. He conducted reconnaissance surveys at representative
sites in the districts. such as, on the mountains (Thaba Tseka), on the Foothills (Leribe), and at the Lowlands
(Mafeteng). In addition, the consultant met with officials of international donors of FAO, UNDP, and ODA, as
well as. members of non-governmental organizations, such as CARE and Lesotho National Council of NGOs
(LNCNGO). The consultant participated in the national ereeplanting program conducted at a site in Masite-
Maseru district on March 20. 1998, led by the King of Lesotho Letsie III.
III. E4NVIRONMENTAL SETTING
The K ingdom of Lesotho occupies a land area of 30,355 square kilometres, wholly surrounded by the Republic
of South Africa, and lying between latitudes 28 degrees and 31 degrees south and longitudes 27 degrees and 30
degrees east. General elevations exceed 1,000 metres with highland peaks rising to 3,299 metres above sea
level. The terrain is generallv rugged with steep slopes and fragile soil formations (see Plate 1).
The country is ethnicallv homogeneous, with the Lesotho Language spoken by virtually all the indigenous
population. English and Lesotho are the official languages. The population is about two million (1994), and is
projected to be about 2.114,000 by the year 2000 with an annual growth rate of 2.6%. The country is divided
into ten administrative districts. namely: Maseru, Mafeteng, Mohale's Hoek, Quthing, Qacha's Nek, Thaba
Tseka, Moklhotlong. Butha Buthe. Leribe and Berea (see Lesotho Map attached).
Four distinct agro-ecological or geographical zones, demarcated by ascending altitude, extend approximately
north-south across Lesotho, and the landformn, soil, climatic and vegetational characteristics of those zones
largely determine their land-use. The zones are: Highlands ( or Mountains), Foothills, Lowlands and the Sengu
River Valley. Lesotho has a cool sub-tropical climate with conditions largely determined by altitude and
subject to wide seasonal and geographical variations. Mean annual precipitation varies from 600mm. in the
southern and western lowlands to more than 1600mm. in the north-eastern highlands, where frost, heavy
11



snowfa[ll and hail stonns are common during winter months. Sengu River Valley, in the rain shadow of the
Maluti mountains. is significantly drier with an annual total of 500-600mm. There is considerable annual
variation in rainfall totals. and the country remains vulnerable to recurrent periods of droughts. Much of the
rain fails in intense localized thunderstorms, and hailstorms are common.
111(a) initial Conditions
The environmental conditions of Lesotho render it particularly prone to land degradation and soil erosion by
water. Land is often steeply sloping and intense rainstorms, together with hail and frost promote the
detachment of soil particles. Geological erosion, as a result of exfoliation which is a natural process, is greatly
accelerated by inappropriate land use. Sheet wash and rill erosion is common on the mountains, particularly on
overgrazed range and cultivated land. The lowland area is quite prone to erosion which is exacerbated by long
term inappropriate land-use. Gullies or "dongas" are a prominent feature of the landscape.
The na.tural vegetation is dominated by grassland, and by indigenous shrubs in some mountain areas. The
present vegetation is regarded as a sub-climax resulting from human interference and modification. Much of
the country- has become denuded of its natural grass cover through uncontrolled grazing and rushing surface
water. Related problems are severe soil erosion, soil exhaustion and declining fertility, and desertification. The
environment is very fragile and given the interplay of the forces of wind and water on its barren surface, soil
degradation and soil fertility reduction, and polluted water resources are major environmental problems. Pure
drinking water is available to 43% of the population in both the urban and rural areas.
Agriculture, which is the main economic activity for more than 80% of the population, continues to suffer from
long term decline in production. For instance, domestic food production fell short of national requirements by
45% in 1990. Farnland is scarce, and landlessness has become common. Of the total land area, only 9% is
suitable for arable agriculture and 66% for grazing. The area of cultivation has declined by a third in the past
three decades to 300,000 hectares in the 1990s. The total productivity factor has been declining at a rate of
1.5% a year. Crop yields have been declining at one percent a year, and cultivated lands at one percent per
year. Mvany factors, both natural and human-made, have contributed to this reduction, including: drought, soil
erosioni, the system of land tenure, unsustainable land management practices and excessive livestock numbers,
In order to address the environmental issues of the country and help arrest the degradation of this fragile
natura]L resource base. the GOL in collaboration with its donor partners, prepared the country's first national
environmental strategic framework, the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), definig the strategies,
the necessary legislative framework and regulating mechanism required to protect, control, enforce, and
monitor the use of the country's poor natural resources.
IV. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of this study are to assess environmental impacts and propose mitigation measures with respect
to capacity building needed for decentralisation of the extension services at the district levels, by focusing on.
the practices of soil and water conservation, range management, farm business and marketing, and technology
transfer on the agricultural production in Lesotho.
Further, the obJectives of the study include the review of extension and research needs of the district farmers
and identification of the agro-ecological constraints that may have impact on irrigation, commercial livestock,
range management. food crops and annual rainfed cash crops on a district by district level. Also, the study
is to review the potential for village/community participation techniques in support of developing
environmentally sustainable agricultural production for the country.
12



V. SC'OPE OF WORK
The scope of work involved identifyTing and reviewing the available literature consisting of the working papers
on ASIP prepared by MOA. information through the Environment Division of Lesotho Highlands
Development Authoritv (LHDA). and information through the National Environmental Secretariat (NES),
such as the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and the National Action Plan to implement Agenda 2
1. The ;scope included reviewv and assessment of the extension messages on the way in which better services
are to be delivered: improvement of the environmental content of agricultural services and mitigating any
negative impacts of service delivery: and review of relevant national environmental legislation and assess the
capacity building needs.
VI. PROJECT RATIONALE
The GOL, with assistance from the World Bank, has embarked on the enhancement and improvement of the
institutional arrangements and operational capacities of the agricultural support services comprising: extension,
research. seed and planting materials, and animal health. Strategic and non-farm land use planning services
would be improved, as well as support services. such as, livestock products marketing and issues related to the
regulators and legislative agenda that will increase private sector participation in the food and agriculture
produclion for Lesotho.
While extension is being decentralized to the districts, extension staff of MOA are still managed and directed
from the capital Maseru bv different departments. namely: the parent department of Field Services, and by
technical departments of Crops, Livestock, and Conservation, Forestry, and Land Use Planning. The
operational linkages between research and extension have to be strengthened and inter-departmental
coordination in extension services delivery has to be streamlined in order to promote balanced and useful
extension messages to the farmer. Farmer extension training is urgently needed, and as part of the proposed
Agricultural Policv and Capacity Building Project (APBCP), the GOL has recommended the modification of
the current extension system into a national unified agricultural extension and training system, known as the
unified extension approach (UE4), with increased decentralization at the district level.
The GC)L has adopted an outwvard looking strategy needed for the institutional and human resources capacity
for comprehensive and sustainable economic development. This consensus has led to important policy reforms
determined to promote private sector investment in diverse sectors of the economy. Cognizant of the fragility
of its natLral resource base and the scarcitv of arable land, in particular, soil erosion and water conservation
problems. the government has provided a strong base for environmental action. Interventions to protect the
environment and ensurc a sustainable private sector development in pattern has been clearly demonstrated in
the government's effort to define a strategy, plan of action and legislative framework for environmental
management. This would ensure that the APCBP and future programs will contribute to sustainable,
environmentallv friendly development.
VII. STATUTORY FRAMEWORK
In an effort to address poverty reduction and sustain macroeconomic perfonnance through greater integration
into the sub-regional economy, the GOL has adopted an outward oriented strategy involving a program of
economic, policy and institutional reform. The reform involves the liberalization of trade and commercial
activity and the privatization of state owned enterprises (SOEs) and assets. As part of the reform, the
government is also facilitating a long-term agricultural development framework, the Agricultural Sector
Development Program (ASDP)v which ultimately has led to a full-fledged Agricultural Sector Investment
Program (ASIP).
The APCBP fits verv well into the overall strategy as the first phase of the long-term ASDP and ASIP
framework, with the goals of developing government's capacity through institutional reform and
decentralization, improving the enabling policy environment for supporting the private sector development, as
well as, promoting a comprehensive approach to the natural resource environment.
13



In the light of the developmental framework, the impact on the environment becomes crucial. Therefore, in
order lo address the environmental issues of the country and help arrest the degradation of the fragile natural
resource base. the GOL in collaboration with its donor partners. prepared the country's first national
environmental strategic framework, the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), defining the strategies,
the necessary legislative framework and regulating mechanism required to protect, control, enforce, and
monitor the use of the country's natural resources.
The initiatives and refonn approaches by the government fit into the framework of the country's natural
resources management and the private sector development policies embodied in the following undertakings:
* the National Environment Policy of Lesotho;
* the Environment Bill (1997) currently passing through Parliament;
* the National Action Plan to Implement Agenda 21 for Lesotho;
* Lesotho Land Policy and Administration;
*  the Natural Environment and Heritage Compensation, Rural Development and Public Health;
*  the Working Papers on ASIP;
* the Work-shop on the Extension Approach for Lesotho, organized by MOA;
*  the National Forum on Natural Resource Management, Combating Desertification and Mitigating the
Effects of Drought, organized by the NES; and
*  the National Tree Planting Program (1998) at Masite-Maseru District led by the King of Lesotho,
Letsie III.
The main thrust of the policy reform in general, and the various govemment undertakings to date, is to focus
on the broad endorsement and adoption of the core principles of an outward looking economy in which
government plays the role of a facilitator, instead of a service provider and controller, so that the private sector
could emerge and generate sustainable economic growth.
To attain the ob jective of these undertakings, the major test will be the responsiveness of the private sector to
the enabling policy environment. For the public sector, the test will require increased implementation of
capacity building and policy sequencing according to priorities; institutional and human resources
development; improved planning; adequate donor coordination; judicious development of infrastructure and
putting into place implemenitable environmental policies and actions.
The prioritv areas needed for policy reforms in the APCBP are: extension and research; animal health;
availability of seed and planting materials;. and land use planning, based on a decentralized delivery process by
underpinning the largely capacity building operations with some selected pilot production type activities with a
systern of monitoring and environmental impact assessment, and financing of projects that are in line with the
ASIP objectives and strategies.
VII(a). National Environmental Action Plans
The environmental action plans for the country, including Agenda 2 1, have clearly identified the principal
challenges facing Lesotho as: accelerated soil erosion resulting in land degradation, loss of arable land and
eventual desertification: periodic prolonged drought and scarcity of water for agriculture, human and livestock
consumption: increasing urban and rural poverty; pollution of land and water; low environmental awareness
among policy and decision makers and the general public; weak institutional capacity to deal with
environmental problems; lack of public participation in project identification, design and implementation; legal
impediments in the way of women's social and economic progress; and absence of enforceable environmental
policy and an enabling legal mechanism to advance sustainable development programmes. Though the GOL
recognizes the problems and attempts to address them, a great deal remains to be done.
In order to bring about meaningful and sustainable development, sound environmental policies and strategies
are an imperative for a country with a very fragile natural resource base. For a sound implementation of the
policies, the rapid population growth (of about 2.6%) should be balanced with the resources and capacity for
14



environmental assessment backed bv institutional and human resources capacity to avoid the fragmentation of
decisions. Environmental management also requires a decentralized and participatory approach. Therefore. the
government administration at the district levels, and the different components of the societv in Lesotho should
play key roles in resource conservation. Raising the awareness of the population on environmental matters and
increasing their le-el of participation and that of other stakeholders, NGOs, and women in natural resources
management should be a prioritv target for the government.
In addition to promoting dialogue with the population and mobilizing the participation of donor partners to
ensure the financial resources needed to face the countrv's enviromnental challenges, the action plans aim at
tackling environmental problems both directly through projects dealing with specific issues and indirectly
through sectoral projects that although primarily pursuing their own objectives address some of Lesotho's
major environmental issues, such as poverty reduction, food security, private sector participation pf delivery
systems. water resources management, soil erosion and soil fertility. energy, population and ecosystem
manag-ement. Witlh the NES at the office of the Primne Minister, better coordination of environmental activities
is anticipated.
VIII. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building Project (APCBP) focuses mainly on capacity building for
decentralized delivery of core agricultural services for Lesotho. The policy reforms include support for the
process of land tenure review, marketing and trade reforms, privatization and divestiture. The project will
enhance the operational capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Marketing and Youth Affairs
(MOA) by strengthening policy and strategy analysis and formulation, regulatory quality control and quality
assurance capacity, and coordination and monitoring, while making more cost-effective use of available public
resources in support of smallholder agriculture through service delivery at the district (decentralized) level.
Also, the project will assist in redefining MOA's core public role with the view to facilitating increased private
sector participation in the provision of certain agricultural support services and for MOA to become more
priori v/target oriented and client responsive.
As a first step in improving the enabling environment for agricultural development, the project would
strengthen the policy environment, and refocus the public sector's agricultural services in priority areas such as
extension and research, animal health. availability of seed and planting materials and land use planning based
on a decentralized deliverv process. Some selected pilot field activities will be included to test some of the
(business) management operations dealing with critical agricultural development aspects such as small scale
irrigation, fodder development, soil conservation and community forestry. It is the challenge under APCBP as
to how to manage the transition to a more intensive, diversified and sustainable fanning system that can
provide more jobs and higher incomes for all farmers, including the landless farmers and the poor.
IX. PROBABLE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT
The APCBP would generally lead to some changes in the ecological setting of areas to be developed. To a
great extent the project will have impacts on the physical environment, as well as, on the socio-economic and
political relationships of Lesotho. From the assessment in general, the project's impact on the natural
environment and on the social and economic fabric is globally positive. The GOL has identified some of the
more obvious and visually dramatic impacts of human activity on the environment, but it is often difficult to
establish what exactlv should be done about them. If the necessary mitigation measures are put in place, and an
implementation strategy for monitoring and evaluation are established for the management of anticipated
problems. then the APCBP would impact positively on food security, poverty alleviation, and increased private
sector participation in the agricultural production for Lesotho.
IX(a)j. The Possible Positive Impact
The APCBP would generally provide food security, poverty alleviation, and increased private sector
15



participation in the delivery of agricultural production services. The project would contribute to the
improvenment in the policy environment and put in place a more sustainable and client responsive agricultural
support services at the local level (i.e. below the district level). This will enable the smallholder fanners be in a
better position to respond to market incentives, and improve the management of their farm business and
incomes.
Also, the project will contribute to the creation of productive employment for the relatively young population
and may eventuallv reduce the emigration to South Africa of the country's disciplined labour force. With the
improvement of the qualitv of life through employment creation, the production capacity of the private sector
will be reinforced, thereby having significant positive impact on the national economy, as well as, the natural
environment.
The strategy by which these policy goals are to be achieved entails the commercialization of agriculture into an
efficient and competitive sector, responsive to market signals, and utilizing resources in an efficient and
sustainable manner. The APCBP will encourage the role of GOL to support local people in beneficially
managing their own natural resources. The positive impact for food security include fuel security. In addition.
the project will conserve productive land, rehabilitate degraded land and conserve water resources. It may lead
to the use of land appropriately and to plan its use. The project has the capability to increase the contribution of
trees to livelihood securitv and environmental protection. Also, the project has the potential to promote and
support conservation management practices on productive cropland and rangeland. In general, the positive
impacts of the APCBP will include:
* reversal of the long term decline in production and productivity by increasing domestic food
production which fell short of national requirements by 45% in 1990;
*  prevent the continual decline in arable land and scarcity of farmland, and stop the increase in
landlessness;
*  utilize and hamess more efficiently the country's greatest natural asset of water resources, which
are being developed through the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), by transferring water
to South Africa and also generate electricity for Lesotho.
An improved economy will afford GOL the possibility of improving the village infrastructure,
communications, and social services for the rural and larger population. From the environmental health
perspective, the project will afford the general population food security, improved dietary intake and reduced
malnutrition, especiallv infant malnutrition. Although AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
are not wide spread in Lesotho. making young people financially independent will hopefully minimize the
temptations for prostitution and emigration outside the country.
XI(b). The Possible Negative Impact
Potential negative impacts due to the project may occur on the physical enviromment, as well as on the socio
economic and political relationships of Lesotho. Interventions to protect the environment and ensure a
sustainable development pattern of the private sector must recognize the impacts and put in place measures to
prevent them. This would ensure that those aspects of development that contribute to sustainable development
are recognized and encouraged, while actions which go against sound management practices are discouraged
or modified.
The physical and socio-economic environment of the country poses both a constraint and a challenge to
conservation related programmes. While there is no shortage of problems to address, the success of previous
projects and programmes in dealing with these problems has been limited, and erosion remains a major feature
of the country.
lXb(1). The Physical Impact
The main impacts on the physical environment are both natural and human-made. Under the APCBP there can
16



be a growing demand for arable land which may lead to escalating the pressing environmental problems
related to increased land degradation due to expansion of cultivated land, declining soil fertility, decrease of
arable lands, the collection of firewood. the production of charcoal, the maintenance of large numbers of
livestock, and inefficient water resources conservation.
Increased agricultural activities under the project, coupled with high rainfall intensity on the steep slopes may
render the soils more prone to erosion, and hence have a negative impact on water development through
siltation of reservoirs. and on siltation of irrigation canals and dams. The particular conditions which favour
the development of gully (donga) erosion, the juxtaposition of steep denuded escarpments and long footslopes
with duplex soils (i.e. soils with sandy or loamy surface layers abruptly overlying impermeable clay), are
prevalent in the lowlands wvhere population density is high and good cropland is a scarce and declining
resource.
The v arious hazards on the physical environment could be exarcebated under the APCBP, and could contribute
further to the reduction of vegetative cover, which in turn leads to increased run-off, soil erosion, formation of
gullies and "dongas", land degradation, and loss of bio-diversity. The activities under the project also could
compound the devastating effects of periodic droughts and desertification on agricultural production.
IXb(2). The Socio-Economic Impact
The primary negative impact may be due to inadequate range-management practices that lead ultimately to soil
erosion, land degradation, and resettlement problems. This impact may be due to the constraints in the land
tenure policies, which in turn will produce land displacement for communities and increase in landless farmers.
Fanmers who are willing to undertake conservation measures often face constraints due to shortage of labour or
access to inputs. Female headed households, for instance, who are generally poorcr and havc less labour, suffcr
disproportionately from these constraints. Poor people are usually more concerned with immediate benefits
than with medium or long term planning, and conventional economic analysis usually demonstrates poor
returns from investment in soil conservation.
Otheir negative impacts may be due to:
  institutional weaknesses manifesting themselves in inadequate resource management, lack of trained staff
and technical expertise, lack of built-in evaluation, assessment and monitoring procedures, and analytical
capability for implementing comprehensive policies and programmes;
  lack of community participation in project planning, execution and management;
*  Ilck of diffusion of appropriate technologies, especially of those technologies most appropriate for rural
settings. such as: terracing to control run-off, contour ditching, mulching and gully plugs to control
crosion:
*   lack of education. information and research due to limited awareness of environmental problems and
understanding of the economic costs and consequences of resource degradation resulting in unintended
environmental damage ( an example is the use of maximum tillage instead of "optimum" tillage of
cultivated plots that weakens the soil particles and makes the land vulnerable to erosion when rainfall
occurs):
*  economic forces, subsidies and policy distortions, such as: the failure of policy and market forces to reflect
the true costs of resource depletion, problems with pricing that under value common foods and services,
and non-enforcement of laws to protect the environment;
*  discriminatory practices against women, especially with respect to accessibility to land and credit; and
*  inability to put in place a timely rural electrification and other energy resources to mitigate the unduly use
of fuelwood that leads to de-forestation on a large scale.
The lack of knowledge on land rights, which is sometimes exploited by Chiefs, and frequent delays in
obtaining 'Form C' title to land, are powerful disincentives to any investment in physical soil conservation, tree
planting or the construction of water retention structures. At the district level, logistic problems, such as
transport, sometimes impede delivery of services to farmers,
17



Furthermore. many district staff lack training in essential techniques and have a limited range of extension
messages to offer. There is a shortage of well qualified scientists and extension officers, which may become
acute for the APCBP. Partly as a result of this, there are weak research programmes which are specifically
addressing the serious problems of soil erosion and water conservation in Lesotho. nor is there any evidence of
the testing and adoption of techniques based on research experience from the indigenous farmers themselves.
IXb(3). The Political Impact
The primary political impact is the widespread and deep-rooted poverty associated with an inequitable land
tenure svstemn. which does not provide rural people with the necessary resources, or security to invest in
conservation practices. It is easy enough to identify some of the more obvious and visually dramatic impacts of
human activity on the environment, but it is often difficult to establish what exactly should be done about
them. How natural resources and land use are used by people very much depends on who owns those
resources and. therefore. the nature of the land.
Other impacts may be due to:
* the weakness and poor coordination of inter-agency involvement in the management and implementation of
the policies that may affect the environment, i.e. the NES should be made to play more active role in the
APCBP;
  the weak and not clearly stated identification and assessment of risks involving regulatory and institutional framework, t
attract the participation of the private sector;
- the problems of obtaining credit for farmers and the utilization of rural banking systems to enhance credit
availability to farmers.
Also, the virtual collapse of indigenous controls over grazing both in the lowlands and the mountains has long
been associated with rapid degradation of vegetative cover, soil erosion and gully formation over much of
Lesotho. Some observers argue that diminution of the authority of chiefs over grazing controls is a more
important factor. There is a strong suggestion that the collapse of pivotal local institutions governing grazing
rotation and livestock movements have aggravated the emergence of open-access, haphazard range
management that has led to majority of herders who continue to strip the rangelands.
Full implementation of formal land regulations in Lesotho is constrained by the persistence of culturally
embedded land use practices which have remained more or less resilient in spite of rapidly changing economic
circurnstances. The authority of traditional chiefs more crucial in the past, in respect of allocating of rights to
land., has largely been eroded by exigencies of land pressure and the virtual disappearance of the arable land
frontier. An important factor hastening these adverse developments continues to be high rates of labour
migration to South Africa, transforming the structure of household labour availability while making cattle a
preferred investment of surplus income from migrant wage remittances.
The series of policy and legislative responses by GOL have been typically minimalist, calculated to take
account of the donors criticism without seriously undermining the tenets of customary laws. This requires that
the political impact should be addressed in a serious manner for the success of the capacity building policy
reformia.
The relatively poor perfornance of the agricultural sector has been blamed, inter alia, on the system of land
tenure. Particularly targeted is the communal ownership of range land which has led to overgrazing and land
degradation due to ever increasing pressures from both human and livestock populations. These pressures are
also present on arable land which has reduced the productivity potential of agricultural land through
fragmentation and degradation. The principal causes include the tradition of inspection whereby under the laws
of Le.rotholi, large holdings of arable land have been sub-divided for reallocation to other households; the
uncontrolled development of settlements; and conflicts and inconsistencies in the legislation.
18



X. MITIGATION MEASURES
The mitigation plan which is in confornity with the World Bank's Operational Directives attempts to put in
place the required mechanisms to control the effects of the project on the natural environment. The GOL has
identified and recognizes most of the country's major problems. The mitigation measures required to be put in
place must be inter-related. What is now required is to define an implementation strategy and establish a
monitoring and surveillance mechanisms for the management of the anticipated problems at the district level
and below the district level. The recentlv concluded national workshop on the messages for the newly adopted
Unified Extension Approach (UEA) by MOA, is in the right direction.
Erosion of soils is a product of the detachment of particles through raindrop impact, and the transport of soil
downslope in rn-off. Soil conservation interventions should be designed to take these causative factors into
account. Vegetative measures to intercept rainfall and a mixture of vegetative and mechanical measures for the
safe disposal of run-off. are usually the most effective combination. Given positive results from the agro-
forestry trials being conducted by the Crops Department, this experience could form an important part of
conservation programmes. Erosion control is much more effective if carried out on a catchment basis rather
than as a series of uncoordinated works. Both the watershed management programme and the socialforestry
and conserv'ation programnmie currently being pursued by MOA adopt the holistic approach to planning
conservation in an entire catchment.
While trees have an important role to play. they should be planted in such a way as to promote grass or shrub
growth. A plantation with a dense grass undergrowth usually offers excellent protection against soil erosion.
The key to integrated conservation planning is good land use in which cultivation is limited to suitable sites
and stock numbers are controlled on communal grazing land.
There should be a proper rangeland management involving a central regulation, restriction of livestock
numbers over designated areas of pastures, allowing access to only members of livestock/grazing associations,
and introducing mandatory dipping and de-worming. Formation and empowerment of Range Management
Associations, and improvement of livestock quality and provision of necessary infrastructure and inputs should
be provided under this project.
The customary provision discouraging long fallow encourages desultory land-use practices, inimical to natural
resource conservation. Therefore, a thorough-going land policy and legal reforms should be undertaken. The
present application of FORM C should be assessed for efficacy and promoted for effectiveness.
The mitigation and solution of environmental problems requires co-ordinated programmes and activities by the
different sectors of government and society. Ari enabling policy to allow both Government and public to
integrate environmental considerations in their development activities is therefore essential. The role of Non
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in awareness building, education and protection should be given
sufficient recognition.
As the occurrence of soil infertility and pollution of water resources are major environmental impact,
protection measures to minimize such risks through constant monitoring is an imperative. Also, the expansion
and intensification of agriculture made possible by irrigation has the potential for causing increased erosion,
pollution of surface and groundwater from agricultural biocides, and increased nutrient levels in the inrigation
and drainage water resulting in alga blooms. Hence, measures should be set up to control the quantities of
agricultural chemicals that are usually required in irrigated lands to keep production levels up, and to
compensate for high growth rate and loss of nutrients through leaching. Small-scale irrigation should be
preferTed to large scale facilities.
XI. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Because of lack of clarity about extension objectives and messages (i.e. who is the target group and what are
we trying to achieve). it is not possible to measure the effectiveness of the service, especially with respect to
19



the impact on the natuLral resources and the assessment of the environment. The monitoring system should be
able to have at hand an effective management tool, information services. and cost effectiveness in order to
provide incentive system to the fanners to become effective stakeholders.
Previous experience has amply demonstrated that for soil and water conservation programmes to be successful
they must vield immediate as well as long term benefits to the farmers, and that they must be conducted in
response to perceived fanner needs, and that the rights of use and access to resources, such as land and planted
trees. should be clear. Given the acceptance of these principles, which are directly in line with GOL policy,
there are a large number of opportunities for conservation programmes targeted at different groups, with
different specific needs. in different parts of the country.
The issue of gender should be brought into the mainstream of research and extension programme, design and
implementation. In defining the client special attention should be given to selecting women and ensuring that
they are, at a millimum. represented in proportion to the number of female-headed households. Well
intentioned legal and administrative reforms in land-tenure since the 1960s have not been enthusiastically
implemented in rural areas. However, it would be too simplistic and misleading to characterize the failure of
implementation as a result of lingering tensions between conservatism, represented by traditional chiefs, and
innovation, represented bv the bureaucrats and ruling politicians. Traditional chiefs must be made to retain
their significant role as credible witnesses in dispute resolution and play an uneasy role in issuance of
customarv titles and formalizing reallocations in the complex land tenure system.
The Commissioner of Lands, and the Department of Lands Survey and Physical Planning (DLSPP) should be
strengthened to participate fully in the APCBP, especially in pursuing the objectives of food security and
poverty alleviation that can be directly related to land-tenure issues. The MOA's self-monitoring and self
evaluation is sufficient. however. the NES should play more active role to support these activities at the district
and the area levels. For instance, the NES should work with the MOA to prepare the standards and indicators,
as well as. procedures or monitoring that will be consistent across the country.
The primary concem should be the identification at the earliest stages of project implementation and on a
continuous basis, anv pollution of the water resources, degradation of the land, soil infertility, and loss of
arable land.
XII. RECOMMENDATION
The project should benefit from the preparation of comprehensive rural and land use planning carried out by
the responsible govermment institutions or their consultants in collaboration with the project management. This
type of approach goes a long way in avoiding sites that are susceptible to degradation, erosion and pollution.
Also, the approach can make it possible to characterize land areas into: i) areas that can be rehabilitated, ii)
areas that can be regenerated, i.e. areas that has been degraded badly and can be put into altemative uses, and
iii) areas that can be conserved. In this regard, a pollution potential map of Lesotho can be prepared with
input from NES. DLSPP, and MOA. Such a map can be utilized, for example, in identification of areas
valuable for intensive fanning for high-value crops.
The contents of the extension messages on the effects and impact of land use and agricultural practices on the
environment, particularly. on soil erosion, water conservation, and range management, as regards to land
degradation, poor crop production and livestock production, must be increased in quality, i.e. beefed up.
Land degradation is a continuing problem in Lesotho. Although previous projects have had some successes,
the particular combination of topographic, climatic and soil conditions as well as land management practices
mean that continued investment is needed to minimize further decline in usable land and to rehabilitate
degraded areas. All projects, including those of the pilot activities under APCBP. should have environmental
impact assessment done whenever possible. The Department of Conservation, Forestry, and Land Use
Planning of MOA. especiallv the Soil, Water and Nature Conservation Division, should play a leading role by
coordinating activities with NES and the target clients at the district level. It should be feasible to include
20



environmentally trained liaison person to work with stakeholders. non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
and clients on the extension messages at the district levels and below the district levels.
The National Environmental Secretariat (NES) should be strengthened in its capacity building in order to carrv
out regular monitoring and evaluation of activities under APCBP, while supporting the self-monitoring and
self-evaluation efforts of MOA. As much as possible. the NES should avoid implementing projects in the field
under ASIP. because that will over-extend and weaken its monitoring capabilities considerably. The NES,
under the Office of the Prime Minister, should play a coordinating role with respect to all environmentally
related activities in Lesotho. The MOA should collaborate very closely with NES by establishing liaison
officers among the divisions and the District Agricultural Officers (DAOs) for the outreach of the extension
messages to the district level and below the district level.
The land tenure issues and the practical ways these issues can impact positively on the ASIP program, should
be addressed with the cooperation of DLSPP and MOA, working closely with the political leadership of
Lesot.Lo. the Traditional Chiefs, and the target clients in the communities, in order to rectify the core constraint
affecting land-use and the attendant negative impacts on the environment. The issues can include the use of
Selected Agricultural Areas as a means of re-organising land holdings, signal that a land market exists albeit
infornmal at present, deregulate the produce markets, and enhance sharecropping and sub-leasing.
The GOL should be encouraged to continue with its efforts in developing the parameters for privatization, such
as. regulatory and institutional framework;: the financial and market analysis; the business scenarios and
procurement procedures. so that risks and incentives can be measured for which actual private-sector
participation can be undertaken by the people themselves, preferably at the district levels. The process of
privatization of the delivery services for agricultural production should be gradual, and the GOL should resist
any apparent fast-track approaches that may be suggested by international lending institutions and donors.
XIII.   Terms of Reference for the Preparation of the Environmental Protection
Component
In order to implement the recommended mitigation measures, MOA should work closely with the National
Environmental Secretariat (NES) to establish relevant and effective guidance to prevent damage and reduce
negative effects. Therefore, the Project should hire technical assistance with a good knowledge in
environmental assessment, management and policies on a short term basis for a period not exceeding six
months. to help in establishing details of enviromnental protection guidelines and indicators for a sound
environmental monitoring activities. He can also reinforce the capacity building of MOA, and provide on the
job training to the extension officers at the district level.
A. The Technical Assistant will assist in:
*  the definition of agricultural production siting criteria (pre-planned activities);
*  the establishment of environmental watch committees (EWQ at the district level;
*  the preparation of pollution potential maps for Lesotho with the purpose of identifying detailed
ecological sensitive areas to be protected, and suitable areas for intensive farming (see
recommendation);
*  the establishment of environmental protection resources to finance some of the EWC's activities,
such as tree planting, erosion controls; water resources conservation; and public awareness and
education:
*  the design of appropriate environmental extension messages for the implementation in the Unified
Extension Approach (UEA) at the district levels.
B. The technical assistance should summarize for the public education and awareness with the collaboration
of local civil engineers, architects, agricultural scientists and ecologists a matrix of mitigation measures
showing changes between possible impacts indicated in the report. The physical, ecological,
sociological/cultural and economic changes need to be emphasized at the onset of the project, as well as,
during the implementation and post implementation.
21



C. The technical assistance will work and liaise with the divisions of MOA and other GOL institLtions to:
* improve land management to arrest land degradation and soil erosion:
* promote coinmercialisation of agriculture by facilitating investments in intensive production.
* increase emplovment and incomes for the fanning community:
* improve household food security;
* improve range resources and fertility of croplands;
* enhance security of land tenure: and
*  adopt conservation measures and land use plans that will encourage the economic utilisation of
scarce land resources.
D. BLUDGET
Professional Fees for TA:
1 person-month (2i, US$ 15,000 for 6 months              US$ 90,000
International Travel:
I '8 US$ 6,5(00 @a 3                                      US$ 19,500
Hotel and Per Diem. etc:
70 days 4) US$ 180/day                                    US$ 12,600
Domestic travel and miscellaneous:
Lump sum, including report preparation, etc               US$  5,000
Overall Total:                                     US$ 127,100
XIV. LIST OF PUBLICATIONS
I . Lesotho Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building - Pre-Appraisal Aide Memoire (1997); A World
Bank/GOL Document.
2. Developing Sustainable Agricultural Extension Systems in Africa Through Partnership and Farmers
Empowermelnt (1996) --- Proceedings of the 2 ni Infonnal Consultation on Intemational Support to
Agricultural Extension Systems in Africa, IFAD, Rome, Italy.
3. Farmer Support Services Workshop Group - Extension (1997); FSSWG
4. A Note on Intemational Experience on Extension by Willem Zijp (1997) - Unpublished.
5. Natural Environment and Heritage, Compensation, Rural Development and Public Health (1995), Report
to the Einvironment Division. Lesotho Highlands Development Authority, Prepared by Panel of
Environmental Experts.
6. Work-ing Papers on Lesotho Agricultural Sector Investment Programme (1997) - Covering:
Agrarian Reform and Administration -3a
Land Use Planning -3b
Soil. Water and Nature Conservation -3c
Forestry -3d
C-op Production - 4a
Intensive and Extensive Livestock Production, - 4b
Range Management - 4c
7. Enivironmental Assessment Sourcebook, Vol 11 (1991); World Bank Technical Paper, No. 140
8. Information on the Intemet on Lesotho
9. Lesotho Land Policy and Administration (1997), by S.E. Migot-Adholla, Consultant
10. Proceedings of the Workshop on Extension Through Participation (1996), Sponsored by Production
22



Thlrough Conser-ation Programme and American Peace Corps Volunteers
11. M/Lap of Lesotho. prepared for the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (1995). 2' Edition, By LHDA and
Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authonity (TCTA). Scale- 1:300.000
12. Lesotho Soils Map. West Sheet and East Sheet. Scale- 1:250,000
13. NMap. of Lesotho. Scale- 1:500.000
14. Satellite Image Map of Lesotho. Lesotho Government. Scale- 1:250,000
XV. List of Persons Contacted
Jones Ackor                       Manager. Deloitte & Touche ILA Africa
Dr. Frank Baffbe                  Economic Consultant, Maseru, Lesotho
Jonathan Bevnon                   Economist, British Development Division in Southern Africa
Sakwa J. Bunvasi                  Task Manager, World Bank, AFT I
Dr. Q.K.Chakela                   Professor, National University of Lesotho
George Day                        Advisor, ASIP, Maseru, Lesotho
Dr. Ahmed El-Feel                 Prof and Consultant, Agric. Economics, Univ. of Alexandria, Egypt
Serigne Omar FIve                 Environmental Specialist, World Bank, AFTEI
Lefa Stephen Lehloba              Deputy Principal Secretary, MOA
Lebese Lekholoane                 Manager, Enviromnental & Social Services Group, LHDA
C.T. Mafisa                       Director, Livestock Services, MOA
Nchemio Maile                     Director of Forestry Division, MCA
Moeketsi J. Masilo                Principal Secretary, MOA
M. Mohlomi                        Agronomy, Crops Dept., MOA
Ntlisi Mokitimi                   Assistant Economic Planner, MOA
Seipati Molopa                    Assistant Economic Planner, MOA
Ms. Nkureng Mota                  Director, Soil and Water Conservation Division, MOA
Stan Motake                       Acting Director and Irrigation Engineer. Crops Dept., MOA
M. Motoboli                       Agricultural Mechanization, Crops Dept., MCA
Bore Motsamai                     Secretary-General, National Environmental Secretariat, Lesotho
Mohan Nepal                       Financial Controller, CARE
Dr. Matthew Okai                  FAO Representative in Lesotho
Philip Owusu                      World Bank Representative in Angola
Diakanga Pedro                    Assistant Financial Controller, CARE
Ben Van De Poll                   Agricultural Specialist, World Bank, AFT I
T.J. Ramots'oari                  Director,. Economics & Marketing, MOA
T.W. Sedio                        Irrigation. Technician, Crops Dept.. MOA
Makalo Theko                      Commissioner of Lands, Ministrv of Local Government, Lesotho
Sello Thulo                       Director of Field Services, MOA
Also,. the District Agricultural Officers (DAO) of Mafeteng, Thaba-Tseka, Leribe, and Butha Buthe.
Acknowledgenment
The author wvishes to thankiMessrs. TJRamotsoari, former Director of Economics andMarketing; MJ
Masiio. the Principal Secretary: Le/fi S. Lehloba. the Deputy Principal Secretary of the Ministry ofAgriculture
(IOA). for providing resouirces and supportive logistics. Also, the author is grateful to Ms. Seipati Molopa
andA1s. Ntlisi Mokitini. Assistant Economic Planners of MOA, for assisting with data collection and
travelling to the districts on reconnaissance surveys. The cooperation of Sakiva J Bunyasi, the TaskManager
and Serigne Omar Fve. the Environmental Specialist, and Parivash Mehrdadi of the World Bank are
appreciated
23



