Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3105 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Policy and Capacity Building Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 7, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3105 LSO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1998, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated May 15, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement its institutional reform and sectoral development strategy in agriculture 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from  the African Development Bank 
(AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AfDB 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Department for International 
Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom a grant (the DFID Grant) in an amount 
equivalent to $2,100,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DFID; 
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the  German Agency for Technical 
Cooperation (GTZ) a grant (the GTZ Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the GTZ Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and GTZ; 
Page  2
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union (EU) a grant 
(the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and EU;  and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 10 of  Resolution No. 183 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of  
any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives, 
Marketing and Youth Affairs; 
(b)
“Policy Analysis Team” means the team to be established pursuant to Part 
A.1(a) of the Project; 
(c)
“Unified Extension Service” means the unified extension service to be 
established pursuant to Part B. 1 of the Project; 
(d)
“Monitoring and Evaluation Team” means the team to be established 
pursuant to Part A.3(b) of the Project; 
(e)
“Change Process Management Team” means the team to be established 
pursuant to Part D.2 (b) of the Project; 
(f)
“Land Review Commission” means the commission to be established pursuant 
to Part C.1 of the Project; 
(g)
“DLSPP” means the Borrower’s Department of Lands, Survey and Physical 
Planning; 
Page  3
(h)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United 
Nations;
(i)
“Inter-Ministerial Development Committee” means the Committee to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan to be 
prepared pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or at the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(l)
“Districts” means the following districts of the Borrower, namely, Berea, 
Butha-Buthe, Leribe, Mafeteng, Maseru, Mohale’s Hoek, Mokhotlong, Qacha’s Nek, 
Quthing, and Thaba-Tseka, and the term “district” shall mean any of the aforementioned 
districts; and 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Lesotho on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association , including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
Page  4
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15  and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2008 and ending June 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2018 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of 
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, technical and agricultural practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
Page  5
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the  Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Page  6
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
the AfDB Loan Agreement, the DFID Grant Agreement, the GTZ Grant 
Agreement or the EU Grant Agreement shall have failed respectively to become effective 
by January 31, 1999 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been  
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or 
(B) any such loan shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity 
thereof; and 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraphs 
(c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:  
(a)
the Borrower has established the Inter-Ministerial Development Committee; 
and 
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Project Implementation 
Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMIN
4367
Maseru
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ Leketekete Victor Ketso (Dr)  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   520,000
90%
(2)
Equipment
   910,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
 2,000,000
100%
and studies
Page  8
(4)
Training and
   370,000
100%
workshops
(5)
Operating costs
   740,000
90%
(6)
Unallocated 
   560,000
 _________
 5,100,000
           TOTAL
 =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods, works and services of 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) services of 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iii) 
training, workshop and operating costs under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote agricultural growth and reduce 
poverty; (ii) put in place improved institutional and policy arrangements for the 
sustainable and efficient management, financing and delivery of public and private 
agricultural services in the Borrower’s territory; (iii) assist in redefining MOA’s 
core public role with a view to facilitating increased private sector participation in 
the provision of certain agricultural support services; (iv) turn MOA into a more 
priority/target oriented and client responsive establishment; and (v) build up 
capacity, particularly at the district level,  for agricultural planning and program 
implementation.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sector Strategy and Management
1.
(a)
Strengthening MOA’s capacity for essential policy analysis and strategy 
development, including the establishment of a Policy Analysis Team in MOA to: (i) 
assess the impact of the agricultural reform measures being undertaken under the 
Program; (ii) carry out or commission studies on the economic impact of external 
policy changes and domestic policy initiatives on agriculture; (iii) prepare an annual 
review of the state of the agricultural sector prior to the preparation of the 
Borrower’s annual budget; and (iv) prepare periodic updates of the Borrower’s 
agriculture sector strategy.
(b)
Provision of training (including seminars and workshops), technical 
advisory services, and publications and acquisition of equipment.
2.
(a)
Strengthening of agricultural sector planning capacity at the central and 
Page  9
district levels, including the establishment of a planning and budgeting team in MOA 
to: (i) assist districts to design (A) economic development strategies, and (B) work 
plans and budgets based on needs assessment generated through the Unified Extension 
Service; (ii) synthesize economic development strategies and work plans and budgets 
into a national rolling development plan and expenditure framework for the sector; 
(iii) develop criteria for the determination of expenditure priorities; and (iv) 
incorporate lessons of experience as identified by the Policy Analysis Team and the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Team. 
(b)
Provision of training and technical advisory services (including 
workshops and seminars) and acquisition of equipment.
3.
(a)
Strengthening MOA’s monitoring and evaluation capacity, including MOA’s 
capacity to: (i) identify project impact, particularly on its client delivery system; 
(ii) establish performance indicators and an effective monitoring and evaluation 
system; (iii) generate essential sectoral management information including financial 
and administrative data; (iv) conduct sector performance analysis using a suitable 
external institution; and (v) establish an effective management information system for 
different levels of decision makers.
(b)
Establishment in MOA of a Monitoring and Evaluation Team.
(c)
Provision of training and technical advisory services (including 
workshops and seminars) and acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
Part B:
Agricultural Support Services 
1.
The rationalization, decentralization and strengthening of the agricultural 
service delivery system in all districts of the Borrower’s territory, including the 
establishment of (i) a unified extension service with decentralized services in all 
districts of the Borrower’s territory, and (ii) clear research agenda and appropriate 
institutional arrangements, including the definition of roles of extension and 
research staff in respect of applied research to be carried out on individual farm 
plots. 
2.
(a)
Support for district services and innovative activities including  
activities piloting new approaches, outsourcing of extension services and developing 
farmers’ associations; and (ii) support for farming and community services including 
priority on-farm and community production activities, and acquisition of equipment for 
grazing associations, tree seedling distribution and seed and planting material 
production, marketing infrastructure and small scale irrigation.
(b)
Strengthening the policy, management and monitoring capacity of MOA’s 
technical services, including (i) a better definition of the support and incentive 
framework available to farmers and communities, in relation particularly to 
afforestation and conservation related activities, animal health functions, and the 
supply of seed and planting materials for commercial activities; (ii) marketing 
facilitation; and (iii) improvement of livestock base, including the monitoring and 
evaluation system of the technical services.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services, the carrying out of studies and 
acquisition of equipment.
Part C:
Land Management and Administration
1.
The establishment of a land review commission to: (i)  review the Borrower’s 
land policy and legislation; (ii) synthesize new policy principles and administrative 
guidelines; and (iii) make recommendations regarding the drafting of a new body of 
land legislation. 
2.
Rationalization of all activities relevant to land administration, including (i) 
the integration of the Borrower’s Deeds Registry into the Department of  Land, Survey 
and Physical Planning for effective land management; (ii) decentralization of DLSPP 
and personnel training; (iii) implementation of new business practice and management 
systems; (iv) modernization of the Deeds Registry and the cadastral information 
systems; and (v) the expansion of office space to facilitate full networking. 
Page  10
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s land information systems, including (i) the 
improvement of capacity for data gathering, analysis and dissemination; (ii) assisting 
the development of skills and the carrying out of awareness seminars; (iii) expansion 
of office space to house  additional equipment; (iv) acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles; (v) provision of technical advisory services, studies, training (including 
workshops, familiarization tours and staff attachments and capacity building for 
monitoring and evaluation); and (vi) printing and dissemination of maps, reports and 
manuals.
4.
Strengthening of spatial and physical land use planning in MOA and DLSPP and the 
development of guidelines for district and community use. 
5.
Provision of technical advisory services, studies, training (including workshops 
and familiarization tours on land use planning) and acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles.
Part D:
The Change Process Management 
1.
(a)
Development and implementation of MOA’s unified extension strategy, and 
restructuring and reorientating of its services and functions with a view to 
adequately addressing the needs and demands of its clients and communities.
(b)
Assisting MOA in the outsourcing of some of its extension and research 
services to the private sector. 
2.
(a)
Assisting MOA to carry out its restructuring plan including the 
decentralization and rationalization measures and strategies required for the 
implementation of MOA’s core support services.
(b)
The establishment of a Change Process Management Team to assist MOA with 
advice with respect to  (i) the carrying out by MOA of the reform changes required 
under the Project; and (ii) the measures required in the areas of financial and human 
resource management, monitoring and evaluation, privatization and decentralization 
with particular reference to MOA’s core agricultural services’ delivery system to 
clients. 
3.
Strengthening human resource management in MOA including (i) the definition of a 
human resource management policy and the introduction of an effective human resource 
management system; (ii) assessment of future skill mix availability and requirements; 
(iii) assisting in, and development of, human resource management training 
requirements; and (iv) support for more effective communication systems in MOA and the 
Public Service. 
4.
Strengthening the budgeting and accounting systems of MOA and sub-accountancies 
at the district level, including the recruitment and/or deployment of proficient 
accountants to the districts.
5.
The provision of technical advisory services, training (including workshops) and 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
6.
Implementation of the Borrower’s restructuring plan and program of privatizing 
selected agricultural enterprises, including: (i) the privatization of the clinical 
veterinary services and the veterinary drug stores; (ii) a review of the legal and 
regulatory framework for the privatization of veterinary services; (iii) the 
development of a framework for the privatization or transfer of wood lots; (iv) the 
construction of additional veterinary clinics in two districts; and (v) the 
establishment of a basic animal health service using the services of village 
veterinary workers in the remote parts of the Borrower’s territory. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Page  11
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of  
Section I of the  “Guidelines for the  Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A  (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: Grouping of 
Contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and motorcycles shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International or National Shopping
A limited number of vehicles, motorcycles, equipment and computers, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
A limited number of  vehicles, motorcycles, equipment and computers, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured from IAPSO under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $5,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.  
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Limited construction and rehabilitation works estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form  of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Page  12
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
 Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997,  subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A, (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and  “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance and training under 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for training, research and extension under the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  13
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Plan 
satisfactory to the Association setting out: (i) the details of all procurement and 
disbursement arrangements for the Project; (ii) the performance indicators set out in 
the Annex to this Schedule, said indicators being subject to modification by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) such other administrative, 
financial and organizational arrangements as shall be required for the Project; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 
4 and the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan.
2.
The Borrower: (i) shall obtain the consent of the Association before making any 
material changes in the Project Implementation Plan; and (ii) shall not make any such 
changes in the said Plan that are, in the opinion of the Association, likely to affect 
materially or adversely the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project. 
3.
(a)
MOA shall under the leadership of its Principal Secretary be responsible 
for overall policy guidance for, and operational direction to, the Project including 
matters pertaining to Project accounting and financial reporting. The Principal 
Secretary shall be assisted by the Change Process Management Team (which shall be 
assigned to MOA no later than January 1, 1999) in (i) the facilitation of (A) the 
overall institutional restructuring, (B) the Unified Extension Service, (C) 
privatization and divestiture, and (D) financial and human resource management; and 
(ii) such other measures as shall be required to carry out MOA’s functions under Part 
D of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall take all action necessary to facilitate the gradual 
Page  14
and phased devolution of Project implementation and decision making powers to the 
districts in accordance with a time schedule consistent with the progress of the 
decentralization reform being carried out by the Ministry of Local Government and a 
schedule satisfactory to the Association, said schedule being subject to modification 
by the Borrower in consultation with the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall establish an inter-ministerial development committee 
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The 
Inter-Ministerial Development Committee shall be responsible for the coordination of 
the Project.
(d)
The Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government shall: (i) be responsible for 
the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Association and to 
MOA the relevant reports pertaining to said Part of the Project.
(e)
MOA’s Department of Economics and Marketing with respect to Parts A, B 
and D of the Project, and the Ministry of Local Government with respect to Part C of 
the Project, shall respectively have overall responsibility for the systems and 
processes involved in Project reporting, monitoring and evaluation.
(f)
The Borrower shall, beginning with its financial year 1999/2000, prepare 
a separate budget for each enterprise participating in the divestiture program 
included in the Project.
(g)
The Borrower shall (i) no later than February 28, 1999 complete 
arrangements for the coming into operation of the Unified Extension Service; (ii) no 
later than June 30, 1999 bring the Unified Extension Service into full operation; and 
(iii) no later than February 28, 1999 establish the research agenda and the 
institutional arrangements required under Part B.1 of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
no later than November 1 each year, commencing from November 1, 1999, 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period of 12 months immediately 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Association, by December 15, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Association no later than 18 months after the 
Effective Date, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. 
The said mid-term review shall cover, among other things: (i) progress in meeting the 
Project’s objectives; and (ii) the performance by the Borrower of its obligations 
under the Project; and
(e)
carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the report of 
the mid-term review referred to in subparagraph (d) above, the recommendations of said 
review as agreed with the Association and set out in an action plan satisfactory to 
the Association.
5.
(a)
MOA shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Association no later than 
November 30, 1998 an annual work plan and budgets for the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association for the First Project Year; (ii) thereafter, no later than November 30 in 
each year, prepare and furnish to the Association said plan and budgets for each 
Page  15
subsequent Project Year until the completion of the Project. Each said plan and 
budgets shall include: (A) a detailed procurement plan and a rolling three-year budget 
for the districts, and (B) criteria satisfactory to the Association for the carrying 
out of the components of the Project relating to training, extension services and 
district development expenditures priorities including support to developing farmers’ 
associations, on-farm and community production activities and restructuring, 
decentralization and reform measures, said criteria being subject to modification by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) carry out the Project 
for each Project Year in accordance with the work plan and budgets as agreed with the 
Association, and not amend in any material respect such work plan and budgets except 
with the approval of the Association.
(b)
Without limitation to the Borrower’s obligations under subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph, MOA shall develop in consultation with the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economic Planning and furnish to the Association no later than June 30, 1999 criteria 
satisfactory to the Association for determining district development expenditure 
priorities.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Association no later 
than June 30, 1999 agricultural development strategies for its 10 districts; and (ii) 
update, as necessary, said strategies and furnish said updated strategies to the 
Association no later than November 30 of the following year until the completion of 
the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) no later than one year after the Effective Date 
carry out a public expenditure review satisfactory to the Association for MOA and 
DLSPP; and (ii) no later than two years after the Effective Date, prepare guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association for the carrying out by MOA and the Ministry of Local 
Government of decentralized district based implementation functions.
(e)
The Borrower shall no later than: (i) September 30, 1998, complete and 
furnish to the Association a confirmed staffing inventory for MOA’s headquarters and 
the districts; (ii) March 31, 1999 complete and furnish to the Association staff 
mapping for MOA in such detail as the Association shall require; and (iii) June 30, 
1999, prepare and carry out to the satisfaction of the Association a training needs 
assessment for the Project.
(f)
The Borrower shall no later than September 30, 1999: (i) complete a 
design, satisfactory to the Association, of improvements to a decentralized financial 
management system, including its monitoring and evaluation requirements; (ii) furnish 
to the Association an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for improvements 
in the monitoring and evaluation systems of MOA and DLSPP; and (iii) implement said 
action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Annex 
Performance Indicators 
1.
(a)
The Borrower’s fiscal allocation to publicly financed agricultural 
services to be decreased by 15% in real terms by December 2001. 
(b)
MOA’s share of budget spending at the district level to be increased to 
at least 60% of recurrent budget by December 2001, of which not more than 55% shall be 
allocated to personnel expenditures. 
2.
(a)
The Unified Extension Service to be operational by December 2001 in the 
10 districts with services delivered according to defined client categories and needs 
assessment.
(b)
Improved land legislation proposals to be finalized by December 2001.
(c)
The following actions to be taken with respect to the institutional 
restructuring of MOA: 
(i)
restructuring of district offices to be initiated by December 1998 
and 
completed by December 2000; 
Page  16
(ii)
rationalization of technical services to be initiated by December 
1999 and 
completed by December 2001; 
(iii)
staff decentralization to be initiated by December 1999 and 
completed by 
December 2000; and 
(iv)
a plan for divestment to be completed by March 1999.
(d)
The Borrower to divest itself of its agricultural enterprises in 
accordance with the schedule set out in the Program.
(e)
The financial management system and disaggregated accounting system for 
districts to be operational by December 1999.
(f)
Initial MOA’s public expenditure review based on 3 districts to be 
completed by September 1998, and the comprehensive MOA’s public expenditure review 
based on the 10 districts and details of the Unified Extension Service to be completed 
by September 1999. 
3.
The Borrower’s interventions in the agricultural sector to be phased out in 
accordance with the schedule set out in the Program. 
4.
(a)
The Association to be furnished with details of the Borrower’s economic 
strategy for agriculture and public services based on district economic strategies by 
September 1999. Said strategy to be used in the preparation of the Borrower’s annual 
budget for fiscal year 2000/2001.
(b)
The Borrower’s strategy for agriculture to be revised by December 2000.
(c)
MOA’s monitoring and evaluation system and management information system 
to be operational by December 2000. 
5.
Research agenda for agriculture to be completed by September 1999. 
6.
Land Review Commission to be appointed by December 1998. 
7.
Modernization and up-dating of land records to be completed by December 2001. 
8.
Rationalization of the agricultural research institutions to be completed by 
December 1999. 
9.
Review of institutional location of MOA’s non-core units together with an action 
plan to be ready by December 1999. 
10.
Privatization of agricultural enterprises to be carried out in accordance with 
the schedule set out in the Program. 
11.
MOA to furnish the Association by September 1998 with final staffing inventory 
for its headquarters and the districts. 
12.
The Borrower to formally approve and furnish to the Association by December 2000 
its approved human resource management policy for MOA.
13.
MOA to prepare and furnish to the Association by March 1999 the benchmarks for 
staffing levels and staff rationalization.
14.
The Borrower to appoint and assign accountants to the 10 districts by December 
1998.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  17
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $750,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  18
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
