Document of
The World Bank
FiOR OFFICIAiL USE ON(LY
Report No. 15738
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIION RFPORT
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1760-GM)
June 14, 1996
Population and Human Development Division
Western Africa Department
Mrica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the periormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__________________



CURRENCY EQUI1 kLENTS
US$I      =  D ~,.77
D I       =   US$0.1
D 1 million = US$102,354
MEAS URES
Im        =  1.09yd
I m       =  10.76 sq ft
I km2     =  0.38 sq ml
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DRF                Drug Revolving Fund
EDF                European Development Fund
GNP                Gross National Product
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
MoH                Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NHDP               National Health Development Project
ODA                Overseas Development Association
PHC                Primary Health Care
PIC                Project Implementation Committee
PMU                Project Management Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
SCFIIN             Sub-Committee on Family Health and Nutrition
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
UNCDF              United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNFPA              United National Population Fund
UNICEF             United Nations Children Fund
VDC                Village Development Committee
WHO                World Health Organization
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1760-GM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                              ........................................... i
PART I.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.  Introduction ................................1
II.  Project Objectives ................................1
III. Implementation Experience and Results ...............................    2
IV. Key Lessons Learned ............................... 9
PART II.  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4: Credit Disbursements .13
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .19
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................................. 20
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................       ........................ 21
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................... 21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................................ 22
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........... 27
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................ 27
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................ 28
Appendices:   Aide-Memoire
Borrower's Contribution
Map (IBRD No. 28010)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official dutes. Its contents may not othterwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CRI 1760-GM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Health
Development Project in The Gambia, for which Credit 1760-GM in the amount of SDR
4.7 million was approved on February 17, 1987, and made effective on November 2, 1987.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995, compared with the original closing date
of December 31, 1992. 97.1% of the credit was disbursed, and the last disbursement took
place on October 11, 1995. Cofinancing for the project in the amount of US$1.0 million
was provided by the Netherlands. Parallel financing in the amount of US$20.4 million was
provided by China, Italy, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, UNCDF and the EDF.
The ICR Part I was prepared by Edward Brown, former Task Manger; Part II (the
statistical annexes) was prepared by Angelika Pradel and Myrina McCullough (AF5PH);
the entire ICR was reviewed by Richard Seifman (Nutritionist) and Ok Pannenborg,
(Division Chief), AF5PH, and by Emmerich Schebeck, Project Advisor, AF5DR. The
Borrower provided comments which are incorporated in the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
March 1995. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, the WHO evaluation report, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Borrower and the Bank and other relevant material in the project file. The Borrower, and
in particular, the Project Manager Yaya Sanyang, contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by submitting his own evaluation report which is attached as an annex. All pertinent
comments from the Government have also been taken into account to the extent possible.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1760-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                                 Cr. 1760
Credit Amount:                                 SDR 4.7 million (US$ 5.6 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                                 Ministry of Health
Date effective:                                November 2, 1987
Date closed:                                   June 30, 1995
Cofinancing:                                   (see Table 8b)
Introduction
1 .    The National Health Development Project (Credit 1760-GM) was the first Bank operation in
the health sector in The Gambia. It was developed in response to the National Health Development
Program (NHDP) which sought to address acute national health problems by strengthening
institutional, management and financial capacity at all levels of service delivery and extending health
services to underserved areas.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The objectives of the Project, as stated in the Development Credit Agreement, were (i)
strengthening and expansion of Gambia's national health program; (ii) the decentralization of health
sector management; (iii) the improvement of health sector planning; and (iv) the introduction of a more
effective cost recovery system. The components were structured around two main Parts: Part A was a
series of sectoral reforms aimed at strengthening sector management, finance and support services
and Part B was a series of investments aimed at strengthening primary health care (PHC) and
extending services to underserved areas.
Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The Project's objectives were consistent with The Gambia's strategy for economic recovery
and development and were in accordance with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The objectives
and corresponding project components responded adequately to the pressing needs of the sector at the
time; however, they were ambitious, covering a wide range of sector issues at different levels at a time
and in a country with limited management and institutional capacity. Moreover, the Bank had no
experience in this sector in the country. Given this complexity, preparation of the project could have
benefited from better assessment of relative risk and alternative project design, more specific
performance criteria for monitoring project objectives, and baseline data for setting realistic indicators.
Flexibility in project design, however, permitted changes where technical soundness in the original
design became questionable. In addition, the Project's multi-donor effort permitted substantial
resource mobilization and provided the basis for extensive donor coordination. As a result, the Project



was constructively more complex than it would have been as a straightforward investment activity, and
can be viewed as a predecessor of the current sector investment credit approach.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Part A. The objectives of assisting the Govemment to restructure health management and
administration at the central level and to strengthen institutional capacities through decentralized
management and financial resource mobilization were substantially achieved. However, Support
Services which was a subcomponent of the sectoral reform objective was only partially achieved.
5.    Part B. Project investments to upgrade technical skills of service providers (including
traditional community-based health providers), rehabilitate, upgrade, construct and equip health
facilities, and coordinate reproductive health activities were substantially achieved. Contributions to
improvements in the quality and coverage of basic health services include: (a) the establishment of an
"at risk nurse" management training program and a nurse anesthetics training program; (b)
establishment of a ferry boat system to ensure timely referral of complicated medical cases from the
north bank of the River Gambia to Banjul; (c) expansion of PHC to the underserved Westem Region;
(d) the expansion of communicable disease prevention and treatment programs, including the provision
of drugs, laboratory supplies, and in-service training to nurses; and (e) the establishment at Bansang
hospital of a nursing school with teaching equipment and materials. This led to the development of a
cadre of local nurse instructors and senior nursing staff, and promoted the integration of primary health
care courses into the curricula of the Community Health Nurses training program.
6.    Not all Part B investment objectives were fully met or met in the anticipated time frame,
however. The expansion of PHC to the pern-urban areas of Banjul and the training of selected Village
Development Committee members in financial management were not achieved. Furthermore, very
little of the operational research under the nutrition subcomponent was carried out. Moreover, the civil
works element was slow to begin and, due to inadequate physical specifications and an underestimation
of contingencies, considerable cost overruns were experienced. However, reprogramming of project
funds, re-prioritization of the rehabilitation needs and complementary funding provided by other
donors, permitted the completion of about 95% of the required civil works.
Project Sustainability
7.    The prospects for sustainability of project interventions are good. The sectoral reform elements
of the Project, in particular the central reorganization of health management and administration, the
decentralized management of health services at the district level, and the introduction of a nationwide
cost recovery program have laid a good foundation for effective health service delivery in The Gambia.
While more needs to be done to improve the amount and composition of health manpower, the
strengthening of the nurses training program has laid the foundation for a more enduring improvement
in health manpower. It is anticipated that the current weaknesses in the PHC program and support
services would be addressed under the proposed health population and nutrition project. However, the
July 1994 coup d'etat has slowed the preparation process considerably, and this may lead to significant
loss and reversal of some of the Project's achievements and their sustainability, unless the follow up
project is initiated without further delay.



iii
Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives
8.    Four categories of factors adversely affected the Govemment's capacity to implement the
Project: limited management and organizational capacity, manpower constraints, weak systems-wide
budgetaiy processes, and limited Government commitment to the implementation of certain policy
decisions (see paras 3.15-3.18).
IDA and Borrower Performance
9.    Project identification was consistent with The Gambia's health policy and the economic
recovery program. The original components of the Project as defined at identification were mainly
investments (Part B). However, reform elements were included only during appraisal which explains,
in part, delays in implementing some of the reform elements. A post-appraisal mission to further
advance the dialogue and strengthen stakeholders commitment to the reform elements would have been
essential. In this regard, appraisal of the project could be considered as less than satisfactory. The
Government was actively involved in the preparation of the project and demonstrated a strong
commitment to the investment part of the Project.
10.   Project supervision was satisfactory. Implementation problems were identified in a timely
fashion and sufficient advice was given to address the problems to the extent possible. The
cooperation with the Borrower and the cofinanciers was excellent. During the first two years of project
implementation, the performance of the PMIU was deficient due primarily to the lack of familiarity with
IDA rules and regulations. As experience improved, so did performance. Performance of contractors,
consultants, and technical assistants was generally good. Few breaches of covenants did take place
(see para 3.23), yet overall compliance with the legal covenants was acceptable.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   Implementation of this Project has provided valuable experience in highlighting areas where
work is needed to improve quality, access, and coverage of public health service delivery. The key
lessons are: (a) the need to provide adequate lead-time for implementation of targeted interventions; (b)
the need for up-front agreement/ownership/implementation of key policy objectives to improve quality
at entry; (c) the need for caution in establishing Inter-ministerial coordination committees; (d) the
importance of physical integration of project coordination unit into the parent ministry; (e); the need for
simpler project design and development; and (f) the need for improvements in project management
through training and establishment of effective accounting and financial management systems prior to
project effectiveness.
12.   The incorporation of the lessons learned in future operations in the sector has been an ongoing
process of dialogue with the Government. The completion, immediately following the coup d'etat of
July 22, 1994, of a National Health Policy Document and the preparation of the second phase of the
National Health Development Program 1994-2000, drew extensively from the lessons leamed under
this Project and the Bank's Sector Investment Program approach. The new operation would build on
the experience of this Project in addressing family health, family planning and nutritionally-related
issues. It would rely heavily on community participation and capitalize on potential partnerships with
NGOs, the private sector, and research institutions operating in The Gambia.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR 1760-GM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
Economic Situation and Health Sector Policies
1.1  In 1984, The Gambia was one of the poorest countries in the world, suffering from a
scarcity of natural and human resources, decreasing Government revenues and foreign exchange
reserves. The GNP per capita was US$260 and the economic growth was far below the
population rate of 3.5%. Health indicators were equally poor, with a life expectancy at birth of 42
years, and infant mortality rate of 125 per 1,000 live births and a maternal mortality rate of 1,000
per 100,000 live births. Malnutrition, infections, a high fertility rate of 6.5, complications at
pregnancy and childbirth, malaria, anemia, diarrhea and respiratory tract infections were the major
causes of high mortality and morbidity rates. Since 1975 The Gambia has sought to address these
health problems by placing more emphasis on extending health services to rural areas. In 1979, a
Primary Health Care (PHC) policy was adopted an major resource shifts were announced: From
urban to rural and from curative to preventive. This was evidenced by the reduction of allocations
to hospitals in the health recurrent budget from 70% during the period 1966/77, to 47% in
1982/83, and to 35% in 1986/87. The health project (Credit 1760-GAM) marked the beginning
of the Bank's involvement in the health sector in The Gambia and it was designed as the main
thrust of the Government's National Health Development Program (NHDP).
Il.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. Original Project Objectives
2.1   The objectives of the Project were: (i) the strengthening and expansion of The Gambia's
health program; (ii) the decentralization of health sector management, (iii) the improvement of
health sector planning; and (iv) the introduction of a more effective cost recovery system.
B.    Project Description and Components
2.2   Project components were structured around two main Parts: Part A was a series of
sectoral reforms aimed at strengthening health sector management, finance and support
systems, through: (a) central reorganization, including reorganization of the Ministry of Health
(MoH), and granting of semi-autonomy to the two Government hospitals (the Royal Victoria and
Bansang Hospitals); (b) decentralization of health administration at the district level; (c)
establishment of a cost recovery system; and (d) strengthening of support systems, including
transportation and communications. Part B was a series of investments aimed at strengthening
national health services through: (a) the expansion of primary health care (PHC) to the Western



2
Region and the peri-urban areas of Banjul; (b) training of health service providers; (c)
rehabilitation, upgrading and new construction of health facilities; (d) coordination of family
health, nutrition and family planning activities; and (e) monitoring and evaluation.
C.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements
2.3   All conditions of effectiveness were met as expected. In addition, special covenants or
agreements were included in the DCA to promote achievement of the project objectives: the
Borrower was expected to: (i) prepare and thereafter review annually, with the Association a
three-year rolling plan satisfactory to the Association for investment and recurrent expenditures in
the health sector, with the annual development and recurrent budgets for the fiscal year
immediately following; (ii) establish and thereafter maintain a Project Implementation Committee
(PIC) with oversight functions in the management of the Project, and a Sub-committee on Family
Health and Nutrition (SCFHN); and (iii) carry out and furnish the Association for its review and
comments, the results of a mid-term evaluation on December 31, 1989 and a final evaluation by
December 1992. These agreements were all complied with. However, the PIC and its Sub-
committee (SCFHN) met regularly only during the first two years of the Project, after which the
meetings became sporadic and eventually ceased.
D.    Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.4   The Project's objectives were consistent with The Gambia's strategy for economic
recovery and development, and were in accordance with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
The objectives and corresponding project components responded adequately to the pressing needs
of the sector at the time; however, they were ambitious, covering a wide range of sector issues at
different levels, and at a time and in a country with limited management and institutional capacity.
Moreover, the Bank had no experience in this sector in the country. Given that this was the first
Bank-funded investment in the health sector in The Gambia, preparation, especially objective
setting, could have benefited from: (a) a better assessment of relative risks and alternative project
design; (b) more specific performance criteria/indicators for monitoring achievements of project
objectives; and (c) baseline data for setting realistic indicators. However, the flexibility of the
project design permitted changes where technical soundness in the original design became
questionable. In addition, the Project's multi-donor effort permitted substantial resource
mobilization and provided the basis for extensive donor coordination. As a result, the Project was
constructively more complex than it would have been as a straightforward investment activity, and
can be viewed as a predecessor of the current sector investment credit approach.
Im.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    Achievements of Project Objectives
3.1   Sectoral Reform Objectives (Part A). The objectives of assisting the Government to
restructure health management and administration at the central level, and to strengthen
institutional capacities through decentralized management and financial resource mobilization
were substantially achieved. The granting of semi-autonomous status to the two Government
hospitals (Royal Victoria and Bansang hospitals) through the establishment of hospital
management boards and the devolution of financial management authority through direct



3
budgetary allocation, substantially improved the availability and quality of tertiary health services
in the country. It not only enabled them to improve their daily management but also have access
to private funding, and have greater assurance of drugs and supplies. Personnel management
autonomy allowed hospitals to offer incentives outside the civil service structure, leading to
improved recruitment and retention of staff, a problem that continues to plague the rest of The
Gambia civil service.
3.2   Decentralization of health management to the districts was substantially achieved. Health
Teams now, largely control their training programs and deployment of staff, elaborate work plans
and budgets, and these form the basis for national health sector planning. They also now have
limited discretionary spending authority for stationary and other supplies. At the community
level, however, more needs to done to strengthen Village Development Committees, an element
of the project which has yet to be achieved.
3.3    The objective of establishing an effective cost recovery system was substantially achieved.
Although the level of revenue generated by the system was below expectations (35% compared to
expected 100%), the then existing fee collection system was considerably improved, availability of
drugs and medical supplies, staff moral, and quality of service delivery were dramatically
improved. The additional resources generated by the cost recovery system complemented
Government budgetary allocations and helped increase the total resources available to the health
sector. Given the less than full recovery of the cost of drugs and medical supplies, the
Government lived up to its commitment at credit negotiations of assuring at all times, sufficient
funds in the health budget to meet the costs of drugs and medical supplies. The low level of
revenue collected was principally due to three factors: (a) high exemptions--over 60% of
beneficiaries were exempted from fees--and the reluctance of the Government to change this
policy for political reasons; (b) weak management--inadequate personnel to manage a system
which required a skill mix different from that traditionally available in the health sector; and (c)
lack of effective accounting mechanism--the initial reluctance of the Government to permit
revenue retention at the point of collection, as all revenue must go into the consolidated budget
for redistribution. These constraints are now being addressed through a restructuring exercise
being undertaken under the Bamako Initiative.
3.4    A key element of the sectoral reform objective, which was only partially achieved was
Support Services. Both the transport services and the communication network subcomponents
functioned poorly. With regard to transport services, after the initial good start, during which all
the key activities were implemented (Table 5), changes in the management and withdrawal of
ODA technical assistance, led to decline in the maintenance capacity and consequent decline in the
level of fleet availability. The latter, however, is due more to the high costs of replacement
vehicles which the Government has had difficulties funding without external aid. Worth noting,
nevertheless, are some of the structural/institutional changes introduced under this component:
the establishment of routine maintenance facilities in each Region; the construction of a central
maintenance workshop in Banjul; and the rationalization of fuel distribution, including regional
storage facilities. Poor management of the overall transport services has led, however, to a less
than satisfactory achievement of the underlying objectives of the support services subcomponent.
3.5   The communication network designed to improve the quality of supervision of PHC and
patient referrals between the different levels of health facilities was scaled down by a third due to



4
funding difficulties. In addition, technical difficulties, lack of training and capacity to supervise
the maintenance of the equipment led to rapid deterioration. The Italian Government and the
United Nations Capital Development Fund financed and supported the installation of the network.
Although not completely superseded by the recent extension of the telephone network in the
country (all the major health facilities are now within reach of telephone communication), except
for very remote areas, this type of radio technology, given the maintenance cost, has become
increasingly a less appropriate communication technology in health service delivery in The
Gambia.
3.6   Strengthening National Health Services (Part B). Project investments to upgrade
technical skills of service providers (including traditional community-based health providers),
rehabilitate, upgrade, construct and equip health facilities were substantially achieved.
Contributions to improvements in the quality and coverage of basic health services include: (a) the
establishment of an "at risk nurse" management training program and a nurse anesthetics training
program to address the high level of maternal and child mortality. These innovative technical
redesign efforts were undertaken in response to the human resource constraints which had
become more apparent immediately after credit effectiveness. Both training programs were highly
commended by the Western Africa College of Surgeons and WHO for their effective and
appropriate response to the local situation; (b) establishment of a ferry boat system to ensure
timely referral of complicated medical cases from the north bank of the River Gambia to Banjul;
(c) expansion of PHC to the underserved Western Region; (d) the expansion of communicable
disease prevention and treatment programs, including the provision of drugs, laboratory supplies
and in-service training to nurses; and (e) the establishment at Bansang hospital of a school for
training nurses, including the provision of teaching equipment, materials and development of a
cadre of local nurse instructors and senior nursing staff at the school, and the integration of
primary health care subjects into the curricula of the Community Health Nurses training program.
3.7   Physical Objectives. A major achievement of the project was the establishment of
secondary level health delivery facilities through the upgrading/construction, equipping and
staffing of 8 major health centers to relieve the burden on the two tertiary level hospitals and bring
basic health services closer to the population. Four of these secondary level health facilities are
now able to deal with minor surgical operations and medical complications and only refer major
medical complications to the two tertiary level hospitals, thus completing the three-tier health
delivery pyramid for The Gambia, as envisaged in its national health plan. Furthermore, essential
services (water and electricity) of many health facilities were rehabilitated, rendering them more
functional and thus providing greater access to the population. In addition, the construction of
several staff housing units (about 32 units) has helped to partially alleviate one of the perennial
problems the MoH has faced in redeployment of health personnel to remote and underserved
areas.
3.8   Not all Part B investment objectives were fully met or met in the anticipated time frame,
however. The expansion of PHC to the peri-urban areas of Banjul was not achieved, due to
delays in the completion of the study expected to inform and guide the implementation of the
program. The training of selected Village Development Committee members in basic principles of
accounting and financial management was also not implemented. Very little of the operational
research envisaged under the nutrition subcomponent of the project was carried out. The
coordination role of the SCFHN was never achieved. The civil works element was slow to begin,



5
and due to inadequate physical specifications and an underestimation of contingencies,
considerable cost overruns were experienced. However, the reprogramming of project funds, re-
prioritization of the rehabilitation needs and complementary funding provided by other donors
(such as the UK/ODA, the Dutch Government, the EU, and UNFPA), permitted completion of
about 95% of the proposed civil works under the Project.
B.    Summary of Project Costs, Financing Arrangements and Implementation
Timetable.
3.9   Project Costs. The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$20.8 million
equivalent (net of taxes) with a foreign exchange component of US$17.8 million (86%). Base
cost estimates were in November 1986 prices. The breakdown of project cost in local and foreign
currencies is given in Table 8A.
3.10 Financial Arrangements. IDA's contribution at appraisal was estimated at US$5.6 million
equivalent (November 1986 exchange rate with SDR) and the Government participation at
US$1.3 million equivalent. Total credit amount disbursed at ICR preparation (US$6.1 million
equivalent) was higher than anticipated at appraisal due to changes in the US$/SDR exchange rate
(Table 4). Government's actual contribution of $5.73 million equivalent was higher than
anticipated at appraisal. In addition to the operating costs of the project unit (US$0.30), the
Government funded the Drug revolving fund ($4.22 m.) and 32 staff housing units ($1.2 m.).
Furthermore, even this figure excludes incremental staff costs covered by the Government.
Detailed breakdown of donor contributions is shown in Table 8B.
3.11  Implementation schedule. Project preparation took about 14 months (September 1985 to
January 1987), which was within the norm for the sector. Project effectiveness was delayed from
May to November 1987, due to delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness, in particular that
relating to the recruitment of the project manager. The original closing date was June 1992,
however, the project was extended for an additional three years to June 1995, to enable the
completion of civil works activities, which had been delayed for reasons mentioned above.
C.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives
3.12  Four categories of factors adversely affected the Government's capacity to implement the
Project: limited management and organization capacity, manpower constraints, weak systems-
wide budgetary process, and limited Government commitment in the implementation of selected
policy decisions.
3.13 Management and organizational capacity to execute a multi-donor project of this
magnitude and complexity was inadequate. From the beginning, the PMU was not provided with
the full complement of staff needed to carry out its functions. The project management unit was
run for the most part by only two persons--the project manager and an accounts clerk. In
addition, lack of experience in Bank procedures, in particular procurement and disbursements, led
to delays in achieving targets. However, the situation soon improved with the recruitment of a
procurement officer and a more dynamic project manager. The Project had three project
managers, four project coordinators (i.e. the Permanent Secretaries of MoH) and four Ministers
of Health and three task managers during its lifetime. There was, however, a steady five-year



6
period (1989-94) when the principal actors remained the same except for the Ministers, and this
was the period during which implementation was most successful. With regard to the PIC, while
there was great hope for its role at the beginning, with frequent changes in the memberships, and
infrequent meetings, it became increasingly ineffective and ceased to function by the end of the
second year. Moreover, the SCFHN due the lack of effective leadership functioned very poorly at
the beginning and eventually its functions were de facto taken over by the two national NGOs (the
Gambia Family Planning Association and the Gambia Food and Nutrition Association).
3.14 Manpower constraints constituted a major bottleneck in the implementation of the Project.
Limited high and intermediate level technical, medical and administrative staff, and the high
personnel turnover were major obstacles. While considerable efforts continue to be made to train
Gambian physicians and attract private practitioners, the number is inadequate to meet the
minimum level of staff complement needed to effectively operate the major health facilities. Over
60% of physicians in the public sector in The Gambia are expatriates of short-term duration (two
years), making it costly to invest in training and upgrading of skills. The situation is equally
desperate among the other levels of health personnel: nurses, paramedics, and the new cadre of
administrative staff (management and accounting) to support and sustain the reform efforts in
decentralization and cost recovery. A considerable effort was made to address these issues under
the Project, however, the underlying problems are systemic rather than sector specific, and are
thus beyond the control of MoH. High attrition rates are not unique to the health sector and are
principally a reflection of the overall scarcity of well trained technical manpower in the country.
Moreover, the rigid conditions of recruitment into the civil service, the poor remuneration and
less than stringent rules on staff retention after training contributed to the high turnover. (This
issue would have to be considered under the Country Assistance Strategy for The Gambia when
donor agencies, including the Bank, resume active development.) assistance.
3.15   Other systems-wide issues also affect health sector performance, in particular a
cumbersome budgetary process. The inadequate monitoring of budget allocation against
expenditures by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, led in the early stages of the
project to overspending by some sectors to the detriment of others, in particular the health sector.
This created funding difficulties, with consequent delays in the implementation of some project
components.
3.16 Lack of initial Government commitment contributed to delays in project implementation--
rather than non-implementation--of certain elements of the Project. The hospital reform effort
took much longer than had been anticipated due to resistance from MoH management.
Resistance from the Treasury to permit retention of user chargers at the points of collection,
rendered full cost recovery impossible. Moreover, delays in restructuring the of the cost recovery
fee system to reduce exemptions was due to initial resistance from some stakeholders since it was
proposed during the election year.
D.    Project Sustainability
3.17  The prospects for sustainability of project interventions are good. The sectoral reform
elements of the Project, in particular central reorganization of health management and
administration, the decentralized management of health services at the district level and the
introduction of a nationwide cost recovery program have laid a good foundation for effective



7
health service delivery in The Gambia. The integration of the technical and administrative wings
of the MoH has led to greater cohesion in planning and coordination of public health services at
the central level. However, further work needs to be done to clearly define the institutional loci
and role of some of the sub units (namely the epidemiology and statistics unit, and the directorate
of support services) which were the subject of considerable controversy during the
implementation of the reorganization program.
3.18  While more needs to done to improve the number and composition of health manpower,
the establishment in Bansang of the nurses training program and the integration of PHC subjects
into the nurses curricula have helped strengthen the program and provided a good basis for
further expansion. With regard to the PHC program, it is anticipated that the proposed health,
population and nutrition project will help strengthen community participation and thereby improve
sustainability. The considerable decline in the transport fleet, renders the current transportation
arrangement unsustainable. Moreover, while the ferry ambulances perform a critical function,
they have been poorly maintained and most have fallen into disrepair. Here again, it is envisaged
that the follow-up project would examine the support services issues more broadly. With regard
to the low level of cost recovery, the Government had already initiated under the Project, through
the Bamako Initiative, mechanisms to ensure increased revenue levels, through retention of
revenues at the centers of collection and through greater community participation in planning and
resource management. To consolidate and further scale-up initiatives started under this Project, it
was anticipated that the proposed follow-up project would have by now become effective.
However, the July 1994 coup d 'Wtat, slowed down considerably the preparation process, due to
the suspension of new external aid from the Bank and other donors. Moreover, major changes in
the administration of the MoH (with new actors with limited experience and knowledge of sector
issues), have led to a slow down in the reform efforts. These recent extemal shocks may lead to
significant loss and reversal of some of the Project's achievements unless the follow-up project is
initiated without further delay.
E.    Bank Performance
3.19  The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Project identification was consistent
with The Gambia's health policy and the economic recovery program. The original components
of the Project as defined at identification were mainly investments (Part B). However, during
preparation, further diagnosis and analysis of sector issues and policies revealed the importance of
introducing sectoral reforms to buttress the proposed investments. Thus reform elements were
including during appraisal. This addition, however, left open the possibility that certain sectoral
issues were inadequately fleshed-out or did not receive adequate review by key stakeholders. This
explains, in part, the delays experienced in implementing some of the reform elements. In
addition, two key elements which constituted the main thrust of the project at identification
(nutrition and family health), were considerably marginalized at appraisal and thus did not
received adequate funding. Although time and resources devoted to project preparation and
appraisal seemed adequate, the Project could have benefited from a post-appraisal mission to
further advance the dialogue and firm-up the details on the reform elements and streamline the
investment component. These had to be dealt with during supervision. In this regard, the
appraisal could be considered as less than satisfactory.



8
3.20  Project supervision was satisfactory. Implementation problems were identified in a timely
fashion and sufficient advice was given to address the problems to the extent possible. Follow up
on advice and the decisions taken during missions were adequate. Bank staff flexibly dealt with
necessary modifications. The cooperation with the Borrower and the cofinanciers was excellent.
Implementation followed Bank policies and procedures. With 14 supervision missions in seven
years of project implementation, sufficient time was spent in the field. However, reporting on the
Project became less detailed with the beginning of discussions on the follow-up project at the end
of 1992, when the project was extended to permit the completion of outstanding civil works.
F. Borrower's Performance
3.21   The Government was actively involved in the preparation of the project. For this purpose,
support was provided by the inter-ministerial Health Planning Committee. Throughout project
preparation, Government demonstrated a strong commitment to the Project. Performance during
preparation was, thus, satisfactory. However, performance during implementation faulted as new
actors revisited the objectives of some the reform efforts vested interested
3.22  During the first two years of project implementation, the performance of the PMU was
deficient, mainly due to the lack of familiarity with IDA rules and regulations and the lack of
effectiveness of the PIC. As experience improved, so did performance. Performance of
contractors, consultants and technical assistants was generally good. In cases of less than
satisfactory performance, the Project could have benefited from timely replacement. In addition,
financial management was less than satisfactory throughout project implementation, reflecting the
weak capacity of MoH in this area. The performance of the Auditor General in auditing the
project accounts was also less than satisfactory. However, the auditor was changed getting to the
end of the project with objective of introducing a new accounting system for the follow up
project. Apart from a few breaches of covenants, such as the failure to maintain the SCFHN and
the PIC during the Project's life-time, compliance with the legal covenants was satisfactory.
E.    Assessment of Project Outcomes
3.23  Despite the many difficulties encountered in implementation, the Project resulted in a
number of achievements, many of which are of an enduring and sustainable nature. At the
sectoral reform level, major accomplishments are the institutional restructuring and management
strengthening. Central reorganization, has led to better streamlining of technical and management
responsibilities. An important indicator of enhanced capacity at the MoH is the quality of the
recently produced national health policy document and the strategy for the second phase of the
national health development program. These documents were developed with little intervention
from external partners; both the diagnosis of health sector issues and proposals to address them
were well done, reflecting lessons learned through the implementation of this and other projects
and provided, prior to the coup, the basis for a coordinated sector interventions. The semi-
autonomy of the hospitals, decentralized health management and cost recovery have set the stage
for a more effective and efficient delivery of public health services. Despite the financial
limitations of the cost recovery system, the introduction of a nation-wide fee-for-service system
has become generally accepted by the population and with continuing improvements in the quality
of services, the impact on health would be significant.



9
3.24  At the level of specific investments, the development of secondary (intermediate) level
health service delivery facilities fills a major gap in the public health delivery pyramid. These are
infrastructure investments which the Government is committed to sustaining. Expansion of PHC
to the Western Region has considerably increased coverage of basic health services in the country.
However, quality of health services remains a major problem. This is reflected in the fact that
national health indicators for The Gambia remain very low, posing an enormous challenge for the
Government and its partners to intensity efforts to improve health status.
H.   Future Operations
3.25  The incorporation of the lessons learned in future operations in the sector has been an
ongoing process of dialogue with the Government. The completion, immediately following the
coup d'etat of July 22, 1994, of a National Health Policy Document, and the preparation of the
second phase of the National Health Development Program 1994-2000, drew extensively from the
lessons learned under this Project, and the Bank's Sector Investment Program approach. The
long hiatus (two years) in the preparation of the follow-up project due to the 1994 coup, has led
to some modifications in the proposed project, which is not to be a sector investment operation.
Notwithstanding, however, the new operation would build on the lessons of this Project,
principally address family health, family planning and nutrition and related critical support. It
would rely heavily on community participation and capitalize on potential partnerships with
NGOs, the private sector and research institutions operating in The Gambia.
IV. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
4.1   Implementation of this Project has provided valuable experience in highlighting a number
of weaknesses and challenges to improve quality, access and coverage by a public health service
delivery system. This knowledge will be reflected in the design and development of the next Bank
operation in the health sector, currently under preparation.
4.2   Provision of adequate lead-time. The relative lack of experience of the Bank in the sector
in the country led to a more ambitious setting of goals and deadlines. Experience with the Project
suggests that, particularly in a democratic setting where parliamentary approval is required for
many policy decisions, adequate consideration must be given to the time required to obtain
approval through the various levels of decision making.
4.3    Up-front agreement,implementation of key policy objectives. The painstaking effort and
considerable amount of time needed to obtain approval for the implementation of agreed policy
reforms, underscores the importance of initiating implementation of critical policy decisions prior
to project effectiveness. The evidence suggest that after project effectiveness, loss of leverage
leads to delays, as manifested in the delays in creating the semi-autonomy for the hospitals,
implementation of the cost recovery system, and devolution of budgetary authority to the district
health teams.
4.4   The ineffectiveness of Interministerial coordination committees. Experience under this
Project has shown that coordination committees are generally ineffective, and make little or no
contribution to effective project implementation. Due, principally to frequent changes in



10
membership, commitment of PIC members was weak. Attendance at meeting was infrequent and
most seemed to have been attracted by the perks provided. Future operations in the sector should
be circumspect in proposing such an arrangement.
4.5   The importance of physical integration of project coordination unit into the parent
ministry. The success of this project as being the thrust of the public health development program
in The Gambia during the last eight years was due principally to it being fully owned by MoH.
The location of the PMU within the Ministry contributed a great deal to this ownership. The
project manager was regarded as full member of the MoH management team. Donors channeled
their resources through the PMU, and this has helped strengthen the Government's aid
coordination.
4.6   Project design and development. Project objectives should be sufficiently modest and
based on sound knowledge of the sectoral issues and constraints. Efforts should be made to
compile reliable baseline data in order to set realistic and clear targets and to define easily
measurable indicators. Complexity should take into account the capacity of implementing
agencies to effectively monitor and implement each element of the project. Early implication of
the stakeholders, including beneficiaries, service providers. local authorities, NGOs and key
donors involved in the sector would enhance ownership and commitment to implementation. Key
policy issues should be implemented up-front as much as possible.
4.7    With regard to project management, the most important lessons are: (a) the importance of
providing the management unit with the full complement of staff. In addition to the
manager/coordinator, accounting, and procurement staff are essential; (b) the need to provide
project staff with sufficient training in procurement and other Bank procedures and requirements;
(c) the importance of integrating project management into the core functions of the Ministry in
order build management capacity and ownership; and (d) the need to define and establish during
project preparation, the accounting and financial management systems and to have them in place
at effectiveness. This would ensure effective start-up and avoid delays.
A Valued Microsofl Customer
A:\ICR63.DOC
June 14, 1996 4:20 PM



II
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of
Objectives                        Substantial Partial         Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                      [I  ]         [  ]           [  ]          [IX]
Sectorpolicies                       [ X]         [  ]           [  ]          [  ]
Financial objectives                 [  ]         [ X]           L  ]          [  ]
Institutional development            [X]          L  ]           [  ]          L  ]
Physical objectives                  [ X ]        [  ]           L  ]          [  ]
Povertyreduction                     L  ]         L  ]           [  ]          [X]
Gender issues                        [  ]         [  ]           L  ]          [ X]
Other social objectives              [  ]         L  ]           [  ]          [ X]
Environmental objectives             [  ]         L  ]           [  ]          [ X ]
Public sector management             [ X]         [  I           L  ]          L  ]
Private sector development           L  ]         L  I           [  ]          L X ]
Other(specify)                       [IX]         [  ]           L  ]          [  ]
B. Project Sustainability           Likely               Unlikely       Uncertain
Program of Reforms                   [ X I                I  ]          I  I
Program of Investments               I X  ]                 I      I      I ]
C. Bank Performance                  Highly satisfactory Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                       L  ]                 I XI          [  ]
Preparation Assistance               L  ]                 I X]         I  I
Appraisal                                                 ]  L   ]     I X ]
Supervision                          L  I                 I X]          L I
D. Borrower Performance             Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                         LI  I                 IX]           LI  I
Implementation                       L  ]                 I X]         I  I
Covenant Compliance                 LI  ]                 I X]          I  ]
Operation                            L  II  I                           LI ]
E. Assessment of Outcome            Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
I  ]                 [X]            LI  ]



12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title                       Purpose                     Year of      Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
NONE IN HEALTH
SAL                    The Structural Adjustment Program brought      1986      Completed
about significant changes in many sectors
(financial, public enterprises, fisheries, and
agriculture). Inasmuch as the SAL brought the
country out of a severe financial crisis and the
economy back into a positive growth path--all
during the years of the health project--its impact
was of importance for the NHDP.
Following Operations
Women in               Containing a PHC element to complement the    5/1990      Ongoing
Development            effort of the health project in extending PHC
services to larger areas of the country.
Source: Bank MOP, MIS



13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned                 Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                       February 1985                September 1985
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                          February '85-December '85    September '85-Januarv ~87
Appraisal                            December 1985                January 1986
Negotiations                         July 1986                    November 1986
Board Presentation                   October 1986                 February 1987
Signing                              March 1987                   June 1987
Effectiveness                        May 1987                     November 1987
Mid-term Review                      December 1989                September 1993
Credit Closing Date                  June 31, 1992                June 30, 1995
Project Completion Closing Date      December 3 1, 1992           December 31, 1995
Sources: Bank Project Brief, SAR, Supervision reports.
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(IN US$ THOUSAND)
Calendar Year         1987      1988      1989      1990    1991      1992    1993       1994      1995
Appraisal Estimate       0.90      1.90     2.90      4.10     5.10     5.18
Actual                   0.00      1.10     1.46      2.56     3.43     3.79    4.48       5.62      6.18
Actual as %  of            0      5 8%      50%       62%      67%      73%
estimate
Date of Final Disbursement:      October 11, 1995
Source: SAR, Annex 11.2; MIS Portfolio Report PFDBR29



14
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Information put in [brackets] signifies that these indicators were not contained in the SAR or in the earlier
monitoring checklists but were added at later stages of supervision. Blanks in column "Estimated" signify
that no estimates were given.
Key implementation Indicators                                     Estimated          Actual
Part A: Reforms
1. Central Reorganization
1.1 Reorganization of MoH
- Construct and renovate additional space in MoH                 from 11/86          10/89
- Relocate key staff to single office complex                                        6-9/90
[- Execution of ODA support package, including provision of TA on                 [9/89-7/92]
health economics and management]
- Development of management system and management training          10/88             1989
- Development and implementation of new organizational structure:
1* ODA report to suggest new organizational structure]
* Cabinet approval of new structure                             [1/90]           [1/91]
[* Implementation of new structure]                                               [8/92]
[- Training of staff of the Health Planning Unit]                                   [11/92]
[- ODA report on new health planning and information                                [10/891
system]                                                        [1/9 1]          11/911
1.2 Hospital Semi-Autonomy
- Legislative Enactment of Hospital Management Board                 4/87             4/88
(HMB) through Passing of Medical Services Act
- Inauguration of the 1-1MB as semi-autonomous                       4/87          4/89 RVH
institution under the MoH                                                    7/91 Bansang
[- Appointment of HMLB members]                                     [7/881           17/89
[- Recruit Chief Executive Officer for RVH]                         [5/898           [1991]
[- Elaborate work plan for decentralization of financial            [5 ]             [1 ]
management; also for RHTs]                                     [11/89]           [7/901
- Devolution of financial, personnel and administrative
responsibility from PS to HMB                                    1988             7/91
- Recruit personnel officer and two finance officers for
hospitals                                                        5/88          Not done.
[- Recruit financial management consultant; to work also
on RHTs. DRF and project finance]
- Hospitals to establish separate accounting systems, keep          [5/88]           [6/891
cost accounts, plan and administer the annual budget                              7/91
and manage allocated manpower
2. Decentralization
- Review roles of members of the Regional Health Teams              2-3/87          1991/92
(RHTs)
- Provision of one finance officer, one finance clerk and one        1988          Not done.
administrative officer to each of the 3 RHTs
[Later on replaced by:
- SCF/UCK to provide two health administrators                      [1990]           11990]
- Appointment of three local health administrators]                                  [1992]
- Transfer of increased budget and personnel authority to            4/87           1991/92
RHTs and health center staff
[- Establish financial and personnel management systems                              [1994]
and elaborate accounting and procedures manual]
[-Train RHT staff in financial and personnel management]                             [1994]
- Assistance to Village Development Committees (VDCs)                              Not done.
to be more active in supervision of Village Health
Workers (VHWs)



15
3. Cost Recovery Program
- Prepare fee schedule                                                                   1/88
- Approval of new fee structure by Cabinet                         Condition for         4/88
Board
presentation
- Launching of CRP, including drug revolving fund                                        8/88
- Appointment of management accountant to establish                    2/87              6/89
accounting system
[- Establishment of regional storage facilities]                      [12/87]           [6/891
- Staff training in drug supply management                             3/88            4-12/88
[- Training of accounting staffi                                       15/881           [7/88]
[- Recruit 8 cashiers and 3 accountants]                              [7/881            [7/88]
- Upgrading of Central Medical Store (CMS)                             11/88           1989-90
[-Procure drugs: first order;                                         [6/881         [12/88-3/89]
second order]                                                                       [8/89]
f-Procure other medical supplies]                                     [11/88]          [1988-901
[- Procure quality control lab]                                       [8/881            11991]
[- Procure packaging equipment]                                       [11/88]           11990]
- Computerize inventory control systems)]                            [10/88]           11988]
1- Appointment of fund management accountant]                          [2/88]           [6/881
[- Evaluation of DRF]                                               [5-89/3-92]      110-89/7-92]
[- In-depth analysis of cost and pricing mechanism]                    [1/90]           [7/90]
[- Economic analysis of fee system and of impact on                 [from 12/89]        [7/90]
utilization and quality of service
[- Introduction of revised fee structure]                             [7/921            [1994]
4 Transport Services
- Provision of 30 new vehicles                                          1/89             1/91
- Rehabilitation of 30 vehicles                                        1989              1990
- Provision of spare parts                                             9/88              3/92
- Provision of fuel                                                  from 7/88         1989-95
- Provision of a tanker truck                                          9/88              1/91
- Appointment of an expatriate transport manager (ODA)                1988-90         1988-1992
- Appointment of a local counterpart to the transport manager          6/88              8/91
[- Appointment of local counterpart to external mechanical             [6/89]           [8/91]
supervisor and engineer]
- Establishment of a transport policv to streamline transport                            1989
management, incl. standardization of vehicle types,
rational allocation and use of transport fleet
- Establishment of a transport management system with                                    1/88
clear procedures for requisitions, stock and inventory
control, and guidelines for preventive maintenance
- Establishment of maintenance workshops at central and                12/86             7/89
at regional levels
- Establishment of regional storage facilities for bulk                12/87             7/89
purchases of fuel
[- Proposal to improve transport management]                          [3/93]            [3/93]
5. Communications Network                                              8/88
- Procurement and installation of 30 small, solar-powered                            6/88 (only 20
VHF transceivers, and of slightly smaller units for the                         units installed)
DMS, the RHTs and the hospitals
- Training of a local service vendor                                                  Not done.
- Preparation of a simple operating handbook                                          Not done.



16
Part B: Investments
6. Expansion of PHC
- Expand PHC services to 53 villages in the Western                               1/89 (coverage of
Region, incl. 11 key villages                                                    80 villages)
- Training of I1 Community Health Nurses (CHNs)                                       1987/89
- Initial and in-senvice training for VHWs and TBAs                                  1/89 - 7/90
- Provision of II CHNs with motorcycles                               9/88              1990
- Provision of VHWs and TBAs with bicycles                            9/88              2/88
- Improve integration of Village Health Services (VHS)                               Mid-1994
with Basic Health Services (BHS) and the referral system
(RHTs to conduct outreach clinics in all key villages)
- Training of selected VDC members in basic principles of                            Not done.
management and simple financial accounting and control
- Expansion of communicable disease program by in-service                             1992-94
training for about 330 nurses, and by provision of drugs
and lab supplies
- Study to prepare PHC for peri-urban areas of Banjul                  1988        first one: 7/90
second: 1993
- Extension of PHC to peri-urban areas of Banjul                      1988           Not done.
7. Improvement of Health Facilities                                   5/90
- Rehabilitation and upgrading of:
* Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH)                                      5/90
- improvement of water, drainage, electricity systems (ODA)                         6/92
[- general rehabilitation of RVH (ODA)]                                             [6/93]
- upgrading of facilities, esp. pediatric ward and lab. (Italy)                     10/89
* Bansang hospital:                                                  5/90
- from old wards: create pediatric and obstetric ward.                              10/89
new outpatient department (Italy)
- remodeling of existing wards, operating rooms, lab,                             Not done.
X-ray
* 5 (7) dispensaries                                                 5/90           Not done.
- Minor upgrading of                                                  5/90
* 7 health centers                                                                  Not done.
*7 dispensaries                                                                 6/95 (only I of 7)
- Construction of:                                                    5/90
* 50 staff houses    (The Gambia)                                                  1990-1994
* New health center for Banjul peri-urban area                                        12/88
* New polyclinic in Banjul  (Italy)                                                   2/89
- Provision of essential services at each of the facilities:          5/90
* refrigeration (solar, Italy. UNICEF)                                                2/89
* emergency lighting (solar; Italy. UNICEF)                                        Mid-1990
* water heating (solar; Italy, UNICEF)                                             Mid-1990
* upgrading of standby power and water supplies where                                 11/94
neccssar,
- Provision of furniture and simple medical and surgical              5/90              6/90
equipment
- renovation of CMS; IDA                                              11/88           1989-90
additional correction work on CMS; IDA]                                              [6/911
extension of SEN school, Bansang (Netherlands)]                                      [6/961



17
8. Strengthen Family Health and Nutrition
- Upgrading of 5[6] Health Centers:                                     5/90
- upgrade and equip as special MCH centers, and
- build maternity waiting homes in:
[Fajikunda    (Italy)]                                                          2/89
Brikama      (Italy)                                                            2/89
Kuntaur       (Italy)                                                           2/89
Essau        (ODA/IDA)                                                          7/90
Basse        (EDF)                                                               1993
Farafenni     (China)                                                            8/89
Only Essau.
Basse, Farafenni
obtained mater-
nity homes (by
mid-1993).
- Overseas in-service training for 5 (6) doctors and 10 (12)                           Replaced
nurse-midwives in MCH risk management. to be
deployed to the special MCH centers
{Component replaced by country training:
- nurse-anesthetist program                                                       [1989-92]
- at-risk pregnancies program]                                                    [1989-92]
- 24 [721 p/m of expatriate doctor/nurse-midwife TA to provide          1990            1989-94
assistance during the first year of the MCH centers
- Provision of 3 small emergency ferries to cross the                   10/88            7/89
river to the nearest health center
9. Nurses' Training                                                                  completed by
11/92
[- Launching of Nurses' Training Program]                                                [5/89]
- Incorporation of PHC into CHN and SEN curricula                      1989/90           1990
- 24 p/m of foreign fellowships for 2 CHN instructors to                                1992/93
strengthen their clinical and teaching skills
- Transfer of SEN training from RVH to Bansang                                           1989
- 5 p/y of overseas fellowships for nursing instructors and                        completed in 7/90
senior nursing staff
- In-senvice training for CHN and SEN in midwifery and nutrition, and   1989            1994/95
12 p/m of TA (physician) to support training
- Recruit counterpart training coordinator for in-service training]                     [6/90]
10. Health Education, Nutrition and FP
- Establishment of a sub-committee on family, health and                6/87       3/87 (with a short
nutrition (SCFHN - under the Project Implementation                               life time)
Committee) to coordinate, review and approve detailed
plans for the three programs
- Appointment of an Executive Secretary for the SCFHN to                            2/90 (resigned in
develop and maintain an inventory of all relevant                                  12/90; no
programs in The Gambia                                                          replacement)
- Integration of various nutrition programs through the                            Draft before 4/89
Development of a Nutrition Action Program (NAP)
- Among other things. NAP to establish guidelines for                                  Not done.
those responsible for macro-economic policies which
heavily influence nutrition conditions (such as price
policies for agriculture and for food) in order for them
to take nutrition/consumption issues into account
- Operational research on nutrition intervention by Nutrition Unit                      1991/92
- Health Education Unit (HEU) to develop rolling 2-year                 1988             5/91
plans for FP, health and nutrition
- HEU to develop and test FP, health and nutrition messages                            Not done.
- In-service training for 10 doctors and 40 nurse-midwives in FP and    1989             12/92
MCH
-Study tour for MoH and GFPA to a successful program in another                        Not done.
country



18
I. Monitoring and Evaluation
- ESU to review and improve the health information system,                    1-6/90
usp. in relation to FP, health and nutrition needs
- ESU to develop a 5-year action plan for its work                            6/89
- Mid-term project evaluation                                  12/89          10/89
Final project evaluation                                      12/92          9/93
12. Project Management
- Establishment of a Project Implementation Committee                     at effectiveness
(PIC)                                                                (short life time)
- Establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU): to                    at effectiveness
be appointed:
- Project Manager                                                         1/88
- Deputy Project Manager                                                  4/88
- Project Accountant                                                      7/88
I Proc,. ment Officcrj                                                    t3/88]
TABLE 6:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
| Key indicators for project operation were neither contained in the SAR or the DCA. nor were they
elaborated during project life.



19
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study              Purpose as defined at          Status            Impact of the study
appraisal/redefined
I. Organization, Staffing  To guide institutional reform   Completed during  Used extensively in reform
and Efficiencv Study    and decentralization.       preparation stage.    work.
2. ODA Report on new    To recommend improved       Completed by 1/91.   Provided platform for
MoH structure           organizational structure to                      elaboration of actual MoH
MoH.                                            structure.
3. First Evaluation of  To assess the functioning of   Completed by 10/89.  Evaluation was used during
Drug Revolving Fund     the DRF.                                         mid-term review to
(DRF)                                                                    undertake course
corrections.
4. Economic Analvsis of  To assess the validitv of the   Completed by 7/90.   No impact.
the DRF                 existing fee structure and the
impact of fees on the
utilization and the quality of
services.
5. Second Evaluation of   To prepare the ground for a   Completed bv 7/92    New fee structure was
the DRF                 newv fee structure.                              introduced in 1994
6. Transport Study      To improve transport        Completed by 3/93    Basis for later studies.
management.
7. Studies on Primary   To give the socio-economic   First study         Basis for later studies.
Health Care (PHC) for    information needed to design  complcted by 7/90.
the peri-urban areas of    PHC for urban areas.     second study by
Banjul                                              1993.
8. Greenwood Report     To analvze the role and     Completed by 5/93.   Major impact on
function of the HMB and to                      management of both
guide the future development                    hospitals, with
of the RVH and the Bansang                      improvements in financial
Hospital.                                       management, resource
mobilization and retaining of
staff.
9. Mid-Term Revicw      To assess progress made in    Completed by 10/89.  Enabled decisions on project
the reforms and investments                     modifications to increase
components of the project.                      effectiveness.
10. WHO Final Project   To assess overall           Completed by 9/93.   Guides preparation of future
Evaluation              perfornance of the project.                      hcalth policv and projects.
Source: SAR. Bank Supervision Reports



TABLE 8A:   PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$,000)                             Of wlhich: IDA Credit
Item                        Local Costs   Foreign Costs    Total        Appraisal Estimate   Appraisal Estimate   Actual
(US$,000)           (SDR.000)          (SDRO000)
1. Civil works              1,948          7,797            9,745        963                 810                 690
2. Equipment and vehicles     543           3,350           3,893        978                  822
3. Drugs and medical supplies   0           2,106           2,106        611 _13                                 597                   |
4. Materials and fuel          27            457              484        484                 407                  321
5. Consultants, opcrations    385           3,749           4,134       2,156               1,812               1,372
6. PPF Refund                  40            360              400        400                  336                265
7. Unallocated/Special                                                                                             13
Account
TOTAL                       2,943          17,819           20,762      5,592               4,700               4,563
The details on the IDA credit rather than the latest estimate for the total costs are givcn, because it was not possible to give an actual cost breakdown for other
donors by expenditure category or by local/foreign costs. The appraisal estimates are from the SAR. p. 21. The actual for the IDA credit is taken from the
Disbursement Information as of 3/17/96. The actual is given in SDR rather than in US$ because the credit is denominated in SDR. Due to constant exclhange
rate fluctuations bctwveen the SDR and the US$ a comparison betwveen the appraisal estimates and the actual in US$ wvould not be possible.



21
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)*        Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)* *
Source                          Local   Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs                Costs     Costs
IDA                               0.4       5.2       5.6                            6.2'
United Kingdom                    0.0       0.9       0.9                             6.4
Netherlands                       0.0       2.0       2.0                             3.5
Italy                             1.9       7.7       9.6                             9.6
UNCDF                             0.0       0.4       0.4                             0.4
China                             0.2       0.8        1.0                            1.0
European Development Fund         0.0       0.0       0.0                             0.5
Government of The Gambia          0.5       0.8       1.3                             5.7
Total                             3.0       17.8      20.8                           33.3
*r     Financing Plan, SAR, p. iii
--*    From Project Unit's Evaluation Report. A breakdown in local and foreign costs is not possible.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Cost-benefit analvses were not undertaken, and a net present value or an economic rate of return were
not calculated.
IDue to the facts that IDA credits are denominated in SDR, and that the SDR was devaluated during the course of
the project, the US$ equivalent of the actual IDA credit disbursements are higher than the appraisal estimate.



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section   Covenant  Present    Original      Revised                       Description of                          Conmnents
Agreement               Type     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                      Covenant
date         date
Article III  3.01 (a)  5         C        Throughout   Throughout   The Borrower declares its commitment to the          Complied with.
Project       Project       objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2, it
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
cfficiency and in conformity with appropriate adm.,
financial, and public health management practices,
and shall provide the funds, facilities, services, and
other resources required.
Article III  3.01 (b)  4         C        Throughout   Throughout   The Borrower shall (i) open and maintain a project    Complied with.
Project       Project       account (the Project Account) to be used to meet
expenditures for the project, (ii) pay into the project
account an initial deposit in the Borrower's currency
equivalent to $20,000. (iii) ensure that there shall be
at the beginning of every quarter amounts equivalent
in Borrower's currency not less than $20,000.
Article III  3.01 (c)   2        C        Through-out  Throughout   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain   Revolving Fund was
Project       Project       in a form and with functions satisfactory to the   maintained throughout
Association the revolving fund described in Part A  the project. Recovery
(3) (iii) of the Project. Further provisions relating to  level was lower than
the Revolving Fund arc set out in Part D of Schedule  expccted.
5 to this Agreement.
Article III  3.02     10         C        Through-out  Throughout   Except as the Association shall othenvise agree,     Complied with.
Project       Project       procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be goverled by
the provisions of Schedule 3 of the Agreement.
Article III,  3.03    9          C        (i) Dec.,     (i) Oct. 23-   The Borrower and IDA shall, (i) no later than     (i) Mid-term review was
1989         Nov. 3.        December 31, 1989, carrv out and fumish to the     held Oct. 23 - Nov. 3,
1                   ~~~~~~~1993.
(i.) Dec.,    1989          Association for review and comment, the result of the
Iil) Dec.,  ..   mid-term evaluation of the Project; and (ii) no later    (ii) The final evaluation
1992        (0)            than December 31, 1992. carry out and fumish to the  was conducted by WHO
September    Association for its review and comments the result of  in Sept. 1993. (Closing
1993         the final evaluation of the project.                of project extended to
June, 1995.)



Section   Coxvenant  Present    Original        Revised                        Description of                            Comments
Agreemcnt                TNpe      Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillncnt                        Coxenant
date          date
Article III   3.04 (a)   9         C        Annually       Annually       The Borrower shall, no later than May I ever- vear    Complied with.
through 1992 prepare and furnish to, and thereafter
review with, the Association: (i) plans satisfactory to
the Association for investment and recurrent
expenditures in the health sector (including family
planning and nutrition expenditures) for the three
fiscal years immediately following; and (ii) the
Borrower's annual development and recurrent
budgets for the health sector for the fiscal year
immediately following. The said plans shall be
consistent with the Borrower's economic recovery
programs and shall be used by the Borrower as a
framework in seeking financing from other donors for
the health sector.
Article III   3.04 (b)   2         C                                      The Borrower undertakes in seeking financing for the   Complied with.
health scctor to do so on the basis of the hcalth sector
expenditures set out in the plans required under
paragraph (a) of this section.
Article III   3.05 (a)   5         CP       Throughout   Established:   Thc Borrower shall establish, and thereafter            PIC was established at
Project        11/02/87      maintain, in a form and with functions satisfactory to  effectiveness. It
the Association a Project Implementation Committee   continued sporadically in
(PIC) which shall have responsibility for overseeing    the beginning of the
the carrying out of the Project. Further provisions  project, then terminated.
relating to PIC are set out in par A of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Article III   3.05 (b)   5         C        Throughout   Throughout   The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter              Complied with.
Project       Project        maintain, in a form and with functions satisfactory to
the Association a Project Management Unit (PMU)
which shall have responsibility for coordinating the
day-to-day Project execution activities of line units
of MoH. Further provisions relating to PMU are set
out in part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.



Section   Covenant  Present    Original      Revised                      Description of                         Comrnents
Agreement               Type     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                     Covenant
date         date
Article III  3.05 (c)   5        CP      Throughout   Established:   The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter       SCFHN established at
Project       11/02/87     maintain, in a form and with functions satisfactory to  effectiveness. Since the
the Association, a Sub-Committee of the Project   departure of secretary of
Implementation Committee referred to in Part B (4)   the committee, SCFHN
of the Project. Further provisions relating to SCFHN   became dormant and
are set out in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  terminated.
Article III  3.06     1         C                                    The Borrower undertakes that its recurrent budget  Relative budget
expenditures on health, as a pcrcentage of the    expenditure on health
Borrowcr's total recurrent budget expenditures    even increased:
(exclusive of debt service), shall bc maintained at not  1986/87  7.3%
less than the 1985/86 recurrent budget expenditure  1987/88     8.3%
levels.                                           1988/89       9.1%
1989/90      9.8%
1990/91     14.1%
1991/92     10.1%
1992/93     11.9%
1993/94     12.3%
1994/95     11.1%
Articlc IV   4.(01 (a)   I      C        Throughout   Throughout   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be           Complied with.
Project       Project      maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources & expenditures in respect of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the project or any part
thereof



Section   Covenant  Present    Original     Revised                       Description of                         Comments
Agreement              Typc     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment                     Covenant
date        datc
Article IV   4.01    1          CP       12/31/87     04/19/89      The Borrower shall: (i) have the Revolving Fund, the   The first three audit
(b)                                                     Special Account and the accounts referred to in para   report were received 16,
12/31/88     08/07/89     (a) above audited for each fiscal year in accordance    8 and 12 months late,
12/31/89     12/28/90      with appropriate auditing principles consistently  respectively
applied, bv independent auditors acceptable to the
12/31/90     10/19/90      Association; (ii) furnish to IDA, as soon as available.
12/3 1/91    01/14/92      but not later than 6 months after the end of such year,
a certified copy of the audit report; (iii) furnish to the
12/31/92     11/30/92      Association such other information concerning the
12/31/93     03/25/94      Revolving Fund, the Special Account and the said
accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the
12/31/94     05/01/95      Association may reasonablv request.
12/31/95     01/30/96
Article IV   4.01    1          C        Throughout  Throughout   For all expenditures wvith respect to which         Complied wvith
(c)                          Project      Project       withdrawals from the Credit Account was made on
the basis of SOEs, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain
separate records of accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after
completion of the audit for the FY in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
records evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the
Association's representatives to examine such
records; (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in para (b) of
this section and that the report thereof contains, in
respect of such separate accounts, separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn in respect of such expenditures
were used for the purposes for which they were
provided.



Source: Development Credit Agreement, MIS Covenant Compliance Report. Supervision reports for dates of fulfillment
Covenant types:                                       8.   Indigenous people
I .= Accounts/audits                                 9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. = Financial performance/rcvenue generation from    10. =  Project implementation not covered bv
beneficiaries                                            categories 1-9
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds            11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetarn or
4. = Counterpart funding                                    other resource allocation
5.= Management aspects of the project                 12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policN/
or executing agency                                    regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmcntal covenant                          13.   Other
7.  Involuntary rcsettlcment
8. Present Status
C          covenant complied with
CD         complied with aftcr delav
CP         complied with partiallv
NC   =     not complied with



27
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
BORROWER COMPLIED WITH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL S FA tlEMENTS.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle         Planned*              Revised*                 Actual
Weeks       US$       Weeks      US$         Weeks         US$
To Appraisal                                                               65.20      52.700
Appraisal to Board Ap-                                                     45.30      77.500
proval
Board Approval to Effec-                                                    6.00      16.660
tiveness
Supervision                                                                85.30     183,800
Completion                                                                 13.00      14,900
Grand Total                                                              214.80    345,560
Source: Cost Accounting Menu (COSR5 1: lending and supervision)
* Planned and revised work programs were not computerized until 1994. Therefore. even those
recorded since 1994 for supervision could not providc a comprehensive estimatc and arc not
included in this ICR.



TABLE 13:   BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                                               r
STAGE OF PROJFCT         MONTH/         NO. OF       DAYS IN       SPECIALIZED STAFF        PERFORMANCE RATING              TYPES OF PROBLEMS
CYCLE               YEAR         PERSONS         FELD              SKILLS
YEAR             FIELD         ~~~REPRESENTED                      _____
IMPLEMENT       DEVELOP.
STATUS         IMPACT
TO APPRAISAL               09/84         3             5             HPE,ECN,IEC            N/A            N/A             N/A
12/84        4             4             IIPE,ECN, FNA
05/85        5             10            HPE,ECN,PPN,
07/85        4              14           FNA,EC
HPE,NTR,FNA, EGR
APPRAISAL                  01/86         6             I             HPE,PRO,MSP,           N/A            N/A              COF (ADB, Italian, Dutch, and
THROUGH                                                              FNA,fEC,EGR                                            UK ODA)
BpO VAL                    01/87         2             5PE
BOARD APPROVAL -           0             0             0
EFFECTIVFNESS
SUPERVISIONS               12/87         1             6             PPN                    I               1
03/88        2             11            PPN,PRO                 I              1
06/88        0              14.5         PPN,PRO                 I              I
02/89        1             4             PPN                    2               1               PMP
11/89        2             22            PPN,ARC                2               1               PMP, PP,TP,TA,SP
06/90        2             7             PPN,HPE,INV            2               2               PMP, PP, SP
11/90        3             9             PPN,HPE,INV, ARC       2               2               PMP, PP, SP, CLC
12/91        4             18.5          PPN, HPEs, SOC         2               2               PMP+, PP, SP+, CLC, AF, TA+
06/92        5              10           PPN.IIPE, SOC, HPE     2               2               PMP, PP, SP+, CLC, TA+
11/92        1             1             PPN                    2               2               PMP, PP, SP+, CLC, TA+
07/93        1              11.5          PPN                    I              I               PMP, PP, SP+, CLC, TA+
11/93        4             20            PPN, I IPE, FNA, PRO    I              I               PP, AF, TA
03/94        3             2.5            PPN.NCGO,SOC           I              I               PP, AF
04/95        1                           NIR                     1              1
COMPLETION                 03/96         1             3              liPE
Specializations: ARC = Architect, ECN=Economist, EGR=Engineer: FNA=Financial Analyst; HPE= Health and Medical, IEC= Info/Educ/Commun; INV=lnvestments; MSP=Management;
NGO=NGO Specialist; NTR= Nutrition. PPN=Populationl/Demography PRO=Procurement; SOC=Sociology.
Performance Ratings: I=Problem Free: 2= Moderate Problcms; 3= Major Problems; 4= Major Problems
Key to problems: Al =Availability of funds              FP = Financial perfonnance              PP = Procurement progress
CLC = Compliance with legal covenants   PMP = Project management performance    SP = Studies progress
TA = Tcchnical Assistance               TP = Training Progress          + = particularly problematic



THE GAMBIA
Aide Memoire
World Bank Project Mission: Health, Population and Nutrition
March 4-16, 1996
Introduction
1. A World Bank mission comprised of Richard Seifman, Task Manager (AF5PH),
Debrework Zewdie, Reproductive Health Specialist (HDD), Lynnda Kiess, Nutrition
Specialist, (HDD) and Yaya Sanyang, Project Manager for the National Health
Development Project (NHDP) visited The Gambia from March 4-16 to carry out the
following objectives: a) to prepare the Implementation Completion Report of the NHDP
(Credit GM- 1760), b) to address any outstanding audit issues under this project, and c) to
discuss a new World Bank Health Participatory, Population and Nutrition project.
Mission Work Program
2 The mission met with the Mfinistry of Health, Social Welfare, and Women's Affairs,
Nirs. Nvimasata Sanneh-Bojang, Senior Ministry of Health officials, and officials from
other Ministries, including the Ministrv of Finance, the Ministry of Local Government, the
National Population Secretariat, United Nations agencies, bilateral and multilateral
donors, non-governmental organizations and the Medical Research Council. The mission
visited several health centers, dispensaries, hospitals and community health workers during
a field visit. Cooperation was excellent throughout the visit, and the mnission greatly
appreciates the time and assistance given to the team during the visit.
Main Areas of Discussion and Agreed LNext Steps
3. The draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the NIIDP project was
completd.7The Ministry of Finance agreed to a procedure for repavment of overclaims to
the Bank, in light of the final audit report for NHDP. In addition, the Government intends
to request an extension of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF 823-GM), which ends in
June 1996.
4. At the time of the Bank's visit the Government was revising the National Health Policy
and developing National Health Action Plans. Simultaneously, African Development
Bank consultants were in The Gambia to finalize a health sector requirements study, with
their final report expected by June, 1996. In addition, UNDP is facilitating Government
efforts to prepare for a Social Sector Roundtable tentatively scheduled for the second half
of 1996. The Government has established a National Consultative Committee to prepare
for this Social Sector Roundtable. During its meeting on March 14, 1996, this Committee
decided to revise the existing National Health Policy (1995-2001), develop a National



J
Health Plan to support the Health Policy, and Health Action Plans, and to review and
revise the National Population Policy, for the Roundtable discussions.
5. Given this situation and the mission's discussions with the Government, it was agreed
to wait until the Government's prorities were further clarified to design specific
interventions for a new Bank supported Participatory Population, Health, and Nutrition
Project. The Bank and the Goverrnent, would however, actively engage in a project
preparatory process that would: a) build on the strengths and lessons learned during the
National Health Development Project, b) concentrate principally on primary health
care/family health, family planning and related critical support services up to the Divisional
level; and c) be responsive to evolving Gambian national health policies and plans.
6. Funds from a Japanese Grant are available for project preparation. Based on the
process described above, it was agreed that the Government would identify proposals to
use these funds. (Funds will be provided for initiatives which already have commenced
and are time-sensitive, i.e. the Local Initiative Fund.) Furtherrnore, a rough timetable for
reaching agreement and beginning Grant-funded activities was agreed to, namely, that the
Government would subrmit proposals to the Bank that will lead to project preparation by
early April 1, 1996. A draft Grant Agreement including the Technical Description
Schedule, would be negotiated and costed, and Terms of Reference prepared during May-
June, with funds then available by July 1996. Taking into account the process of intensive
appraisal and negotiations, this would allow for the possibility of an IDA Credit in mid-
1997.
7. The mission was assured of the Government's concurrence with the approach and its
full cooperation.



NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 1760 GM
(1987 to 1995)
END OF PROJECT REPORT
PROJECT MANAGER
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, BANJUL, THE GAMBIA
AUGUST 1995



NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
END OF PROJECT REPORT
1. PREAMBLE
The National Health Development Project (NHDP) was conceived during the preparation and
implementation of The Gambia's Structural Adjustmnent Programme (SAP) in the earlv 1 990s. This period
also coincided With the end of the implementation of the Primary Health Care (PHC) Action Plan. The
major underpinnings influencing the design of the project and strategies developed have their basis in these
seemingly two conflicting ideologies. The sectoral reform of the health administrative system and the
implementation of a user charges could both be considered as paroxvsms of the SAP. In addition the
strengthening of the health infrastructure and enhancing the effectiveness of the Major Health Centres and
the Village Health services are necessarv outcomes of the PHC development.
The Gambia in the earlv 1 980s had all the attributes of a least developed sub-Saharan African country with
limited natural and human resources. rapid population expansion, poor health indicators. high level of
morbidity and mortality from preventable causes and dwindling government resources; less and less of
which is actuallv filtering to the people most in need. The system was exacerbated by poor performance of
the economy. Rapid population growth negated any modest growth in the economy. These were coupled
with dwindling foreign exchange reserves. balance of payment difficulties and an overblown and
inefficiency public sector. The effect of these has been severe shortages of drugs and other medical
supplies, louw staff moral and deteriorating physical environment at the point of service delivery.
In 1985 the Gambia evaluated its PHC programme. This confirmed that the basic attributes of the
programme are sound. The VHS has improved access to services for the majority of rural inhabitants, the
TBA and VHW are effective in delivenr basic care at the communitv level and more important the
communities themselves have began to take active roles in health promotional activities.
A major constraint is the weak supervision mechanism and inadequate referral/evacuation system. In
addition the health svstem wvas laden wvith a centralised management and administrative structure which
relegates less priority to planning and budgeting. The health services were plagued by three major
constraints:
*   Inadequate resources to finance the extended PHC svstem particular the non salary recurrent cost.
*   The burden of over centralized administrative and management system leading to inefficiencies,
stifling of initiative and lack of priority identification.
*   Inadequate human resources and lack of specific skills.
The NHDP was envisaged and launched with this background.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The NHDP was designed as a health sector management project geared towards improving access and
quality of basic health care for a Gambians. This is to be accomplished through a combination of
administrative and management reforms and a program of investment to improve infrastructure and
enhance programme development.
The project had the following specific objectives as outlined in the staff appraisal report:



2
a) A programme of reforms to strengthen health sector management, financing and support systems
through decentralisation, reorganisation, mobilisation of financial resources and strengthening of
logistic support.
b) Extension of the PHC programme to achieve geographic coverage
c) Strengthening and expansion of the communicable disease control programme
nation-wIde
d) Improve health infrastructure at all levels
e) Improve the quality and training of nurses with specific orientation towards PHC.
f) Enhance family health and nutrition services.
These are to reinforce the government's overall PHC strategy with the aim of making basic health care
accessible to all Gambian. a number of the strategies were targeted to specifically reduce maternal and
infant mortality.
2.1 IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
The project was implemented under the overall direction of a multisectoral Project Implementation
Committee (PIC) chaired by the Permanent Secretary of Health who also acted as Project Coordinator.
The day to day execution of project activities was vested in the Project Management Unit (PMU) consisting
of a Project Manager. Deputy Project Manager, and an Accountant. In addition, a sub-committee w as
established to coordinate project activities concerning Family Health and Nutrition (SCFHN).
The PMU had its locus within the Ministrv of Health. Different components of the projects were
implemented as discrete constituents according to sources of funding. The project will be reviewed
according to those constituents for the rest of this report.
a)  Administrative and central management reform
b)  Hospital autonomy
c)  Establishment of a cost recovery programme
d)  Nurse Training Programme (NTP)
e)  Health Infrastructure development
f)  strengthening PHC services
g) Overall project co-ordination.
At the end of implementation, the NHDP had received the following financial contributions:



3
DONOR                COMPONENT                           CONTRIBUTION
AMOUNT               GMD EQUIV.
IDA         PMICONSUL/DRF                       USD 5.1 million      D 48.45 m
CONSTR/TRG/VEH.
British ODA          HMSP                         GBP 0.3 million      D 4.62 m
Essua MHC                                        D 4.5  m
RVH Rehab                   GBP 3.335 m          d 51.35 m
DutchGovt.           NTP                         USD 1.5 m             D 14.25 m
CRP                         USD 1.0 M            D 9.5 m
SEN school                                     - I10.0 m
Italian Govt.        Three MHCs. Lab             USD 9.1 M             d 86.45 M
Paed. Unit Rehab.
Polycliric, Mater. Ward
and OPD Bansang
CRP                         USD 0.5 m            D 4.75 m
EDF under URDIP      Basse NMHC                                        D15.0 m
The Project originally expected to be completed in June 1992 was finally closed in June 1995 after three
extensions. An end of project evaluation was independentl conducted by WHO in September 1993. This
evaluation conducted an overall assessment of the impact of the NHDP as gauged bv the objectives set out
in the Staff Appraisal report. In addition specific intervention strategies were assessed in terms of the
design, appropnateness and impact on health status of Gambians. The end of project evaluation wvas to
assist government to make a valid judgment on the impact of the investment programme implemented
during the project with a view to forming a basis for the formulation of a successor programme of
investment.
The evaluation indicated that the overall objectives of the project were to a large extent realized albeit at a
slower irnplementation rate than planned. A major shortcoming was the relative lack of effective
integration of the different components of the project. The evaluation assessed the project achievements as
compared with the objectives set out in the appraisal. This report will focus on reviewing the
implementation strategy and lessons learnt wvith a view to assisting government and donors in the design of
a successor health/population/nutrition project.
3. PROJECT CO-ORDINATION
3.1 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE
The Project Implementation Committee had the responsibility of overseeing the execution of the project. It
was chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministrv of Health (also project coordinator) and draws its
membership from the government ministries responsible for Finance, Planning, Office of the President and
Rural development. The Director of Health Senrices, the Project Manager and representative of the
Gambia Family Planning Association were also members. The membership was later increased to include



4
representatives of the WHO office, Banjul and the Medical Research Council (MRC). The PIC was to
meet regularly at least twice a month during the initial phase of the project.
The composition of PIC is more a reflection of the desire to implement a multi-sectoral comprehensive
health package. It w as designed to involve the key development players in giving guidance and direction
during project implementation. Through the PIC significant consideration would be given to health in the
setting of national priorities and development strategies.
The PIC did not live up to expectations. It met less often after the first year with poor attendance. As the
PW and the MOH took more decisions without prior consultation of the PIC. the critical function of the
body became defunct.
A number of reasons could be advanced for lack of effective performance of the PIC. Whereas project
design requires intensive multi-sectoral consultation as a prerequisite for a sound and coherent project. day
to day management and implementation calls for precise and firm action often requiring time-limited
decision making which is unsuitable as a function for a committee. The PMU and MOI-Ewef ultimatelv
accountable for the action and resources, not the PIC. The effectiveness of the PIC in setting
implementation guidelines and monitoring guidelines was also limited by the lack of crucial information to
members w"hich the PMU never shared. The infrequent PIC meetings became more confrontational,
concerned less with monitornng the project than probing the PMU.
TIhe lack of optimal performance of the PIC did deprive the project of a critical tool, but by centralising
decision-making within the PMU and MOH particularly in the last four years of the project Government
wuas able to implement major sectoral reforms policies. It is doubtful that the PIC would have helped
facilitate the reorganisation of the MOH and the setting up of Hospital Management Boards.
3.2 PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
The PMU was established within the MOH. The first set of staff were appointed more for the positions
they held prior to the project. The Director of Health Services retired to become the Project Manager and
the Principal Health Planner retained his job but also functioned as Deputy Project Manager. The
attributes for complacency and conflict were already in place.
The functions of the PMU were never clearly defined particularly in relationship the Director of Health
Services (DHS). The DHS is not only the chief governmental adviser of all health matters but the day to
day management of the services is within his purview. Yet his only role in the day to day implementation
of the project is as a member of the PIC. The NHDP is by de-factor an health project in toto with the
objective of making major sectoral reforms. Unlike WID. the role of the DHS in the implementation of the
NHDP is kev if not the most important. Once the PIC became default, the only medium of consultations
and influence on project direction has been through the office of the PS. The continues difficulty of the
PMU in dealing with the DHS can be viewed from this perspective. Project Components like the Nurse
Training Program (NTP) which were implemented jointly with the DHS (as co-signatory to the accounts)
proceeded at a faster rate than the Health Management Strengthening Project (HMSP) implemented directly
within the auspices of the PMU and PS.
The project had three Project Managers, four Project Coordinators (PS), three DHS, four Ministers of
Health, and three IDA task managers during its lifetime. As of June 1990 there was no Deputy Project
Manager. The most stable period was the last five vears when management stabilised with the same PM,
PS, DHS and IDA Task Manager. This was the period when most administrative reforms were
implemented. Despite the constraints of functional roles and staff changes the PMU was able to execute
the different components of the project successfullv, albeit wvith delay. A lost opportunity is that the



5
experience of the PMU should have inherently strengthened the donor coordination and planning skills of
the MOH.
3.3 SUB-COMMITTEE ON FAMILY HEALTH AND NUTRITION
This component got slightlv sidelined during appraisal and almost totally relegated during implementation.
Not withstanding, significant policy changes have been made in the area of famnily health and nutrition
albeit not under the auspices of the NHDP. Prior to NHDP Family Planning (FP) services in the country
were offered from government health facilities, Gambia Family Planning Association (GFPA) run clinics
and a host of other NHDP also operate limited FP services. Each of these operated separately and
independently from each other. The overlapping of progranmme areas, non complementary strategies and
competition for scarce resources between the agencies resources were further exacerbated by the lack of
any mandated government focal point for policy direction of FP. Any FP policy that existed was ill defined
under the Five year Development Plan of 1975/76 to 1979/80. Rather aim for policy formulation and
sectoral reform to reflect the importance of Family Health in national development, the appraisal stopped
short by emphasising co-ordination and information sharing.
The development of the Nutrition services mirrors what transpired under PP. Four government agencies
established nutrition units (Health. Agriculture, Community Development and Economic Planning) and a
number of international and local NGOs became involved with food supplements. nutritional education,
research, agricultural production, or food preservation and storage. The objective under the project was to
institutionalize a system of information sharing and programme co-ordination.
As defined under the credit agreement the SCFHN is to draw membership from all the major agencies
involved in Familv Health and nutrition activities in the countrv. The Deputy Permanent Secretary was
originally assigned the functions of Executive Secretary. This was discontinued after a year. A full time
Executive Secretarv was appointed in February 1990. He resigned from the post wvithin 10 months and
was never replaced. Records indicate that the SCFHN met for a total of less than 10 sittings.
4. ADMINISTRATIVE AND CENTRAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
This component of the project was financed by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the
Bn'tish Government which sub-contracted to the Nuffield Institute for Health Services Studies under the
Leeds University (NI). This component of the project started late. A project proposal was presented to the
Gambia Government and the ODA in September 1988, but only a year later was a management adviser
seconded to the Ministnr of Health by the Nuffield Institute.
The Health Management Strengthening Project (HMSP), financed by the ODA and implemented through
the NI was to focus on three main areas of sector reform:
*   Central level administrative structure for the MOH
*   Strengthening the Health Information SYstem
*   Developing a comprehensive health planning system.
The HMSP was designed to have a management consultant/adviser to be based in the MOH for a
prolonged period (12-18 months) to provide guidance and support to the process of administrative reform.
The Management adviser, envisaged to be senior and with fair experience in health system management is
to be supported by regular short-terrn (<4 weeks) Consultancies from the NI. These would be further
reinforced through training of planners and epidemiologists (non clinical) at NI. An ODA TA was already
in place at the ESU. This would be supported and enhanced with short term consultancies and training.



6
The MA was in place in October 1989. The first short-term consultant arrived in November 1989 to
recommnend an Organisational Structure for the MOH. This was followed by 16 short-term consultancies
on planning, decentralisation, health information and development of operational policies for transport.
personnel and supplies services. A total of 10 training fellowships were awarded for planning, information
technology and health information. A number of senior officers also visited NI for exchange programmes.
The HMSP was effective for just over two yvears. The management adviser was withdrawn in December
1991 not to be replaced.
The HMSP tended to be judged by the high expectations generated by the IDA staff appraisal report and
consequent ODA/NI consultancy reports Adequate recognition was not given to the need for consensus-
building in the design of a reorganized structure. The implementation of the planning and budgetary
system, decentralisation. and support for DHTs and the development of operational policies for the support
services all depended on progress on the implementation of the organisational structure (OS).
4.1 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
The verdict on the OS is still far from conclusive. Tremendous progress has been made in realigning the
administrative/management structure of the MOH. The three directorates envisaged under the report have
now been set up and reflected in the government budget. The symbolic transfer of the DHS to the Ministrv
premises has been effected since 1991. The mailing and filing system have been fully integrated. The
directors and the PS form a core management team responsible for all policy decisions. A number of gray
areas continue to create concem. This include the responsibility for donor co-ordination, the locus of
ESU/Health Infornation and the merging of the NHDP/PMU and the DPI. The role of the DSS. hereto the
DPS. is still less define and seem to change depending on the post holder. Four DPS have been posted to
the post in four years. Thc DHS still continues to manifest the seeming conflicting roles of chief adviser to
the MOH (members of both HMBs) and implementation of the health services.
It was a weakness in the design of the project to have left an inherently contentious issue as central as
MOH reorganisation to separate bilateral agreement negotiations. This component of the sector reform had
been identified as one of the major impediments to efficient use of health resources and effective delivery of
services. An issue for such importance should have been a conditionality of credit effectiveness at best or
funded under parallel financing arrangement to ensure effective use of IDA leverage in influencing speedy
governnent decision making. The scars from the controversy surrounding the OS are still apparent. The
central planning committee, a key requirement of the OS now meet at most twice a year. The sensitization
of the MOH staff on the OS and lines of responsibility now seem irrelevant.
4.2 SUPPORT FOR DPI
The support for the Directorate of Planning and Information was concluded prior to the establishment of
the DPI in July 1992. Four Health Planners were trained at the Masters level and all but one are still
within the DPL a Planning Cycle relying on the DHT to develop their own operation yearly plans is still
effective. The DPI has vet to evolve into a focal point for donor co-ordination. This is more a reflection of
the separation of the NHDP/PMU. the strong influent of the DHS and the need to bolster the image of the
DPL.
4.2 SUPPORT FOR ESU
The support for ESU was largely a continuation of existing ODA support for the health information
system. Since 1986 an ODA TA statistician was based at the ESU to strengthen the collation and analysis
of data from health returns and special surveys. A couple of desk-top computers were provided and local
training provided for the data entry clerks The HMSP gave initial support through the revision of the



7
health information system (reporting system from health facilities), developing potential for operational
research at the field level and training.
NI, in collaboration with the ODA TA, assisted government in designing the reporting format for a levels of
the service. Data collected was based on relevance at the point of collection. Staff at the facility level were
trained in the use of the new forms and basic analvsis to enable them to extract relevant information for
their owvn use. Feedback mechanisms and cross checking of data also improved the level of reporting.
A major deficiency of this sub-component was the restriction of health information and morbidity data to
ESU. Six out of the eight staff who benefited from long term overseas training left the services w ithout
ever reporting for work. This desperate staff situation, the departure of the ODA TA in 1991, and the
completion of the HMSP in 1992 made sustaining any gains difficult.
5. HOSPITAL AUTONOMY
The Medical Services Act establishing the legal framework for the operational separatiorTof te he
hospitals from the rest of the health services was passed into law by mid 1988. At first a single
Management Board was responsible for both Hospitals but in 1992 separate board were appointed by the
Minister one each for RVH and Bansang. The operations of the Medical Services Act, the roles and
functions of the ENS inter-alliance the relationship with the MOH have been the subject of nvo major
reviews. The- Greenwood report looked at the future development of the RVH and Bansang Hospitals and
the WHO end of project evaluation of the NHDP devoted a substantial portion to the
HMB.
The HMBs currently have a significant level of operational autonomy in terms of budgeting and financial
management, personnel administration and day to day management of services.
These administrative and financial autonomy has allowed the HMB to develop the level of services offered
and response to the changes needs of these institution, Clinical staff have been offered remuneration
packages to reduce attrition and were necessary expatriate staff have been contracted from the sub-region
to urgement staffing levels. Both hospitals have now appointed nationals as executive managers.
Whereas the autonomy of the HMB accrued significant advantages for both institutions, a number of
concerns have persisted. The meaning and degree of autonomy to be granted to the HMB is still less
clearly defined. The National Health Policy defined the government stance towards hospitals but it may be
necessary to take this a step further and define a hospital development programnme. This would not only
clarify the roles of the HMBs in the development PHC but also define the relationship between the HMBs
and other government agencies including the MOH.
The hospital share of the health budget has declined from 47% in 1982/83 to just under 35% in 1986/87.
This proportion has now risen to 45% in 1993/94. As the HMBs increase their efficiency in utilising
allocated resources and boost their lobbying power for additional extra-budgetary health resources, this
trend could continue to grow.
In the establishment of the HMBs the magnitude of changes envisaged at the beginning was more than the
system was capable of absorbing. The development of account and administrative systems, personnel
management, procurement and supplv management all had to be established and tested over a period of
time. The provision of TA by the project at the level of Chief Executive for a period of four y ears mav
have provided the necessary leadership necessary for the implementation of these changes but delaved the
process of allowing the HMB to tackle these issues in their own way earlier on.



8
6. COST RECOVERY PROGRAM
The conceptual frame work for the system of cost recovery in the health sector was less clearly defined
prior to the implementation of the user charges. This was further complicated bv inadequate preparation in
ensuring that all the essential administrative attributes were in place pnror to the launching of the
programme.
The expected level of cost to be recovered was never ascertained. The government never accepted a basic
concept of CRP that payment at the point of use should be the main determinant to access in the health
services. The CRP was therefore laden with exemptions and other strategies to minimise the effect on
charges on utilisation's. Members of the armned forces were exempt from payment. Anti-natal attendants
(over 50% of all attendants) pay a one shot fee of Dl0 for five vears of service. Average anti-natal visits
for the first vear of life is five visits. Children 5-8 vears are exempt from fees and children 9-14 vears pay
one dalasi per visit. Chronic illness patients pay an annual registration fee of D30 for a year of treatment.
The charges were pledged at a flat fee rate D5.00 per visit.
A WHO-financed drug needs assessment in 1986 was handicapped by lack of adequate health utilisation
data. The CIPHA consultant who designed the operational procedures for the CRP were not in place at the
commence of the implementation of the programme. Contrarn to e-xpectations, government did not second
all the required administrative and financial staff required for the full umplementation of the CRP. These
were further compounded by the lack for training of health staff and an almost negligible public
sensitisation campaign.
The CRP has had two major reviews of its performance since its inception in 1988. In 1993. within the
auspices of the Bamako Initiative, the charges for non-hospital senrices were revised.
The percentage recovery for the cost of drugs and medical supplies for the first three years of the life of the
CRP averaged 35%. All indications are that this trend has been maintained, particularly with the new fee
structures introduced in August 1994.
The CRP has instituted within the national health service the notion of paying for a service that had been
free. It has continued to contribute significantly to the cost of drugs and medical supplies. Whereas its
financial performance has been below the high expectations envisaged at the launch of the program, the
concurrent negative impact of the introduction of the CRP was also less than expected. Despite evidence of
indigent patients being exempt from fees by prescribers. there was a notable drop in OPD attendance
during the first two vears (1988/89) of the CRP. By 1990 the level of total ODP attendance was still 20%
below that of 1987, the vear preceding the introduction of the CRP. There is evidence that the reduction in
the utilisation of health services wvas more severe in rural areas.
Taken as a whole the implementation of the CRP was a qualified success. The Drug Revolving Fund had
stayed viable and functional for seven vears. The population has by default accepted paying for services
and there have been no major shortages of drugs and supplies since 1988. The fall in utilization though
significant it has not been drastic and should improve with sustained improvement in quality of services
(availability of drugs, better infrastructure and transport services).
Nonethesless, the CRP is beset with operational and management constraints. Even with the revised
charges introduced in 1994, there is a direct link betveen resources used and fees paid. This makes the
monitoring of the financial performance of the CR1P difficult. The-two most important assets of the CRP--
stock of drugs and other supplies and cash collected--continue to be managed as separate entities. For
operational efficiency and necessary financial control there is need to streamline the management of the
Central Medical Stores and the CRP.



9
A number of lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the CRP. It is essential to clearly put into
focus the conceptual framework for the implementation of the CRP. The levels of recovery, the exemptions
to be imposed and the effect of these exemptions should be policy decision entered into by government prior
to commencement of the CRP. A number of the exemptions are political decisions rather than based on any
empirical evidence. Given altemative options than flat rate user charges and financial impact of each of the
exemption. government could consider alternative policies.
To expect government to deploy a sizable amount of administrative and accounting staff to manage the
CRP amidst staffing constraints was unrealistic.
7. NURSE TRAINING PROGRAM
The Gambia health manpower had a number of outstanding features. The demand for the extended PHC
was compelling a orientation towards PHC, creating demand for additional trained staff..Thjjwas at a
time when the attrition rate for senior staff particularly of SRN/SCM was at an all time high and
increasing. This is compounded by the fact that over 60% of trained health personnel were based in the
two hospitals. Two main strategies were adopted which were to imbue components of the NDP.
A situational analysis of the status of the health manpower was carried out in 1987. This clarified the
quality, variety and locus of the trained health personnel. The reports ambition of predicting the future
demand for such trained staff was less satisfactory. In addition an assessment of nurse training in the
Gaambia was conducted w]ith a view to streamlining the training and deployment of nursing staff in the
health services. This report recommended the restructuring of the curriculum of all nurse training schools
(SRN/SCM, SENT and CHN) and the merging of SEN and CHN into a graduate school for health service
workers.
In the event that what was appraised under NHDP and implemented was a watered down version of a
comprehensive health manpower training programme, the project centered on improving the skill of the
graduates from the twvo schools for SEN and CHN as separate entities.
The Gambia draws its non-clinical health manpower from four training schools. The school for the training
of State Registered Nurses/State Certified Midwives and the school for Public Health Superintendent are
amalgamated with the Gambia College within the auspices of the Ministry of Education.
Within the Ministrv of Health there are two health schools--State Enrolled Nurses and Communitv Health
Nurses. Prior to the NHDP, two-year SEN graduates were expected to provide competent bedside nursing,
relieving the acute shortage of the more senior SRNs. The SRN contingent not only provides most of the
managers of the PHC system but also tutors of all four training schools. In time and with the development
of PHC, the SEN were slowly absorbed into management roles in health centres and dispensaries becoming
involved in the supervision of PHC and community health services. A major focus of the NTP was to
reorient the training to reflect the emphasis on PHC.
The CHN started in 1976 as community health motivators. With the advent of PHC their role changed into
supervision of VHW and TBA at the community level. Because of the shortage of trained staff, a
significant number of CHN were deployed at health centres to support MCH clinics. These two new roles
were never reflected in their curriculum or training.
The NTP had a more focused role in strengthening the two trainring schools for SEN and CHN with a view
to support their enhanced roles in the development of PHC. The project implemented a separate entity
within the NHDP PMU. An expatriate public health physician was in charge of day-to-day management



10
with the DHS and PM, NHDP as co-signatonres to the accounts. This arrangement ensured complementary
activities with other project components and also provided the backup support of the PMU in carrying out
policy decisions.
A total of 12 tutors were trained for both Schools. Expatriate tutors were provided while the Gambians
wvere on training. The physical locus of the SEN school was moved from Banjul to Bansang. The
curriculum of both schools was revised and updated. A revolving fund for books was set up in both
schools. An in-service training unit was established within the MOH and training centres set up in all
distnrct health team. Support w as also given to the development of the Nurses and midwives Council which
regulates nursing practice in the Gambia.
Considering the limited scope of the NTP and the co-management within the NHDP PMU it could be
considered an qualified success. Project sub-components were all executed successfully. But barely tvo
v'ears after the completion of the project all but three of the trained tutors for the SEN school in Bansang
have left the school. The book revolving fund is in difficulty. The NTP missed in resolving two major
policv issues concerned within the two schools. Combining the two training schools to produre a graduate
for the Gambia PHC system was never resolved This would save cost, reduce duplication provide a single
career structure with promotional opportunities. Despite all the inputs of the project, the midwiferv course
for the SEN school introduced under the NTP is still based in Banjul mainly due to inadequate
accommodation for students and tutors. The NHDP was a lost opportunity to assist government in
addressing the overall health manpower situation.
8. HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
The health infrastructure at the beginning of the NHDP was antiquated and clearly unable to support the
expanded PHC services. The expansion of the communitv based Village Health Services and increasing
coverage of MCHI/EPI had over a period of barely 6 years brought over 70% of Gambians -within the remit
of health services. The few health centres and dispensaries did not have the infrastructure to accommodate
either the increasing number of referrals coming from the VHS or the actual demand for higher level
curative care.
The civil works component of the project was to address these constrains through selective rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure and cautions expansion of the maternal and pediatric services at both major hospital.
The series of seven major health centres were to be built to support the referral system from VHSs.
dispensaries and minor health centres. Governnent was expected to complement this with the construction
of staff accommodation at all rural health facilities to facilitate deployment of experience and qualified
staff. In addition two new ventures were to be initiated; the construction of maternal waiting homes to
reduced maternal mortality and design and construction of a model health centre.
In budgetary terms of the civil works accounted for about 70% of the funds disbursed within the auspices
of the NHDP. Despite delays at the beginning, almost all the works identified were successfullv completed.
It took two and half years of project extension to accomplish this.
ODA (UK): The British Govermment (ODA) financed the renewal of the essential services and
rehabilitation of the RVH at a total cost of about $5.0 million. This is in addition to the construction of a
major health centre at Essua. The ODA also financed the UK Project Office which provided the TA
Architectural and Consulting Services for all NHDP civil works.
ITALIAN GOVERNMENT: Under a turn-key project the Italian Government constructed and
equipped three-more health centres: a polyclinic in Banjul; the central laboratory and pediatric unit at the



11
RVH and a new maternity wing and ODP at Bansang Hospital. All the Italian construction projects were
handed over to government by early 1990.
EUROPEAN UNION: The European Union (EU)) through the European Development Fund (EDF)
agreed to finance the construction of one major health centre at Basse and six MCH/EPI outreach clinic
sites around Upper River Division. Despite cost over-runs and construction delays, the project was
completed and handed over to government in 1993.
DUTCH GOVERNMENT: The Dutch Govemrnent contribution to the civil works vas largely due to
the availabilitv of counterpart funds accruing from the sale a heavy duty power generation fuel donated to
the govemment. This funds were used for the strengthening of the State Enrolled Nursing School and
Bansang Hospital. A total of just under DI 0 rmillion was available under this fuel grant. Ten units of fully
furnished senior staff houses were provided for use by the HMB and the SEN School. Additional class
rooms, administrative block, library, wardens house. an all purpose centre and renewal of the essential
services are now been provided for the SEN school. - -
IDA: The use of IDA funds in the civil works has been in three main areas. Essential equipment
(midwifery and anesthetic/surgical) and furniture necessary for the operation of constructed facilities were
provided. The essential services (reliable wvater supplies and backup/emergency power supplv) were
provided at existing health facilities not covered by the rehabilitation work. A model health centre was
designed and built at Kuntair and a model maternity waiting home was completed at Essua.
To support the CRP the central medical stores wvas rehabilitated and adequate and proper
storage facilities provided for drugs and other supplies.
GAMBIA GOVERNMvIENT: Within its yearly recurrent budgetarv provision, 24 units of senior staff
houses and 10 units of junior staff houses were constructed at different health facilities throughout the
country. All the houses were fully completed. These houses have not onlv "owed the deployment of senior
staff to these facilities but also enabled better of duty coverage for emergencies.
An overriding concern dunrng the implementation of the civil works is the balance between cost and quality
of the cost (specifications). The PMU had insisted on higher specifications to guaranty value for money.
This has in manv instances put the costs of facilities prohibitively high. The cost of a model maternity
home (D. 5m) of a rural health centre (D2.5m) makes the replication of these beyond the means of
government. The implementation of civil works is time consuming. The completion cycle for a major
health centre (design to defects and liabilities) is a rnimnmum of four years. Standardising designs and
specifications could reduce this significantly.
9. STRENGTHENING PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES
The strengthening of existing PHC was one of the fundamental underpinnings of the NHDP. These had
two major objectives. To extend existing viable Village Health Services to achieve geographic coverage of
the country. Secondly to implement a number of additional strategies to increase the effectiveness of the
existing PHC.
EXTENSION OF VILLAGE HEALTH SERVICES
At the beginning of the project resources were provided to establish 80 village health services in the
Westem Administrative Division. This is the last geographic area of the country to be covered. For the
first time village based services were introduced in conmmunities within commuting distance from Banjul
and with fairly large urban population.. In these urban periurban areas no VI)Cs were created or village



12
health workers trained. Depending on the size of population TBA were selected form different wards,
trained and redeployed back to their wards performing with better skills and equipment what they been
doing previously.
The development of the PHC in the periurban area under the guise of extending VHS was on ad-hoc basis
and the strategy was not well thought through. The demand for services with the fast growing
urban/periurban areas of Greater Banjul goes far beyond providing home based delivery by trained TBAs.
All indicators are that these TBAs conduct a significant number of safe deliveries and refer difficult cases
they cannot handle. Urban housing is precarious, overcrowded and with poor sanitary conditions, 0 these
conditions getting worst with increase population. Most urban mothers would deliver at home if they don't
have access to a health facility. This is compounded by the fact that TBAs do not address the increase
demand for MCH/EPI/FP services and general OPD. Urban trained TBA became 'isolated' units on their
own without regular supervision, recognition or any links with the formnal health services.






IBRD 2801 0
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~'~                                                                                      .'                                                            TI orh od Af.r . dolno; 1._      /'o           MZA UEr ITAN I A
TI~.oI',IdBac  L&aoa THE SENEGAL   0
ES              N       E      G        A       L                                            or oAI               GAMBIA   .-c              S_AL'
GUINEA. I                I
EISSAU.-   GO  I N E A 
--                                                                  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EONE
B'cggLa, \                               '          _, A                                                                          L
N                          B~~~~~~~Mdc'    rI'~"O'                                                                       
f  u  0  0  \  t  ..... ,, X A ................................. : ., r4'1 S                                                                 N , 
,_~~~~1.g                                                                                                           S       A      ''-'-        -        og'I.               '                                              '/  s  Fd  /eflA
~ 0-----                         -. 09-NSc" Ldd                                                                                                                                       ---A-E--- N    SgoI'K,  1  '
Boo                  v.~ro O             Q                             '-   'KI'O ,0  ,' ,/,r'r                                                                                                                                  E
Mowo    5Mr                                      Kerew; tor'  jSh,                                                      _._a,.an  bobroioo /onoie .v -                    /       E                                              i E  G  %L
"r ANJUL                       p                                                                           .                                                                         5-e---""                 )
J  ~ ~ ~~~~~~'gr.g-                                  -         "                             ATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         \r'W,a.
borg   Eo'ror.4'r  Lr"'~~~~~~~~~~~,0  gi, ~~~PROJECT HEALTH FACILITIES'N
SeaLs    V   SS-    F.-    R  S'oo                .'o,o.SrgSeoo-dor rorgo
A                                                                                                    -- -   - Soc,
D.~~~~~~~~~  H-dq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,-~~~oI,O'
IS'                                                                                                                       -               S~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E    N E    G    A    L
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,19









I MA  I71 NP'
Report No:        15738
Type: ICR



