Dm.s d
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6340-GM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEAL rH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 23, 1987
Population, Health and Nutricion Dep)artmpnt
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALEWS
Currency Uni:    Dalasi (D)
US$1.00       -      D 7.5
D 1          -    US$0.13
D 1 million  -  US$133.33
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BH             Bansang Hosnital
CHN            Community Health Nurse
CMS            Central Medical Store
DMS            Director of Medical Services
EPI            Expanded Program of Immunization
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
FAI             Italian Assistance Fund
GFPA           Gambia Family Planning Association
H;EU           Health Education Unit
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MEPID          Ministry of Economic P? anning and Industrial
Development
MHLSW          Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Welfare
ODA            Overseas Development Administration
OSE            Organization, Staffing and Efficiency Study
PHC            Primary Health Cdre
PIC            Project Implementation Committee
PMU            Project Management Unit
RHT            Regional Health Team
RViI           Royal Victoria Hospital
SEN            State Enrolled Nurse
SRN            State Registered Nurse
lBA            Traditional Birth Attendent
UKPO           United Kingdom Projects Office
UNCDF          United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activity
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
VHW            Village Health Worker
WHO            World Health Organization



-  -                     10F  OM ,CIA! Us ONLY
?aE GAMIA
NTIONAL HEALTH DEY3lW2T  PIOJUCT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower  :    The Gambia
Amount          TDA Credit: SDR 4.7 million (US$5.6 million equivalent)
Terms     :    Standard
-roiect   :    The proposed project consists of two parts to be undertaken
over a five year period:
(a) a program of reform. to strengthen health sector management.
financing and support systems through decenwralization,
reorganization, mobilization of financial resources, and
strengthening of logistical support; ano
(b) a program of investments to strengthen national health care
through (i) extension of Primary Health Care (PHC) to the
Western Region including the Banjul peri-urban area, and
expansion of the communicable disease program nationwide,
(ii) improvement of heal.th facilities, (iii) improved
training of nurses. (iv) enhanced health education.
nutrition and family planning programs, and (v) monitoring
and evaluation.
Benefits  :    The project will extend pri.mary health care services in one
presently underserved region and in the periurban areas of
Banjul. Strengthening of health services will offer low cost
health care and disease prevention to many rho do not now
have it. The project would improve health status through
better maternal and child care, more effective communicable
disease control programs, and through greater use of family
planning and nutrition services. The proposed reforms aimed
at strengthening health sector management, finance, and
support systems will encourage better use of scarce
resources, increased responsiveness to local needs and
greater financial accountability. Through the introduction
of cost recovery measures, the project is expected to
This document hAs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriution.



- ii -
reduce subsidies to and generate revenues for the
health sector. By establishing clearer priorities for
investments in the health sector. the project vill provide a
framevork for better use of foreign assistance.
Risks          The main risk of the project is related to the level of
sustained Government support to the sectoral reform proposed
under the project, particularly those referring to cost
recovery measures. Failure to improve cost recovery volnld
make the project recurrent costs unaffordable and would
destroy the credibility of the health system if drugs and
supplies are not readily available. The Government's strong
commitment to undertake these reforms provides reasons to be
optim5istic about the success of the project. Technical
assistance and a large amount of project-related training are
also provided to minimize this risk. A shortage of foreign
exchange could make it difficult for the Government to
guarantee the convertibility of the Dalasi and thus ensure
the operation of the revolving fund. However, the Government
has clearly demonstrated its determination to redress
internal and external financial imbalances and to maintain a
flexible exchange rate. The econcuic program it has embarked
upon is being supported by an IMF Standby and IDA's
Structural Adjustment Credit.



Lil -
stb  1t*d Costs  ,/                                 Local     Foreigis   Total
(US$ million)
A.  Reforms in Management. Finance                   0.3        3.43      3.7
and Support Systems
B.  Strengthening Health Services                    2.6       13.0      15.6
C.  PPF                                              0.0        0.4       0.4
Total iese Costs                                 2.9      16.8       19.7
Physical contingencies 2/                        0.D       0.2        0.2
Price Contingencies                              0.1       0.8        0.9
Total Project Costs                              3.0      17.8       20.A
Financing Plan 3/
IDA                                              0.4       5.2        5.6
Government                                       0.5       0.8        1.3
Italy                                            1.9       7.7        9.6
Netherlands                                      0.0       2.0        2.0
United Kingdom                                   0.0       0.9        0.9
UNCDF                                            0.0       0.4        0.4
China                                            0.2       0.8        1.0
Total. finacins                              3.0      17.8       20.8
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY         1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
- Annual       0.9    1.0      1.2    1.0    1.0    0.5
- Cumulative   0.9    1.9      3.1    4.1    5.1    5.6
Rate of Returns:  n.a.
1/   Net of import taxes and duties, from which the project is exempt.
2/   No physical or price contingencies were applied to items financed
by Italy as the civil works being financed by them are almost
completed and the furniture and equipment are currently being
delivered. As to the other b1iateral donors, the value of their
financing package has already been fixed.
3/   Participqtion of all co-financiers has been confirmed except for
that of China for which discussion with the Government is ongoing.



- is -
STA1V Afl SAUL rW
TM3 @MIA
N&TIOAL EMIR D LOFYWT PFJUCT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit  and  Project  Suwuary    ....................... ......... .  i
I.  INTRODUCTION   ...........................,..................... 
II.  POPULATION, HEALTH AN) NUTRITION IN THE GAMBIA  .......     1
A.  Health. Nutrition and Demographic Profile               1
B.   Policy Strategy for Sector                             2
C.  Health Services Organization and Administration 44      3
D.   Health  Services   ..... .................... . a ...  4
E.   Supporting Facilities and Supplies  ..............     6
F.  Family Planning Services                                8
G.   Nutrition Services  ...                                8
H.   Sectoral Expenditures                                  9
I.  Sectoral Issues                                        1Q
J.  Bank Role and Strategy                                 10
III. THE PROJECT ......... .....,.,.
A.   Project Objectives and Background...".......ound..    11
B.   Project Components                                    12
This report is based on the findings of an IDA aissioxt that visited The
Gambia in January 1986. The mission consisted of N. Birdsall (aission
leader), R. Buagarner. C. Fogle. A. Measham. G. Sinclcir and M. Wheeler
(consultant). Mrs. L. Domingo contributed to the writing of this report.



PEaA No.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ...... .......   .......   18
V.   PRWOJCT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ............. o... . o   .....   24
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..............   25
1.1  Basic Date ,...........,, 27
1.2   Definition  ....................... .................  28
1.3  Documents and Data in The Project File  ...............  29
2.1  Family Planning in The Gambia                                3C
3.1  Health Sector Expenditures 1979/80 - 1985/86  .........  33
3.2  Recurrent Budgets, Health Sector. 1984 - 1987  ........  34
4.1  Ezisting Organization Chart of the Ministry of Health.
Labor and Social Welfare                                  36
4.2  Proposed Organization          ... .......,.......  37
5.1  Revolving Fund for Drugs and Other Consumables  .......  38
6.1  Transport Services of the Ministry of Health. Labor and
Social Welfare  .......45
7.1  Summary of Technical Assistance  .....................  47
7.2  Draft Plan of Sectoral Reforms .,......                      48
8.0  In-Service Training Program ...................              52
8.1  Nutrition Action Program  *...........g......                53
9.1  Project Costs : Summary Accounts by Year                     54
9.2  Project Costs : Summary Accounts by Project Component . 55
9.3  Project _Oosts : Breakdown of Summary Accounts  .,,   56
9.4  Project Costs : Project Components by year  ...........  57
10.1 Sources and Uses of Funds in the Health Sector,
1984/b5 - 1992/93 5..........ee..e                          58
11.1 Procurement   .... .           ......eeee....  ..ee.  61
11.2 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                          62
MAP IBRD 19657



U&TIOWL AUD   MT          an 1~Y~ m   PROJUCT
I.  ITO CTIO
1.01      Thp Gambia is a poor country whose economic potential is limited;
it is depend*   on rainfall that is highly irregular and Is concentrated in
a short peri   of the year.  Its economy is predominantly rural, with
agriculture (largely small traditional family farms) making up 58 percent of
gross domestic product (GDP). There are no known mining resources;
irrigated agriculture is hampered by intrusion of tidal salt water far
upriver during the long dry season; dry cropping of groundnuts and of a few
drought-resistant grains are the main sources of economic growth. GNP per
capita is only $260 (1984j and has been declining steadily over the past
decade due in large part to the sharp drop in the relat4ve price of
groundnuts since the early 1980's.  With the GNP expected to increase by no
more than 0.5 percent per annum in the medium term, the rate of economic
growth is unlikely to exceed that of population growth. A detailed
assessment of basic needs and current and prospective economic prospects in
The Gambia are contained in reports entitled, respectively. Basiz N'eeds in
The Gambia, a World Bank Country Study, 1981 and the Report and
Recommendation of the President for a Structural Adjustment Program (Report
No. P-4362-GM, July 9. 1986).
II. POPUlATION. HLTH AN  NORITION rN THE GAMBIA
A.  leaith, htrition and Deographic Prof il
2.01      Infections, complications of pregnancy and childbirth, and
malnutrition contribute to a life expectancy in The Gambia of 42 years.
among the world's lowest. Infant mortality in 1973 was 217 per 1,000 live
births. Preliminary data from the 1983 census indicate that the rate may
now be about 125 per 1.000 live births. A recent study undertaken by the
Government suggested a maternal mortality rate around 10 per 1.000 live
births, among the highest reported anywhere in the world.
2.02      The most widespread diseases in The Gambia are malaria, diarrhea.
and respiratory tract infections. Malaria is the commonest cause of
outpatient consultation in the basic health services, and studies indicate
that 1 in 20 children under age five die as a direct result of malaria.
High fatality rates for malaria among all ages persist. The likely causes
for the high rates of illness and death associated with malaria include
delayed consultation with a health worker and self-medication. Three years
ago, the Government began testing a new approach to malaria control through



- 2 -
natiomwide chesoprophylaxis aimed at those most at risk, i.e. children under
five and pregnant women. Preliminary results confirm that treatment has
significantly lowered rates of malaria morbidity and mortality.
2.03      For the most vulnerable groups (infants and young children) there
is a pronounced sessonality to morbidity and mortality, with peaks during
the rainy season when increases in malaria-carrying mosquitoes and
environmental conditions conducive to the spread of diarrhea greatly
increase. Hospital data indicate a rising incidence of tuberculosis and
little decline in leprosy and schistosomia3is incidence. Programs for
tuberculosis, leprosy and schistosomiasis are included in the nationwide
effort to expand the range and effectiveness of services offered at the
village level. Other diseases (such as meningitis and the sexually
transmitted diseases) are also important causes of morbidity and mortality
but limitations in diagnostic services preclude the development of
reasonable estimates of their prevalence.
2.04       Malnutrition severely affects infants and young children.  Energy
ittake of pregnant and lactating women is below the WHO/FAO recommendations
year round and, during the rainy season falls to below 40-50 percent of the
recommended levels. Coupled with heavy demands on women to provide
agricultaral labor, this low energy intake contributes to declines in birth
weights and in maternal milk production. A review of hospital admissions
during 1982 showed that malnutrition was the second most common diagnosis
among children. Eighteen percent of recorded child deaths was due to
malnutrition with a secondary diagnosis of an infectious disease.
2.05      During the decade between the last two censuses, The Gambia exper-
ienced a rapid expansion of population -- from 493,000 persons in 1973 to
697,000 in 1983 - an annual growth rate of 3.5 percent. It is estimated
that about half of the population are under 16 years of age. The population
is approximately 25-30 percent urban with 90 percent of the urban dwellers
residing in Banjul and its peri-urban areas. The crude birth rate is
estimated at 55 per 1,000 persons for 1983 and the crude death rate at 20
per 1,000 persons. The total fertility rate is estimated tc be 6.5. A
typical age of marriage in rural areas is 15 years. with immediate
commencement of childbearing whi:h often continues until the mother's own
health has been affected by repeated pregniancies. While widespread
breastfeeding helps ensure that birth intervals are not unduly short,
Government policy is to increase birth intervals and the age of first
pregnancy, to reduce maternal and infant mortality and morbidity and
fertility rate.
B. Policy Stratemy for Sector
2.06      During the First Five Year Plan (1975-1980). the health sector
shared in an increasing volume of public expenditure, withi emphasis on



-3-
eztending services to rural areas.  The main achievement was the
establishment of a national system of maternal and child health (MCH)
clinics vith mobile teams serving over 100 locations. In 1979 che Gambia
adopted a Primary Health Ca-e (PHC) Policy which proposed that by the year
2000 there should be village health services mannad by community volunteers
in all villages with more than 200 population.
2.07      The Second Five Year Plan (1981-1986) placed 'the nationaL priority
on rural development, and identified the PHC Program as the instruxiental
strategy. The Plan enumerated the resource shifts implied by the policy:-
from urban to rural, from curative to preventive, fron, individual to
community, and from personal to environmental services   Notwithstanding
severe cuts in real expenditure over the last three years. the Government
has adhered to the policy, as evidenced by the relative shift in firtancial
resources away from hospitals and the over-achievement of the Second Plan
target for village health services (260 villages with more than 400
population each, compared with the target of 200 villages). The vambia's
population policy was also revised in the Second Plan, which acknowledged
for the first time the need for an official family planning program.
C. - esth Services ftganization and Adniatration
2.08      Health services are provided through the Ministry of Health, Labor
and Soeial Welfare (MHLSW). Religious missions, the British Medical
Research Council and private physicians also provide services. There are
three levels of public health services: (a) the Royal Victoria Hospital
(RVH) and Bansang loRVital (BH); (b) health centers. dispensaries, and
subdispensaries; and (c) village health services.
2.09      The MHLSW is responsible for formulating and implementing the
national health policy and for managing the health system. The Medical and
Health Department of MHLSW is responsible for pro"iding health services and
its head, the Director of Medical Services (DMS), functions as the technical
advisor to the Minister (Chart 1.). In administrative and policy matters,
the DMS is responsible to the Minister through the Permanent Secretary. The
DMS is supported by senior professional advisors and heads of services
(including the Assistant D'S, Medical Officer of Health, Chief Pharmacist,
and the Chief Nursing Officer), and by technical support units
(Epidemiology/Statistics, MCH, EPI, Health Education, PHC Training, and
Nutrition). Key logistical and support services (accounts, transport,
central stores) and the Health Planning Unit are administratively under the
direct control of the Permanent Secretary. The management of the MHLSW is
centralized with an unusual number of detailed matters having to be decided
upon directly by the Permanent Secretary's office, yet the Medical and
Health Department is organizationally and physically separate from the
MHLSW. This contributes to frequent delays and inefficiency in the delivery
of health services. Within the Department, organizational units are
handicapped by lack of even basic budget authority (e.g. use of fuel and
vehicles on a day-to-day basis must be approved by the Permanent Secretary).



-4-
Control over personnel assignments, discipline and work programs is also
centralized which has limited the capacity of the Department to carry out
its activities efficiently. The Hea!th Planning Unit does not yet function
uffectively to identify key constraints to the delivery of services and to
formulate plans of action and new investments to address the shortcominge.
The Epidemiology and Statistics Unit has suffered from lack of trained staff
and resources to collect and analyze health data. Additional staff and
funds, a review of the current health information system, especially in
relation to family planning, MCII and nutrition needs, and a detailed pldn to
guide the Unit's work are needed.
2.10      Under the DMS there are three Regional Health Teams (RHTs), each
with posLs for a Medical Officer, Public Health Nurse and Public Health
Superintendent. To date. not all posts are filled, only limited planning and
control over personnel matters, and virtually no budget authority has been
delegated to the RHTs. The two hoFpitals are exeluded from regional
administration and have been treated as extensions of the Medical and Health
Department, which must approve all major administrative decisions. The
hospital managers are directly :esponsible to the DMS. The hospitals do not
keep separate financial ac-ounLs nor are there cost accounting systems in
place to provide incentives to efficient internal management.
D, Realth Service.
2.11      RVH with 283 beds and BH with 70 beds provide thi tertiary level
of health care for the country. They both serve as -eferral hospitals and
as training centers. RVH relies heavily on expatriates to fill specialist
medical and technical positions. These include British physicians, funded
by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA), and pediatric and
maternity nursing staff supported by Save the Children, a non-governmental
organization (NGO). At BH a Chinese medical team provides 9 of the 10
physicians on the staff.
2.12       Although designed to serve as the country's major referral
facility. RVH's capacity for such is frequently overcome by its heavy
outpatient load caused by lack of health center capacity within Banjul. RVH
has a new maternity ward but is in dilapidated condition. Electric power.
water and maintenance are inadequate. There are no emergency or intensive
care facilities or equipment and the hospital has only one operating
theater. Laboratory facilities are cramped and ill-equipped. Pediatric
facilities are in poor condition, over-crowded and underequipped.
Conditions at Bansang Hospital are generally even worse.
2.13      A network of 16 health centers, 14 dispensaries. 7 health clinics
and 67 subdispensaries provides basic health services. The health centers
typically have a senior staff of three persons, of whom two are trained as
nurse-practitioners - one of whom is the dresser dispenser, responsible for
handling minor trauma and illness; the second is a nurse-midwife.
responsible for maternity care, family planning and child health. The third



staff omeber is noxually a public health inspector. engaged in environmental
health activities and the immunization program. Treatment sessions are held
at subdispenuaries on regular visits by the dresser-dispenser based at the
nearest health center or dispensary. "Trekking teams" based at health
centers visit surrounding dispensaries, subdispensaries, and other selected
locations to hold ante-natal and child welfare clinics. These mobile teams
provide MCH services (including immunizations) at more than 120 locations.
Most rural health facilities are dilapidated, with leaky roofs, inadequate
light. ventilation, electricity, and water eupplies. Simple furniture for
patients and for storage is in short supply and basic medical equipment is
often non-existent or broken. Essential drugs and supplies are scarce.
2.14      Village level services are provided through village-based health
workers (VHW). either thr ugh a male VHW trained to administer simple
curative health services and preventive care, or a traditional birth
attendant (TBA) (usually female) trained in maternity care. Both workers
are chosen by village representatives organized into a village development
committee which is responsible for arranging payments in kind or in cash to
the VHW. As has been in the past, the TBA is paid directly by her patients.
Following a short training period, both workers work under the supervision
of a community health nurse (CdN) based in a "key" village. The 'key'
village is typically the largest of a cluster of 4 o- 5 villages. The CHN
visits each on a weekly schedule. VHWs are provided with an initial three
months stock of 11 basic drugs, the sale of which permits restocking of
supplies. VHWs are given technical supervision directly by the RHT without
regular participation by the health center staff, thus failing to re nforce
the referral links from village to health center. The PHC program is
generslly working well with the exception of inadequate recurrent cost
funding for (a) adequate transport, fuel and supplies for supervisory
personnel and mobile teams and (b) training of village development
committees in village development planning and cash management.
2.15      The VHW system wag first established in the eastern and central
regions, as they were previously less well-served than tie western region.
Resource constraints have prevented the MHLSW to date from extending it to
the western region. The only village health care presently available in the
western region is that of traditional healers and TBAs. The Government now
plans to extend PHC to the western regior including the peri-urban area of
Banjul. About 132.000 persons (or 19 percent of the country's population)
reside in the peri-urban areas of Banjul and have little or no access to PHC
programs or facilities. They live in high density settlements with limited
public utilities or social services. Projections suggest that population in
these areas could quadruple by the year 2000. While the established PHC
pactern for delivery of health services in rural villages is satisfactory,
the establishment of PHC in peri-urban areas, however, will be A more
problematic undertaking, since community organization patterns are
different from those in the villages. A WHO consultant is currently
conducting a study to determin3 the social structures in the peri-urban area
and to identify the most appropriate channels through which community-based
health programs can function.



2.16      Although MCR services in The Gambia enjoy a priority which
predates the PHC strategy, the limited MCH services introduce4 in recent
years have been sharply cut back in 1985/86 due to shortages of fuel and of
vaccines. In the past. MCH services had been offered 2-4 times a month in
each health center through mobile health clinics staffed by a visiting team
based at regional levels. Now, mobile clinics rarely visit more than once a
aonth. Despite the great importance of family planning services in
improving the health of women and children, the availability of such
services (and particularly surgical contraceptive procedures) also remains
limited.
2.17      The important role which nurses play has been greatly undermined
by a serious shortage of nurses and a nurse training curriculum which does
not reflect the PHC orientation. There are three cadres of nursing staff in
The Gambia: the State Registered Nurse (SRN), the State Enrolled Nuroe
(SBN). and the Community Health Nurse (CRN). The SRNs have tbree years of
training to prepare them for administrative and supervisory roles in
hospitals and healtb centers. Neither their preservice training (in 3anjul)
nor their subsequent postings (also usually in Banjul) encourage the
development of links with the community level health activities. The middle
level nursing cadre, the SENs, undergo two years of training at RVH to
perform practical nursing activities in hospitals and health centers, the
latter of which is now not emphasized adequately. Their role has become
blurred since their training overlaps with that of the SRNs and CHNs, and.
like that of the SRNs, includes little orientation in PHC. CHNs are a
recently fo-med cadre recruited mainly from areas outside the capital. They
receive 18 months of training at Mansakonko (in the central health region),
including field training in the villages to prepare them to act as first
line supervisors of VHWs and to provide MCH services at health centers. The
CHNs are overworked and the burden on them is growing. Nursing instruction
techniques and materials need upgrading, in light of the new definition of
health system goals. Reforms of the curriculum iir SRNs and State Certified
Midwives and the retraining of nureing instructors to include PHC in the
curriculum are already underway with support from the United Kingdom.
Revision in the curricula of the SENs and the CHNs and retraining for
nursing instructors and clinical supervisors to upgrade the clinical
training are also needed.
K. 9pportins Facilities and 8tp1ii
2.18      The existing DMS vehicle fleet includes about 90 poorly maintained
units, of which one-third should be scrapped and one-third should undergo
majo repairs. Over 50 percent of the vehicles are disabled at any given
time due to old age and shortages of spare parts. These problems are
exacerbated by a non-standardized fleet and lack of maintenance facilities.
The budgetary allocation for operating costs is insufficient, and there are
severe difficulties in fuel allocation and distribution, especially to
remote rural stations. Lack of reliable transport has had serious effects



-7-
on the delivery of health services. To link the village and dispensary-
level health services more effectively to the referral health centers and
the hospitals, the transportation fleet would need to be completely
replaced, better maintenance assured, and new procedures established to
assure reliable fuel supply.
2.19      Telecommunications in The Gambia are unreliable at best and non-
existent for most of the rural areas.   Lack of telephone or radio links
between hospitals, RHTs and health centers leads to wasteful use of scarce
fuel and vehicles, creates a sense of isolation and neglect for staff in
peripheral areas, and makes routine supervision and administration unduly
difficult.
2.20      Drugs and consumable medical supplies are procured and distributed
by the Central Medical Store (CMS) of the MHLSW.   Drugs for the RVH, BH,
and the Western Region are supplied directly from CMS, while regional
medical stores supply the central and eastern regions. Storage conditions at
CMS are generally adequate but selected upgrading of the building and
provision of cool storage space for some drugs, better fire protection,
increased shelf space and better transport are needed. The CMS has received
technicr.l assistance from Africare. a Non Governmental Organization (NGO),
in drug and supply management, inventory control and monitoring. While
basic systems for efficient management are in place, strict enforcement of
procedures, higher staff productivity and motivation, and most importantly,
regular funding are needed.
2.21        The amount  ' medical supplies and drugs available to CMS is
inadequate. The budget allocation for CMS drugs and supplies for 1985/86
was DO.8 million (about $300,000 equivalent at the time the budget was
approved). This would be equivalent to only 7.4 percent of the budget for
health services, low compared with other African countries.  The budgeted
expenditure on public sector supply of drugs of D1.1 per capita ($0.14
equivalent at current exchange rates) is low compared to the WHO guideline
for essential drug requirements of about $1.50 per capita.
2.22      The overall scarcity of foreign exchange has meant that CMS has
been dep-ndent on donations which have been inadequate. Health workers
report frequent shortages of even the most basic drugs, with serious health
consequences, particularly with regard to communicable diseases. Supplies
in PHC villages are more reliable as VHWs charge a modest fee for basic
drugs which is used to replenish their supply. These drugs are administered
separately in the medical stores system and are resupplied by UNICEF. For
other drugs, replenishment requests to CMS from lower levels in the system
can often be only partly filled, if at all,
2.23      Health, family planning and nutrition education has been
constrained by lack of tested informational materials and training for
health workers in the effective use of these materials. Coordination of
health education activities with health st,rvices has been difficult, due in
part to management and transport constraints. Advance activity planning has
been hampered by the general budget p01aTrling weaknesses in ,HLSW.
Successful earlier health elicati-ri campaigns stich as the oral rehydration



- 8 -
therapy program funded by USAID bave ended, and the lack of follow-up
activity risks the loss of awareness and experience by health workers and
the population.
F.  aMU   ?lmim Services
2.24      Interest in and delivery oi fasily planning services in the Gambia
appear to be expanding. Family planning services are provided by the MHLSW
and by the private Gambia Family Planning Association (GFPA). The MHLSW's
family planning activities have in the post been provided mainly at RVH and
BH. and, to a more limited extent, at health ceonters and dispensaries.
However, under the PHC program, training in family planning has been
provided to TBAs. VHWs and CNs; training for hospital nurses is planned.
As training in family planning of VHEW is completed. distribution of
contraceptives and referral to health centers is becoming more widespread.
2.25      The GFPA has 7 clinics and provides mobile services at 70 other
locations. It has trained about 50 agents, most of them dresser/dispensers.
who operate private clinics and pharmacies, to provide family planning
information and dispense contraceptives. The GIPA also began a comunity-
based distribution project in 1984 and trained 30 TBAs on family planning.
In 19d3. the Government and the GFPA signed a memorandum of understanding.
agreeing to use a common training curriculum, a uniform clinical record
card, and to coordinate services where appropriate. However, there has been
little actual coordination, and there are unexploited opportunities for the
Governmer' to sake better use of GFPA's resources to complement the
Government's activities.
2.26      The contraceptive prevalence rate is approximately 15 percent.
higher than the 3-5 percent reported for most neighboring countries (See
Annex 2). This rate is encouraging in view of the newness of the
Government's family planning program. To further increase contraceptive
acceptance, the Government's program must overcome the bias toward large
families, in part the result of constant high infant mortality rates. and in
part the perceived need of parents for economic assistance in their old age
from their children. It also must strengthen health education efforts.
G. htritioe Services
2.27      In response to the high incidence of malnutrition, the MHLSW has
included limited nutrition-related activities in its PHC program. Infant-
weighing scales and growth charts have been distributed to CHNs, who have
received some training in their use. When malnutrition in a village is
identified, however, the only program response now available at that level
is the use of nutrition education messages, a strategy which does not
address shortages of food or reluctance of mothers to devote time to child
feeding during the planting season. Extreme cases of malnutrition require



_ 9 _
the remowal of child and mother to a health center or to the RVH for
trestment, but this rarely happens.
2.25      The Nutrition Unit of the Medical and Health Department is staffed
by a nutritionist and three support staff. Lack of funding has prevented
the Unit from doing more than nutritional surveillance. Yet, there are
sizable but uncoordinated nutrition efforts in the Departments of Agric-
ulture, Education and Community Development whose impact on nutrition status
has not been evaluated. There is also little apparent coordination of the
nutrition activities of about 13 non-goverrnental agencies and seven
international and bilateral agencies. Their combined impact on nutrition.
therefore, has been much less than it should have been. Moreover, since
nutritional conditions in The Gambia are influenced by macroeconomic
policies such as the pricing of agricultural products, improvements in
nutritional status are unlikely to occur until those policies are made with
nutrition considerations in mind. Better coordination between the MILSi.
the Ministry of Agriculture, M3PID and other agencies i. needed if the
severe nutritional problems are to be adequately addressed.
B.  Sectorsl lkpeditere
2.2"      Since the PHC program was established in 1979/80 the Government
has made marked efforts to refocus budget expenditure in favor of PHC.
During 1979/80 to 1985/86 health expenditure grew at an annual average rate
of 38 percent (reaching D 11.79 million). Capital expenditure during this
period grew at 82 percent while recurrent expendi'ure grew at 31 percent
annual rate. As a result, capital expenditure increased from 17 percent of
the total budget in 1979/80, to 46 percent in 1985/86. In 1980/86 the
Government spent 64 percent of its development budget on PHC and 36 percent
on hospitals. This contrasts sharply with 1966/77 when 70 percent of
capital expenditure was on hospitals. Given The Gambia's poor health
conditions and commitment to effective public bealth care this effort to
reform the budget has been appropriate and largely successful.
2.;3      Budgeted per capita expenditure totaled D 23.8 in 1985/86 ($7.43
equivalent at the exchange rate prevailing at the beginning of the year but
only $3.50 equivalent at current rates). These rates are still low in
comparison to other African countries, as is bealth expenditure as a
proportion of GDP (2.7 percent).
2.31      These data disguise a disturbing and increasing trend within the
recurrent budget toward preponderance of expenditure on perso"nel. and
relatively low expenditure On drugs and supplies and maintenance of capital
assets. Expenditure on drugs and supplies is well under 20 percent of
recurrent expenditure and allocations have declined in real terms since 1983
while population and utilization of services have grown. This trend has
been part of the general problem of increasing public sector employment and
wages vithout a corresponding increase in productivity and output.



- 10 -
2.32      The principle of cost recovery in established in The Gambia's
public sector health services. The direct operating costs of village Lealth
services are already largely covered by the beneficiaries through conunal
incooe support to VHWs, and partial payment for drugs received from VHWs.
In 1985 the Government introduced general outpatient fees, albeit low.
payable at all health unit.
2.33      In 1984, ezternal aid to the health sector amounted to about
US$4.3 million, or about US$ 6.14 per capita. The major multilateral donors
include WHO, which provides training and technical assistance; UNICEF,
which focuses on imunizations. drugs. child nutrition and rural health; and
UNFPA which provides contraceptives, technical assistance and census
support. Bilateral donors include Great Britain, which provides technical
assistance, vehicles and supplies; The Netherlands, vhich provides technical
assistance and drugs; and China. wbich provides the physicians at BR and has
constructed and operates four health centers. The multiplicity of small
asistance efforts, particularly those which relate to family planning and
nutrition but without adequate linkages to health services has caused
probleas in the MHLSW. The cumulative effect of the numbers of donors and
programs is that the already pressed administrative capability of the MHLSW
to undertake sound implementation and adequate monitoring is further
stressed.
I. Sectoral Iasses
2.34      As described above, the effectiveness of the health care system is
limited by three major constraints: (a) the inadequate financing of
non-salary recurrent costs; (b) the centrAlized management structure, with
inadequate attention to budgeting and planning; and (c) the inadequate
numbers of adequately trained health workers, particularly doctors and
senior nursing staff. These constraints impinge daily on services at every
level. Currently the Government is unable to provide essential support
Ce.g. fuel. vehbcle and building maintenance) for the health system
infrastructure and a reliable supply of essential drugs and medical
supplies.
J. ask Role sad Strategy
2.35      During project preparation, IDA has been closely involved with tbe
Government in assensing the health system and related family planning and
nutrition efforts. The main themes which have emerged from this work - the
need for reforms and decentralizatico of management, planning and budgeting.
reaffirmation of focussed interventions in PHC, strengthening of family
planning services and of health manpower, and new efforts to solve recurrent
cost financing problems - have become mainstays of the Government's sectoral
strategy. particularly as economic conditions have worsened and concerns
with reform and efficiency have spread. As a result, and with strong
commitment to its national health objectives, the Government prepared a



- 11 -
project wbhbc involves reforms to improve efficiency, new initiatives in
NO., family plnning, nutrition and manpower training, and intensified
efforts at cost recovery. Success in the.. efforts will allow The Gambia
not only to consolidate and preserve the impressive gains which it has made
in PFC but to eztend PHC to unnerved areas, strengthen basic health
infrastructure and services. and develop nev initiatives that combine
prevention, cost-effective treatment, and increased resource mobilization to
snsure affordability.
2.36      The rationale for IDA involvement in the health sector in The
Geabia is to help structure and ensure the implementation of the needed
policy reforms. to strengthen inrtitutions and their management at all
levels of the health system, to help develop efficiency in use of resources
for the sector and to effect cost savings through project design and
investments which improve productivity and avoid futvre high operating
expenditures. rDA will also have the oppo-itunity to encourage other donors
and to aasist Government to coordinate inputs to the health sector and avoid
investments whieh do not address priority needs, or vhich do not minimize
additional recurrent costs and imports.
II. in PROJECT
A. Preict Objectives sad Daekprmmd
3.01      The project aims to strengthen and expand The Gambia's national
health program, including essential family planning and nutrition
activities. The project would decentralize health sector management,
improve planning and enhance cost recovery. Project investment would expand
FEC and family planning sarvices, improve institutional etfl.ctiveness and
efficiency it the health aystem. and strengthen support systems, including
the supply and distribution of drugs and supplies, transport and
communications. AB part of the Economic Recovery Program (RWP). the
Goverment is undertsking a retrenchment of investment and reduction in
staffing of civil services posts, particularly those which are outside the
regular approved post structure. An Organization. Staffing and Efficiency
Study (OSE Study) has recommended a number of organizational reforms with
consequent recurrent cost savings. The proposed project and the reforms
eavisaged thereunder are fully consistent vitb these recommendations. The
recommended additional staffing and investments are justified by the need to
make effective use of existing resources and infrastructure of a potentially
strong health system and to reduce the unacceptably high levels of
fertility, malnutrition, morbidity. and mortality by which The Gambia's
health status is characterized. To postpone these investments during the
ERP period while waiting for economic growtb to accelerate vould be
unacceptable in both its human and economic costs.



- 12 -
D. Project CceeomDta
3.02      The project consists of two parts:
(a) a program of reforms to strengthen health sector management,
financing and support systems through decentralization, reorganization,
mobilization of financial resources, and strengthening of logistical
support;
(b) a program of investments to strengthen national health care
through (i) extension of PHC to the Western Region and to the Banjul peri-
urban area and expansion of the communicable disease program nationwide,
(ii) improvement of health facilities. (iii) improved nursing skills. (i:)
enhanced health education. nutrition and family planning programs and (v)
monitoring and evaluation.
Proiet Descrlption
(a)  Reform  to Strmthw. Health Sector Naag t, Fine. ad  uipport
3.03      To strengthen management, financing, and support systems the
Government would implement a series of reforms to provide greater
efficiency. accountability. improved planning and coordination, increased
resource mobilization, and better logistical support and supply.
3.04      Central Reorganization.  The MHLSW would realign administrative
responsibilities and integrate the two separate record systems of the MHLSW
and the Department of Health and Medical Services and relocate key staff to
a single office complex. Existing and proposed reorganization charts of the
MHLSW are shown in Annex 4. These reforms and the reorganization are
supported by the OSE study.
3.05      As recommended by the OSE Study the hospitals would be made semi-
autonomous institutions under the MHLSW with a specific set of devolved
management and financial responsibilities. A Hospital Board would be
established to assist in developing health policies and to ensure their
implementation. A Hospital Executive Committee would be responsible for
implementing policy and conducting day-to-day management of the hospitals.
As semi-autonomous institutions, the hospitals would be required to
establish separate accounting systems, keep cost accounts, plan and
administer the annual budget, and manage allocated manpover, within policy
guidelines established by the Hospital Board and approved by the MHLSW.
3.06      Decentralization.  Management would be decentralized at all
levels. Within policy guidelines to be issued by the MHLSW, the three RHTs
vould have increased authority to manage daily affairs, includirg
expenditure authority witbin approved budget allocations, personnel



- 13 -
*mnageaent within predetermined limits, and control over local transport.
Health center staff would be given greater responsibility for supervision of
village health services, and village development committees would be
assisted to play a more active role in supervising activities of the VHWs.
3.07      Mobilization of Financial Resources,  To improve the financing of
non-salary recurrent costs the Government will. extend its cost recovery
efforts by: (a) charging fees for services, drugs, and medical supplies, and
(b) improving existing systems for collection and accounting for fees. A
revolving fund would be established whicb would be capitalized by (a)
proceeds of cxternal grants, credits, and gifts made f r drugs and medical
supplies, and (b) Government budget allocations for the purchase of drugs
and medical supplies during the period. Fees paid by patients for drugs,
medical supplies, and services would accrue to the Fund as income. It is
expected that the Fund could gradually reduce subsidies, improve efficiency
and generate revenues for health care. (Details of the revolving fund,
tentative projections of Fund income and expenditures, and riaks to be
considered are contained in Annex 5).
3.08      To ensure that the cost recovery system can be effectively
established and the revolving fund properly capitalized, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would (a) ensure that there is
at all times in the revolving fund sufficient amounts to meet the coets of
drugs and medical supplies: (b) pay into the Fund amounts lost from
movements in the rates of exchange between local and foreign currencies: (c)
provide the foreign exchange required for the Fund's efficient operation;
and (d) use the surpluses accruing to the Fund, excluding surpluses from
exchange rate movements, for funding of other pro3ect components.   To
ensure that the income from the Fund would not substitute for recurrent
budget allocations to the health se:tor, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would ensure that its recurrent budget
expenditure on health, as a percentage of total recurrent budget expenditure
(exclusive of debt service) are maintained at not less than the 1985/86
level.
3.09       To establish and effectively implement the Fund, the project
would provide MHLSW with technical assistance, staff training, materials,
and handling equipment. In addition, the facilities of the CMS would be
upgraded modestly to improve efficiency in stocking and distribution of
supplies, and to reduce losses and wastage.
3.10      Support Systems.  The MHLSW's transport services would be
reorganized and improved through a program to (a) replace about 30
unserviceable vehicles. (b) standardize vehicle types. (c) institute a
regular maintenance and repair program, in each region; and td) rationalize
fuel distribution including establishment of regional storage facilities and
provision of a tanker truck. A local transport fleet manager has been
appointed as recommended by the OSE Study. To redress the critical shortage
of fuel the project includes a modest allocation for the annual work program
of the health services. Further details are given in Annex 6.



- 14 -
3.11       To improve the quality and supervision of basic health services
and the PHC progras, a comnunications network between the MHLSW and
peripheral healtl units would be developed. The Department of Medical
Services would develop a schedule and protocols for operation of the ystem
of about 30 smal, solar-powered VHF transceivers. Slightly larger units
would be provided at the DMS. the Regional offices and the two bospitals. A
consultant funded under the PPF would design the system and assist in
preparation of specifications (including a list of spare parts), ensuring
training for a local service vendor and preparation of a simple operating
handbook.
3.12      Technical assistance in support of these reforms include 24
person-months of assistance for a health economist/financial analyst to
assist in determining resource implications of policy reforms and to train
staff of the Health Planning Unit. 6 person-months for a hospital management
and finance specialist to assist in the decentralization of hospital
administration, and 16 person-months for a drug revolving fund/inventory
management specialist for the establishment and operation of the drug
revolving fund. Staff training at the MHLSW, in the regional offices,
health centers, and at the village level would be organized to intrrduce and
give guidance on implementation of this plan of reforms. Support for
consulting services, materials, and operating costs will also be provided to
assist the reform process (see Anne% 7).
3.13      New recruitment required to support effective implementation of
those reforms include a personnel officer, five finance officers (one each
for the hospitals and the three regional teams), three finance clerks and
three administrative offliers (one for each regional team) and a senior
bospital administrator f~. RVH. The proposed recruitment is consistent with
the recommendations of t) OSE Study.
3.14      A draft of the k  n of reforms including target dates was
diicussed at negotiations     ..ex 7.2) and it was agreed that submission to
IDA of the agreed plan, including appropriate detailed procedures and
regulations would be a condition of effectiveness, while Cabinet approval of
a schedule of charges and fees for services would be a condition of Board
presentation. Assurances were also obtained that the Government would
implement the plan after its approval by IDA, including makins appropriate
provisions for its implementation in the annual budget. In support of the
plan of reforms and to address the current weaknesses in health sector
planning, budgeting for recurrent costs, and coordinating donor assistance
to the sector, assurances were also obtained that the Government would,
before May 1 eve!r year during the project period, submit to rDA, for review
(a) a rolling three-ear Plan (consistent with the ERPs) for investment and
recurrent expenditures for the health sector (including family planning *nd
nutrition as appropriate) and (b) its annual development and recurrent
budgets for the health sector for the fiscal year immediately following. It
was also agreed that the Plan would be used by the Government as the
framework for all donor assistance to the sector.



- 15 -
(b)  INN   tmtA  to Somme  bies   suith JSO"""
5.15      Primary Healtb Care.  The projeet would ezpand FEC to 53 villages.
including 11 key village eabch with a CUN, in the Western Region. The VUEs
and TMS would be provided each with basic medical equipmet and a bicycle.
The 11 CUs would each receive a sotorcyc''e for use in weekly supervision.
Initial and in-service training for VHWs and TmA in ?RC would be included.
Training in basic principles of management and simple financial accounting
and control would also be provided for selected village developmnt
committee sembers in each village. PHC would also be extended to the peri-
urban areas of Banjul, upon completion of technical assistance for a social
survey and program design, whicb would recommend any changes required in the
organmiation of the PHC program for peri-urban areas. The VHYW would be
supplied with basic equipsent and in-service training.
3.16       To improve integration of PHC with basic health service delivery
and to strengthen the referral system, outreach clinics, including MMC and
faaily planning activities, would be conducted by RHTs in all key villages
and in larger PEC villages. VRWs and TBAs would participate in these
clinics and would be encouraged to rofer patients. Communicable disease
programs would be expanded by providing drugs, laboratory supplies, and in-
service training for about 330 mirses on disease prevention and treatment.
A list of the various training activities under the project is shown in
Annex 8.
3.17      Improvement of Health Facilities.  Lack of budgetary provision for
building maintenance has hastened the deterioration of health facilities and
has increased maintenance costs. To reduce these costs and to provide
facilities which can effectively deliver ainimm standard health services
witb low maintenance costs, the project provides for (a) the rehabilitation
and upgrading of existing buildings at RVH, BH, five healtb centers, and
five dispensaries; (b) minor upgrading of seven healtb centers and seven
dispensariesm and (a) the construction of 12 staff houses, a new health
center for an unserved peri-urban area, and a new polyclinic in Banjul. The
polyclinic would provide general outpatient services to relieve overcrowding
and to enable RVH to function exclusively as a referral facility. The
water, drainage, and electricity syste s at RVY would be improved and
urgently needed structural maintenance and selected facility upgrading.
particularly the pediatric ward and laboratory would be undertaken. At
Bansang hospital an existing but unused ward block would be rehabilitated to
provide a pediatric ward, obstetric ward with delivery rooms, a new
outpatient department incorporating MCH and dental clinics, and, existing
wards, operating rooms, laboratory. X-ray and other depirtaents would be
remodelled. At each facility, refrigeration, emergency lighting and water
heating would be provided (solar-powered where appropriate) and standby
power and water supplies upgraded where neceossary. Furniture and simple
medical and surgical equipment would be provided as required.
3.18      To address The Gambia's extremely high maternal mortality and
morbidity rates, five existing health eenters, selected to be accessible to
the rural areas in each of the regions, would be upgraded and *quioppd as
special MCH centers to deal with obstetrical complications, provide clinical



- 16 -
family planning services and strengthen the referral system. These centers
would be able to manage high rist. pregnancies (including caesarean
sections), rUD insertion, surgical contraception and prevention of
infertility through the control of sexually transmitted diseases. Simple
shelters would be built at each of the five sites to provide accommodation
for women identified as high risk pregnancies prior to delivery. A small
boat would be stationed in three of these centers to ferry emergency cases
across the river. Prior to completion of the centers, five doctors and 10
nurse-midwives would receive in-service training abroad to upgrade their
skills. During the first year of their return to service. two expatriate
obstetrician/gynecologists and five expatriate nurse-midwives would provide
clinical assistance to ensure effective development of the centers and their
staff.
3.19      Nursing Manpower.  To strengthen nurse training, the curricula for
the CHNs and the SENa would be revised and upgraded to incorporate PHC
themes. CHN training would continue to be conducted at Mansakonko where
adequate facilities exist, exposure of students to rural life is maximized,
and clinical practice in villages is more easily arranged. The project
would provide technical assistance for a nurse-tutor (24 person-months) to
assist in curriculum revision and in teaching, training equipment and
materials, and 24 months of foreign fellowships for two CHN nursing
instructors to strengthen clinical and teaching skills.
3.20       SEN training will be transferred from RVH to Bansang hospital
where a school built under a previous IDA-financed education project is
currently being eztended for this purpose. This transfer would complement
the rehabilitation of BE, improve the quality of its staff, and help
increase the supply of nurses in the eastern and rural regions. The project
would provide training materials, equipment, six person-years of technical
assistance (two nurse tutors and one physician), and five person-years of
overseas fellowships to upgrade teaching skills of nursing instructors and
senior nursing staff.
3.21      In-service CRN and SEN training would be undertaken by a team of
three senior nurses trained in family planning, midwifery and nutrition, who
would work with the RHTs. Support for 12 person-months of technical
assistance would permit a physician to join the team to assist in training
in diagnostic and preepription skills.
3.22      Health Education, Nutrition and Family Planning.  The Gambia's
severe and interrelated problems of high fertility, high maternal and child
mortality and morbidity, and widespread malnutrition have proven difficult
for the Government to deal with effectively (paras. 2.01-2.04). The large
number of organizations conducting programs and providing assistance has
strained the Gambia's administrative system. Furthermore, the impact of
this assistance has not been as marked as required. Thus, there is a clear
need for better coordination and focus to these efforts. To initiate thig,
the Government would establish under the Project Implementation Committee a
sub-committee on Family. Health and Nutrition to develop, authorize budgets
for, and supervise a coordinated approach to family planning, family health
and nutrition problems. The sub-committee would assume most of the



- 17 -
functions of the existing sector planning subcommittee on Population within
NIPID. Membership would include representatives of MHLSW 8tid MBPID (the
Permnent Secretaries of which would serve as co-chairmen). the GPPA, the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Women's Bureau, the DMS, the Project
Manager, *nd religious and community leaders. An Executive Secretary would
be appointed who would be responsible for developing and maintaining a
complete inventory of all relevant programs in the Gambia and for issuing a
bi-monthly progress report. The sub-committee would coordinate, review, and
approve detailed plans for these programs before approval of the ainual
budgets, and would oversee the execution of the following activities:
(i)       Development, by the Health Education Unit (HEU), of a systematic.
rolling. two-year work plan for family planning, health and
nutrition.  The HEU would be responsible for developing and
testing family planning, health and nutrition education messages.
The project includes funds for producing and disseminating
materials, technical assistance to develop the initial plan, and
twelve months of foreign fellowships.
(ii)      Integration of various nutrition programs through the development
of a nutrition action program by the Nutrition Unit in MHLSW
(Annex 8). The Nutrition Unit would be provided with funds to
undertake operational research on nutrition interventions which
can be replicated in rural areas. This research would include
food supplement programs for sick children and pregnant and
lactating women, group feeding of nalnourisbxed children, day care
nurseries in villages, communal vegetable gardens, and nutrition
education for men. Arrangements would also be made for an annual
joint workshop on health and nutrition for staff.
(iii)     In-service training in family planning and MCH programa for 10
doctors and 40 nurse-midwives from MHLSW and the GPPA and a study
tour for MIHLSW and GFPA staff to a successful program in another
country;
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Govermnent vould establish
by June 30, 1987 and maintain during the prolect a sub-committee on Family,
Health and Nutrition with terms of reference, membership and authority
satisfactory to ID A. The bi-monthly and annual reports of the sub-committee
would be sent to IDA for comment.
3.24      In accordance with the Government's policy to reduce fertility
levels, the project would strengthen family planning efforts by providing
clinical family planning services at each health center and special MCH
services at the five MCH centers (para. 3.19). Outreach clinics would
provide clinical services at the village level and provide increased support
to TBAs. The Government would cooperate with GFPA in areas where GPPA's
programs are well established. Overall coordination of family planning.
information and education, with emphasis on support to VHWs and more
widespread provision of clnical services would be coordinated by the
subcommittee.



- 18 -
3.25      Monitorlns and Evaluation.  The Spidemiology end Statistics Unit
o: the IWL8S would: (a) review and improve, with technical assistance from
the P". the current health infornotion system, especially in relation to
family planning. health and nutrition needs; ;And (b) develop a five year
action plan to guide the Unit's work during the. project period. Funding for
mid-term and final reviews of project progress is included to cover
operational research and data collsetion needs.
3.26      The project would also support eight person-months of technical
assistance for the preparation and carrying out of mid-term and final
project evaluations. These evaluations would cover progreis in health
policy reforms, particularly on (a) cost recovery measures and the
availability of funds for recurrent ezpanditures. (b) decentralization of
health services, (e) reorganization of the MHLSW. and td) strengthening of
the support systems. The review would also cover progress in the
developmnt of health educatio, nutrition. and family planning, general
project implementation, and its disbursement. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would submit the results of the mid-term
evaluation to IDA by Decmber 31. 1989 and the final evaluation by December
31, 1992.
IT.  sUT COM  AND FmIU
4.01      Prolect Costs.  The total cost of the  project is estimated at
US$20.8 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a foreiln exchange
component of US$17.8 million, or 86 percent of total project cost.
Kstimates are based on September 1986 prices. Project costs by component
and by expenditure cat*gorq are summarized in Tables Irvl and IV.2 (details
in Annez 9).
4.02      Contingencies.  Price contingencies are based on the following
expected rates of increase for both domestic and international priceL: 3
percent for 1987; 1.0 percent for 1988-90; and 3.5 percent for 1991-1992.
No physical or price contingencies were applied to items financed by bila-
teral donors as the total value of their financing package has already been
fixed. Tf improved engineering or contract estimates imply higher costs for
donor-financed civil works, the relevant donor and the Government would
agree on a reduction in the scope of work or additional donor financing.



- 19 -
Table I.  - PROJECT COSTS BY HKPENITURE CATEGORY
(MLASIS '000               (U9  '000)                    X lotal
Z Foreign  1@#
Local   ftuisn  Total       Local ?ovei*n   Total   Exchde   Costs
I. 1ESTeNT COSTS
A. CIVIL WM
-IV-{ti                         13,#99.4 55fu.0 0i84i   142.1  b36.t %3*.9 -    A                     4
2. FI NE A19 EIUMIII             4#OOW;  16v0Q4.0  20,031.0   53.4  233.8  2467.2            80       14
3. MCIEC1UL SEWlCts                    -  630*4.5  6390.5         -   850.9   8509          100        4
Sub-Tot  CIIL IWM                  175.4 78,275.  96,271,0  203962 109422,0 12,919.0            81       65
I. EW1P11                              15.6  5i197.8  5w213.4      2.1   692.1   694.2         100       4
C. V9ICLEB                                -  2,955.2  2955.2         -   393.5   393.5         100        2
De UHCAL IMIS?MICE
1. LOCAL COA8ULTANTS               437.9        -    4379    58.3          -    5B.3          -        0
2. FOEIS MCONSULITS                    - 169040.0 164040.0        - 2,135.8 213.2           too      11
bTatal 1EUMII     MS1TANCE            437V 1U.0#4.0 16P477.9    58.3 2,135.9 24194.1            97      '1
E. TUIWNZ
1. DIEIE IRAIM                     5M.4         -    535,4    71.3         -    713           -        0
2. FIIN FELLOVSRPS                     -  3398.5  3J398.5         -   452.5   452.5         too       2
3. STU-Y TOM                                210.6    210.6        -    28.0    28.0         t00        0
.Su-Tol ITAlNINI                     534   1609.1  4,144.5    71.3         4.6   5519           817      3
F.e IAI.LS                            113   1,649.   1,841.1    25.5   219.7   245.2           9A .
S. DWMS An  RDM  SW^M                    - 14,072.7 14*072.7         - t1873.9  1.873.9        100      10
N. OERATIONS FSEC                     254.0    254.0      07.9    33.8    33.8    67.4          50       0
I. M= JET P      !N FMIUTY            30,4  21 0.64  3#004,0    40.0   360.0   400*0           90        2
Total TWTIN  CaT                     19,.2 124,757.5 1446487.7 2.627.2 16,412,2 19,2394            6       9
II. REIOtENT COS
A. SIML.IEO                        1,343.7        -  1343.7   17.9           -   1i789          -       I
S. FUL                                      1430.0  if.6m.0         -   218.1   21t.1         100       1
Total M WT    gT                       1,93417   1,3.0  2,0.7   179.9   218.1   397.0              55 2
Totl ASUE COTS                        21,073.9 126,195.5 147t469#4  2,86.1 16,3.3 19#&3.4          86      t00
Phusinca tCtingrcis                    208.7  1,184.0   1472.6    384    1577    194.1                    I
Price Contingnies                     73.8   6,237.?  6476.4    9.4    30.6    m.o               a        5
Total PJCT COSTS                       22,101.3 1n;817.1 15591.4  2v942.9 17,818.5 20,761.4         86     106
======== = ........................=   = =   ===== =
OmWit 11996 1r.0



- 20 -
Table IV.2 - PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
CIALASIS '000)                    /US5 '000)                         2 Total
----------------------------   -------------------------  2 For,iso   Ino
Local    ForeiUn   Total          Local  Forlegn   total    Excha            Costs
..:.:.rs   .s::.z.s  333fl2    :31*331 1353:::: :::'ZIS:  ::.3353    wan..-
A. IEII  TO STWJI6fl            HEALTH SECTOR  WArGEHENT.
FI1  I AN  SUPPORT  SYSTEMS
1.  Cfcrm  7EFOlS                                                        16573.7   34671.6   5i252.3    21S.6    469.8    69.4                   70         4
2. 81 S       IIDIUL SUPLIES                                               105.6  14.404.7  1510.3           14.1  1918.1  1932,1                9S        10
- - i      MCIlS MN SW CItWS                                                      82.7  4081.6  5,064 3    11.0  663.3  674.3 1                                  3
4. UltH E RADIO SYSTEN M                                                            21.04   2 140.4                   u25.0    3s.o             100         I
1bTotal REFORS TO STRE116THEI HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT.
F1ICE AND SLPPORT SYSTEMS                                                1.762.0  25M205.2  269967,2    234.6  3.354.2  3.590.8                  93        18
S. ITIENtENIIIN HEALTH SERVICES
. . ................
1. MITL EXTENSION OF VILLAGE HEALTH SERVIMS                                197.4   14320.3   19525,7         26.3    176.9    203.2              87         1
2. NATEPAAL  CAE MND FF IN1TIAT1ES                                        310.5   7,072.9   7,383,4         41.3    941.8    963.1              it         5
3. STITIENtIN   TURI710N SERVICES                                          223.6      212.2       435.8       29.8      28.3      S   0          49         0
4. WEALTH   OCATI0N                                                        254.4   1*105.5   1.359.9          33,9     147.2    111.1            81         1
5.  SM   TMlIT                                                                  -   7,300.2   7.300,2            -     7n.1      972.1          100         5
6.  I11I6  AND EVALUATION                                                   41.8        41.8       83.6        5.6       5.6      11.1           50         0
7. NAILITATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES                                     17,937.0  78,138.6  96,075.7  2388 .4 10,404.6 120793.0                  8l        65
3. PI.CT   IWiA    ENI UNIT                                                  46.8   3M.W1   3,333.9            6.2    437.7    443.9             99         2
.... ..   -- . -----     -- - - -  -- - -   -- -- -    -- -- -  -- - - -    -------...........
1m-Toal STRENGTHENING HEALTH SERVICES                                      194011 .5  91,486.7 117,41.1  2,531.5 13 114.1 154645.6                 84        80
C. IEPAT    T OF PPF                                                           300.4   20703.6   3 4004.0        40.0    360.0    400.0             90         2
...    -    -- - - -    -- - - -  -- -  -    -- -- -   -- -- -   ---- ---    ....    ........
Toal DSELINE COSTS                                                           214073.9 126l 395.5 147,469.4  2*806.1 16*830.3 19,63.4                  86       100
Phwsical Cortinscies                                                          288.7   l184.o   1*472.6          38.4     157.7    196.1            80         1
Paict Cantinrncls                                                           738.8   6,237.7   6.976.4          98.4    830.6    9290              89         5
Totl FMM=T COSTS                                                             22*101.3 133*817.1 155,9184  2942.9 17,I18.5 209761.4                    86        106
.a:3;   ::::::::     :::::::.:    ::::''      :;z :  ::::25:   :::n::::,:::
Ns-IP 1, 1916  13 01
4.03                  Financing.  The project will be financed by IDA (SDR 4.7 million
or US$5.6 million equivalent), the Government of Italy (US$9.6 million
equivalent), the Government of The Netherlands (US$2 million equivalent),
ODA (US$0.9 million eq'iivalent), *net the United Nations Capital Development
Fund (UNCDF) (US00.4 million). An additional US$1.3 million equivalent
would be provided from the Governament's budgetary allocations and from
surpluses accruing to the Revolving Fund. Agreement between the Government
of the Gambia and the Government of Italy has been ezecuted. Project
assistance from ODA and UNCDF forms part of ezisting agreements with the
Government. It was agreed at negotiations that the conclusion of cofinancing



- 21 -
*rrangement with The Netberlands woul. be a condition of credit
effectvenoess. rt was also agreed that the Govern ent would pursue its
discussion with China on funding the rehabilitation of RVH amounting to
about US$1.0 millions if financing for this component does not become
available, the component would be deleted from the project.
Table IV.3 - FINANCING PLAN
(US$ '000)
TbA     UNIE1 3I81       I         tT C HI" 4THEkLMS Wu UKCF   60V      E FuWO     louI                Lol
............~ ........  ........ ....... ...-...-......      ---    --------  --------- ........  (ExOI  PJ. 
Abetu   I l   iot  I   AM,2  t  7   "Mt I   Mbow    I   Aeaot I   4cat    I   A.a,t           I For. Excl. Taxes)   Tao.s
z.. -3 A.l   ....:a  5 33: :   :5 =.      ...-:   a..            ....::; ;;  aa... .....  ...; a  55   ...5;
A. IIL iom                  963.1  9.9    74.1  0.8 0a2130 63.8  90. 7 10.2    -   -  409.4 4.   1 M 5.6  111  9,744.7 4i.9   7.79.6 1.948.1
8    IF    UsTM   AEdEUI ICI  10.8  5.2             - - 553.0 94                     -      - '                  2.493i 11.0    2 55.2   536..
C .UITCTUA K1918 ES            11.3  7.3   79, 7927         - -4 -2.2  4.2                                                       U2.2
O. Kbipw(lu                   381.1  51.5           -   285. 0 384             74 . 10.1                -          741.4  3.i     739.1    213
-bIaIE                         455.4 100.0 .         .        .         .        ..                      -          455.4  2.2     455.4
F. LIIUCML  ITAtS              45.4 10.0         -..           .      .5.4  0.3                                                           65.4
6. FEI64 CtSIMS0            1.451.7 70*i            --                         -.5 294                           2,33102 11.3   2.374,2
11. IlIVIOE WOIIOC  .        .        .        .        .        .        .    7.1 8.8               7311  91.'    80.1  0.4         -   80.1
I, FPUlP N ILLUIPI            248.2 5U0   .       .      .       .       . 211.0 44.        -   -       -    -   4791  2.3       429.1      -
J, OtU  low                   31.0 1000                                                      -               -    31.0  0.1      31.0
K. ITIIAOLS                   245.7 100.0                                                                          265.7  1.3     239.2   2.5
L. 11      E0IC'. SPtIES      411.2 29.0            -   50 0 2317             994. 47.2                          2 105S' 10.1   ' 105.9     -
0, OPMil1 KEIAK               74.4 100.0                 -                                         -               76,4  0.4     398.    32.8
N. M.Ct RPAIIO       FtILL0I  40.0 100,0      -0---                              -   -                        -     0,    L               4f
0. 11MIES                                            -     -     -          -           -      -   204.0 10.0 o    94.90  13             0 '
P. FL                         218.1 100.0           -            .      .     .      .     .     .      .     .2- 11   1          181
.. ...    .. .  ..   . . .                                                      .   .   . . .    ..  .  - - --   - --... ........ .  .  ..........
Total 011894WUflt            5,5n2.1 1 4.t   8738  42 9.5 513 4a.0  9908. 7 4.8  .973.7 9.5  439.4  ,o~  i..9   6.09 48100.3  17018.5  ,942,9
~~~~~.   ;. ..  . .. ..  .....    . ......  .    .. ..                                               .....    .    .    .    .... ....   .. ...  . ... ... .
. 198  13102
4.04             An indicative assessment of total sources and applications of
funds for the health sector is presented in Annex 10 which shows the
recurrent cost implications of the project. Assuming that the Government
budgetary resources for the health sector are only kept constant in real
terms, IDA and bilateral funding an4 the improved cost recovery systems will
cover the balance of all recurrent health expenditures during the project
period. After the project period, end taking into account all incremental
recurrent costs, the health sector's financial flows will approximately
balance needs and resources if the Government ensures that the cost recovery
efforts are made to work. Fee income to the revolving fund is projected to
total D 9.0 million in 1991/92 without allowance for gains in efficiency as
e*pected from the reform program. Without the project, many of the



- 22 -
estimated recurrent costs would still have to be net by the Government.
With the project, enhanced cost recovery will result in the health Sector
being much less of a fiscal burden to Government than it is now.
4.05      Status of Proiect Preparation.  An advance of U8$400,000 under the
Project Preparation Facility was approved by IDA to finance a series of
studies including finance and management, vehicle saintenace and fuel
requirements, und nurse training. These studiks have been completed and
their findings have been incorporated in the design of the project.
4.06      Work is underway for civil works being  !inanced by Italy
(rehabilitation of nome units at RVH. Bansang. two health centers and the
new poly-linic). For other civil works. ODA would strengthen the United
Kingdom Projects Office (UKPO) in Banjul. The UKPO would olso undertake the
training of 4-6 architectural technicians based in the Ministry of Works.
Additional support of US$50,000 equivalent would be required from the
project by the UKPO to cover the costs of two vehicles and consultant
services for the final preparation and printing of bills of quantities.
Work on the site plana and building and services surveys for Bansaug
Hospital and the health centers have been completed by consultants financed
from the African Development Fund.
4.07      Organizational Management.  The project would be implemented under
the auspices of a Project Implementation Committee (PIC). chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MHLSW who will also act as Project Z'oordinator.
Other members of the PIC would include the Permanert Secretaries of NEIID.
and of Finance, staff of the President's Office. the Director of Medical
Services, the Project Manager. and a representative of the GFPA. The
project would be implemented on a day-to-day basis through the line units of
the MHLSW under the coordination of a Project Management Unit (PHU)
responsible to the Project coordinator. The PMU would consist of a Project
Manager and Deputy Project Manager, a project accountant, and clerical
support. This unit would be responsible for all project matters, including
the preparation of annual work programs and budgets for project components.
procurement of goods and arrangements for technical assistance, processing
of credit withdrawal applications, and preparation and submission to IDA of
progress reports. The project vould provide equipment, materials, technical
assistance, and salary support for a project manager.
4.08      Procurement.  Equipment, vehicles, drugs and medical supplies to
be financed by IDA would be procured under international competitive bidding
(ICE) following Bank Guidelines (see Asinez 11.1). Items would be grouped
into bid packages to encourage competition and bulk procuresent. Local
monufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference of 15 percent. or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids.
Procurement of items cnd group. of items estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate of US$1.0 million equivalent.
may be through: (a) contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
quotations invited from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines or (b) by direct purchase wbere justified by the need for
standardization. Prior IDA review of contract awards would include all
contracts of $100.000 equivalent or ac:e. Sample post reviews of smaller



- 23 -
contracts would be carried out during supervision missions. Selection of
technical assistance consultants would be carried out in accordace* with
Bank Group Guideline. on the use of consultants.
4.09      DisbureDmetso.  Tho credit would be disbursed against the
following items, net of tazes:
a)   100 percent of the coot of civil worka;
b)   100 percent of the cost of equipment and vehicles:
c)   100 percent of the cost of drugs and medical supplies;
d)   100 percent of the cost of materials and fuel;
e)   100 percent of the cost of consulting services, technical
assistance, fellowships. and operational researchb and
(f) repayment of the project preparation facility advance.
4.10      Withdrawal applications to rDA would be grouped into packages of
at least US$50.000 equivalent and would be fully documented. bxcept for
ezpenses related to project administration, operational research costs.
fellowships and contracts of less than US$25,000 equivalent. These expenses
would be reimbursed against certified statements of ezpenditure, for which
documentation would be retained for review by IDA supervision missions and
by the project auditors. Annex 11.2 shows the estimated schtdule of
disbursements. The project would be impleoented over a period of five
years. It is expected to be completed by June 30. 1992 with a closing date
of December 31, 1992.
4.11      Special Accounts.  To avoid the need for Government to prefinance
ezpenditures eligible for financing iron the IDA Credit, an ai.Punt of
US$400,000 would be advanced to a Special Account to be maintained in
U.S.Dollars in the Central Bank of The Gmbia on terus and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The Account would be under the control of the Project
Director and would cover about three months of the highest eotimated level
of project ependitures. In order to ensure that the Government's
counterpart financing is promptly available, the Government would establish
in a coi_ercial bank a separate rep enishable Project Account in local
currency of about U8$20,000 equivalent. It was agreed at nemotiations that
opening of this Prolect Account and depositing the initial amount would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
4.12      Accounts and Audits.  It was egreod at negotiations that the
revolving fund (par&. 3.08), the special account (para. 4.11), and all
project accounts to be maintained by PMU would be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of tho audited accounts would
be forwarded to IDA for review within six sonths after the end of each
fiscal year. A separate audit of all amounts withdran on the basis of
Statesents of Ezpenditure would be forwarded to IDA within 90 days of the



- 24 -
close of each fiscal year and prior to the replenishment of the Special
Account for any subsequent period. Quarterly reports on the progress of
project implementation would be submitted to IDA. A project completion
report would also be submitted to IDA within six months of the closing date.
V. PROJECT DRIWFITS AND RISKS
5.01      Benefits.  The project will extend PHC services in one presently
underserved region and in the periurban areas of Banjul. Strengthening of
health servicei will offer low cost health care and disease prevention to
many who do nct now have it. Decause adequate baseline health and fertility
data are unavailable, it is difficult to predict and quantify the expected
health and fertility impact of the project. The monito-ing and evaluation
component will provide baseline data during the project, thus providing a
basis for discerning trends. Nevertheless, it is expected that the project
would improve health status through better maternal and child care, more
effective communicable disease control programs, and through greater use of
family planning and nutrition services.
5.02      The proposed policy reforms aimed at strengthening health sector
management, finance, and support systems will encourage better use of scarce
resources, increased responsiveness to local needs, and greater financial
accountability. Through the introduction of cost recovery measures, the
project is expected to gradually reduce subsidies to and generate revenues
for the health sector. By establishing clearer priorities for inNestments
in the health sector, the project will provide a framework for better use of
foreign assistance.
5.03      Risks.  The main risk of the project is related to the level of
sustained Government support to the sectoral reforms proposed under the
project, particularly those referring to cost recovery measures. Failure to
improve cost recovery would make the project recurrent costs unaffordable
and would destroy the credibility of the health system if drugs and supplies
are not readily availabl~. The Government's strong commitment to undertake
these reforms provide reasons to be optimistic about the success of the
project. Technical assistance and a large amount of project-related
training are also provided to minimize this risk. A shortage of foreign
exchange could make it difficult for the Government to guarantee the
cunvertibility of the Dalasi and thus ensure the operation of the revolving
fund. However, the Government has clearly demonstrated its determination to
redress internal and external financial imbalances and to maintain a
flexible exchange rate. The economic program it has embarked upon is being
supported by an IM? Standby and IDA's Structural Adjustment Credit.



- 25 -
VTX* ALM      pinT3MA U&W  W RUUUI t          IO
An.  TiOemnl8
6.01      Duriag nejotiation the following assurances vere obtained from the
Government that it would:
(a)  ensure that there is at all times in the revolving fund
sufficient amounts to meet the costs of drugs and medtcal
supplies; provide foreign exchange required for its efficient
operation; undertake to pay into the fund amounto lost from
sovements in the rates of exchange between local and foreign
currencies; and use the surpluses accruing to the Fund, excluding
surpluses from exchange rate movements. for funding of other
project components (pars. 3.08);
(b)  undertake that its recurrent budget expenditure on health, as a
percentage of the Government's total recurrent budget expenditure
(exclusive of debt service), would be maintained at not less than
the 1985/86 recurrent budget expenditure levels (para. 3.08);
Cc)  implement the plan of reforms after its approval by IDA, including
making appropriate provision for its implementation in the annual
budget (para. 3.14);
(d)  submit to IDA before May 1 every year during the project period
Ci) * rolling three-year Plan, consistent with the URPs, for
investmert and recurrent expenditures for the health sector and
(ii) the annual development and recurrent budgets for the health
sector for the fiscal year immediately following (para. 3.14);
(e)  ensure that the Plan would be used as the framework for all donor
assistance to the sector (par&. 3.14);
(f)  establish by June 30, 1987 and maintain during the project period.
a sub-committee on Family. Health and Nutrition with terms of
reference, membership and authority satisfactory to IDA (para.
3.23); and
(g)  carryout and sulait to IDA the results of a mid-term evaluation of
;be project by December 31, 1989 and a final evaluation of the
project by December 31, 1992 (pars. 3.26).
6.02      Condition of Board Presentation.  It vas agreed at negotiations
that Cabinet approval of a schedule for drug charges and fees for servicea
would be a condition of Board presentation (para, 3.14).



-26-
6.03      Coditions of Ifftctiwoness.  The following conditions of credit
*ffmctivene.s were &gread upon at negotiation.:
(a)  submssion to IDA of a sectoral reform plan, satisfactory to IDA,
including appropriate procedures and regulations (para.3.14):
(b) ezecution of cofinancing agreement with The Netherlands (para.
4.03); and
(c) establishment of the Project Account and depositing therein the
initial amount of US$20.000 equivalent (para. 4.11).
6.05      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA cretdit of SDR4.7 million ($5.6 million
*quivalent) at the standard terms and conditions.



- 27 -
Annex 1.1
Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data
A.   General Country Data
1:   Total Area (sq. km)  *...............................  11,000
2.   Total population - (mid-1983 lstiate) (millions)              0.7
3.   GNP per capita, US Dollars (1983)  ................           290
B.   Population Data
1.   Population Density (per sq. km) (1983)  .... ........          64
2.   Urban Population (S) (1983)                                    30
3.   Annual Rate of Natural Increase (1985)  ......100...           3.5
4.   Total Fertility Rate (1984)       ........ ..     ......      6.5
5.   Crude Birth Rate per 1.000 (1985)  ......55
6.   Crude Death Rate per 1.000 (1985)                              20
C.   Health and Nutrition Data
1.   Life Expectancy at Birth (1984) (years'                        42
2.   Infant Mortility Rate per 1.000 (1973).                       217
3.   Maternal Mortality Rate per 1.000                              10



- 28 -
Annex 1.2
Page 1 of 1
Definitions
Child Death Rate            : The number of deaths among children 1-4 years
of age per 1.000 children in the same age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate            : The number of live births per year per 1.000
people in a given year.
Crude Death Rate            : The number of deaths per year per 1.000 people
in a given year.
Incidence Rate              : The number of persons contracting a disease in
a population during a specified period of
time. Usually expressed as the number of
cases per 1.000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate       : The number of death6 of infants under 1 year
of age in a given year per 1.000 live births
during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth       Number of years a newborn child would live if
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate    : The number of maternal deaths per 1,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy and childbearing complications.
Morbidity                    : The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Prevalence Rate              : The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per 1.000
population at risk.
Rate of Natural Increase   : Difference between crude birth and crude death
rates; usually expressed as a percentage of
the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate        ; The average number of children that would te
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific fertility
rates of a given year; serves as an estimate
of average number of children per family.



- 29 -
Annex 1.3
Page 1 of 1
TM ,IIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENC PROJECT
Documents and Data in The Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to The Health Sector
A.1 World Bank. Basic Needs in The Gambia. December 1981.
A.2 World Health Organization. Health Resources Group for Primary
Health Care. Country Resource Utilization Revie,. December 1984.
A.3 MHLSW, National Primary Health Care Review. 1985.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relatina to The Project
B.1  Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
Activity Completion Report No. 032/85. Preinvestment Report on
Solar Photovaltaic Applications in The Health and
Telecommunications Sectors. March 1985.
B.2 Mauburay. Homodou Kunta, Transport Study of the MHLSW, October,
i985.
B.3 United Medical Enterprises, Management and Financial Study.
February. 1986.
B.4 The Government of The Gambia. Health Sector Development Project
Proposal. November. 1985.
B.5 Berg. Alan, Notes on Nutrition in The Gambia. August. 1985.
B.6 McCormack. Carol. Report on Socio-Anthropological Study of Rural
Society in The Gambia, September, 1985.
B.7 Edwards. Paula. Proposalat for Nurse Training for The Health
Services in The Gambia. Dticember. 1985.
B.8 Cipfa Services Ltd., Drug Revolving Fund, July, 1986.



-30 -
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 3
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Family Planning in The Gambia
1.        The Gambia Family Planning Association (GPPA) and the Ministry of
Helth, Labor and Social Welfare (MHLSW) are the two main providers of
family planning services. GFPA began to provide services in 1969, while
MHLSW services started with this decade.
2.        The Gambia Family Planning Association Program.  GlPA provides
services through 7 clinics. 83 satellite (itinerant) clinics. 60 eo.munity-
based agents (mostly female), and 12 medical agents (mostly ex-dresser
dispensers operating pharmacies). Contraceptives are provided free in the
clinics, where there is a registration fee, but are sold by the community
and medical agents, who retain half of the selling price. Clinics provide
the IUDs, orals, injectable. and conventional contraceptives (condoms, foam
etc.). while comunity and medical agents distribute mainly orals and
condoms, and in sose cases (mostly medical agents), injectables and the rUD.
Women requesting tubal ligation are referred to the Royal Victoria Hospital
(RVH) or to private physicians. Service statistics for 1985 appear below:
New Acceptors and Continuing Contraceptive Users.
by Method, GFPA, 1985
Method                    New            Continuing            Total
Acceptors            Users
Orals                    1922               2059               3981
Injectables               640                538               1178
Condoms                   290                350                640
IUD                       184                149                333
Other                     300                313                613
Total                    3336               3409               6745



- 31 -
Anne  2.1
Page 2 of 3
3.        MHLSW Family Planning Services. MHLSW provides services through
hosp:ltals and health centers and provides condoms through the village-based
PEC program (village bealth workers re--supply condoms, and traditional birth
attendants, orals). The Royal Victoria Hospital is the predominant clinical
service point, for whicb service statistics follow%
Current Contraceptive Userg,
by Method, Royal Victoria Hospital, 1984-1985
Method                    1984                       1985
Orals                     3879                       4001
Injectable.               1533                       1900
IUD                       1158                        966
Condoms                    356                        176
Total                     6926                       7043
4.        Family planning services have been available in MHLSW health
centers. dispensaries and through the village-based system only for the past
few years. Incomplete service statistics for 1985 are:
Current Contraceptive Users, by Method and Region,
MHLSW 1985
Method           Western       Central       Eastern       Grand Total
Oral                336             7          194            537
IUD                   2             1           23             26
,njectables         249           10            51            310
Total               587            18          269             874
5.        The data above indicate that at least 14,662 Gambian women were
current users of family planning in 1985, assuming that there is no double-
counting between propraus and institutions. This total does not iaclude
those wbo obtain faa:ly planning in the private sector (other than from
community and medical agents), acceptors of tubal sterilization (an



- 32 -
Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 3
indeterminate number are performed at RVH and in the private cector), and
those using traditional methods (breast feeding, rhythm. abstinence.
withdrawl). Data are not available to provide an accurate denominator of
women in the reproductive age group. However, assuming that the current
population is 730.000, and applyirg the Dryfooa/Polgar/Varky formula, we
crudely estimate the denominator can be roughly estimated at 104.000 women
in the reproductive age group. This gives a very conservative estimate of
current modern contraceptive use as 14 Z of eligible couple.



33                                     Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 1
The G&OU
timlHats  Devehm. Pre
Hea&t Staw  Exmso      os, I7/Uso - 1IIM
1979/80 19BO/81 1981 82 1982/83 1983/84 1994/85 1985/86
reeqarnt             101    1.51    1.36    1.5    180    2.01    2.06
devsebIoQnWt         0.04                            0.04
sitotal              1 05    151    1.36    1.5   184    2.01    2.06
Hsital
revtgrent            4 21    4.09    3.80    4.09    4.93    4 92    5 35
do0.Iopwo0t 0.25    099    1 49    0.5    0.14    3.05    1.30
subtotal            4446    5.08    529    4.94    5.07    7.97    6.65
tICs sd VHS
rgcurrnt                     1 06    1.10    0.98    2.37    2.74    2.94
deeopwnt             08el    07S    0.89    2.26    1.90    3.65    412
subtotal             O.al    1.85    1 .99    3.24    4.27    6.39    7 06
%osIa1l Sorviem
recurrMt             0.94    1 44    1.49    1.65    1,16    1.07    1.09
"ubtotal             0.94    I.44    1.49    1.65    1.16    1.07    1.09
Roarsh sod Trainm*
rwurrnt              0.14    0 10    0.14    019    033    033    03 
deve1Oprnt
sutotal              0.14    0.10    0.14    0.19    0.33    0.33    0.35
Total roswrvot        6.30    8 20    7.89    8.46   10.59   11 .07   11 .79
Total dovols,m.t      1.10    1.78    2.38    3.11    2.08    670    5.42
Brae  Total           7.40    9 918  10 27   11.57   12.67   1 7.77   17,21
The Gamb, Health Sector Expenditwt,                     The GOmbia, H*41th Sector Expw,di*urs,
1979/W-1965/96                           ~~~~~~~1979/80-1965/86
OjiwIs             1ln/0-98%8
milliins
12.00                                                  100.00
10.00                                      .            90.00
90.00
8.00                                                   70.00
60.00
6.00                                                   50.00
4.00                                                   40.00
30.00
2.00                                                   20.00
OW                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.00                       -
0.90     1961 1962  1963  1984  1960  1996600 1960  1961 1962  1963  1964  1965  1986
ITlr.sw mnt        Total dre"  Twt                       T-Ua dvo"* wnt * Total rwarn



- 34 -
#Mg 3.
P&'e I of 2
NATIONAL HELTH DEVEOPSM PROJECT
Th GM6" - 111wrIt kigit. NeaIb 3bti., 1 16-07
ktatlu         1911/64 194/0  1/3   19
Walk           I"XA1 1/34   1841U 1195/86  1964117                       A.tas Aetuals   stlftes
hafte   b"to Ltfft                                                (b 64A         '06)
sat1_l           302.10    1.Y4   39940       31"  0     5Ul4             332.30    42364   10to       122 30
e 1bnsal.          0o0o     o0       I 00       200      vt rmSw            330       I9"     100        100
Alm~              3.20    4144    60 10  * 10            A MW              6190     41 99    79s        7930
Traw LA            3.90     317      100        I05      Trw.ELip.         1170      5.2    12.00       16.00
WA.ON1*             Io      714    tO0         1200      LastoW            2190       4 a    to0o        0ow
v.MSbOI           $730    27 79    2130        3100      pul Fewi          41 70 7o   . 14    700m     1005-
craftis.A.          105      IC0     100        100      h%pAlrSgsup    "90    7M.79   2503            1710
CNO.W            367.00    9170    2310       32 10      OvW M.3wpu    44.20    67.6    so300           is0
3*tuui           759Go0   1047   on3t0        61160      MW.0ff5            OO       *.21     3J00       430
vib   am          260 1J4O    3    4"43        147
ITvwt Ibit                                               tt_is" MSUa.       *10      1Si      SAM        7J0
klir             26460    267 49   27 60      23360      fr.At  W.         200   3MI         20.00      3005
"bwug             71 0     7449    01 70      6 94      Ip. 1t11plu.       $770      13    230a         3000
TrawIIa.           ISO    4647       100        000       WtM             7930   I.3 1 :046.90    13*I1
1_"M               6.9t1     4.95    7 00      7?1
1_t              160.40    39.3   331 s       33074      Obvi.t  _ f
sa4ws              4.30    611$   6900        IC1 I
"DWSod  d NA_                                                              3.30       63     3.10       30t60
sairim           250.70    259.09   ZI10      25168      TrtL- E.S                    919    60CO       70310
A.bwi             1710     46t0    4310       6U15       Mt"AW11            2.70     49       600        9.05
OvgUwlON          277 0     000      010        010      Y*W05l4           2140      21$0    lo3g       344
Trw E.             2JO      I 34     300       1.00       *lta             t4J0    11314   30A0       2H691
_bdwwAp            O 00     016      1 00       100
L&VI               03M      3r3I     I 00       I 00     *eIS Cms
POiTu WE43        1030      614        00       900      S41iru          101670   119442  121020    14094
;__AN _Mt         12.70     005      000        0.00    'wow 16.ds         1040       21      2.30       :30
V.sOtM            13.70    1465    12.60       1420      AtlIwm           122.70    1399"  174 30      10.42
*wagw08i          4*!O      124    12260       22110     TrwelE            1710    2754    400G         1000
_m. _memm          000    21407   200O00      305OO      Unbs              1?710       " 9    O9Xt       13aO
stud 'l m00                 00 000    300  23000    23390  P~tlsMrS        3170    131        o 000     6005
3.*btai          70.30    1674   1104so        9: is    Or   Afrnzwi      16900    21400   21400       32100
O   rP'si. Spws    i3 70    27 90    so 00     7905
I4WM emep.sgeqwd                                         PeNMu41b           1oo      14:     20 00      3 sO
5Ug               42.10     4497    3.60        19        w PjOfLa 090                1 74    200        100
Anwaw              7 70     .3.0    :996       :9916      " V4UOAM         a06 9o:t09   '10 00         '9230o
Trglbe.            a 000    0am      020        00     Ornwsjgrqg.    4420    Q0   '0000              12305
rts.ffZ            43       714      100        7s      Eums tPh.          31 6      10 05   0T        1100
-tsea             1440    40664        670     5719             %pl.qh w   :00       700    l000 'O105
sub-1tSte       IU2140   191731  2=20    249666
suriw           2107.00  2 3109  2731 0    2303         "|@e|           s ad SWj 
Va_LsJ.d           4.10    4945      1 00       I0c 00    Ip.              43 so     99"60   14940     43t
_ftwamw          410.70   17494   37.20      170.94     Vapg**LAW          2710      S1o      2.0        2J0
T:.,g,.            400      2.U       05        7 30 A*bw_                 1010     749    170        1700
_m                U23.90    1990    20.00      20.00     r,rq b.           2100       0.14    32.00     370
PIlhkm gP        30    24427   2200          40000         1                 05      7 Is     .05        f
blwlr             MM       U.9"    30O0       500        cl0   &b'uS       12310     105   130-05       MM
0bft3*40.s        3^70    =Jo   I1G00         2400       O,  lst SON"        1.7     u        ISO       =.
MWAW.E1            2JO      1.0    *1r0         905      MNe.OW            2530       in      2.0        3,05
v_10111           3,10      is-     1900       2411      V*Mb bOU            2.30    294    110.40      3 4
i      m     .    12.00     1997    30.00       000      fwM        .      22.10       00      2.00      '30
Om SW Wm          I 7.70 7  233     30.0       344       M-*d              122      2".94   6.40       61709
-                  33    12123      2 300      30.00
_noom bpl         low        $43    1        44 370
IONWAI       3.16   40826  4199.20    472.M



35 -                                       Ame  3.2
Ps8 2 of 2
TER GUAA
NATIONAL H1EALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Th lm*ia - tw.got bets, N4.,I  S.t0r, 164-67
O &tl      19U/64 164/3   16/U   193/07                    .et.,1         112/34 194/U  I9/    193/37
A_W   ASUO           "                                         ASb   Asul   s*.t
(h hilu  DS)                                                   tb SaW 10)
Cmi~~~~~~~~~~~ MealS~~~~(bblw    0ot
I.IW_            42370    42        1400      36547                   h   ASIS  fw NeC
VqWI~  AAW       Moto0  3i . 71   33000       2w              344.4b           I963/34  1964/3  11653   In/MM
AIbwmu            49 90     47 77    4930      49 01
Tr",,O.           2900      1713    1500       2000           sdlwvs              49.22  "II164   43397  4792.6
U fai O  I so  0 00   I 30       I so          vapuMs~Lin           =2.!   3M229    340!3        211
W       "w          1        00i      I        15           C ,i  sutge              0    10o          1       2
No" P,%wm          4,0      IO."    1100        1450          Aibw_                 M0.9   547 "     12094   123
MStMewb Ib         00       109       Soo 4500                Teawel L              117.6  116.0      191 *   243.2
,emob am           Gi2      1225    is00        1921               WS        O              590         Go       7%
.S0 Im P          000       0 72 o00 n50                     Lbwv                     a      us          I        I
twwaSPwih.          1.70     500      100       750                                 102wg  2   37492    M        us4
shbe"W           6250   IZ33    77960         7*s70           0nap08rwup           1465   11794        I0O      1471
cohw Mm. $011110     lnJ    M."          27!    41235
Pi" _Vs"                                              P~QImcm s'.w          175      121        A        75
3uIw'             32.00     416t   590         62.45            " 1.lMegru'b           0    10.38       II 'i     5
howean            i( ISO    170    2710        27n0 M         *-,% iwT               III     1650
Tr" .Ea,            I190     ' 37     4 00      4 00          T4ae"Aw                 SA     12-33       0      22.
tfw ,              2O a2      00      250       2.50            "O    m3    440                        45    74.2
C          |     301o10     2500    21.00      1750           rodAUtan               12.7    0.00        0         0
mmfleb             42        008    to000       1O               2"3 3M3                     IST      1723   4643
WMMe.Ff5           0.70      2 02     2 50       371             wt a                ,1.   1a.75      1296   141.
-01b am            750      1275    1500        1923            Eaw1Pw.              1644    2144       27      4tl
ppAm mem           I 00     0530     ' 00       i so         1p.tkplA               377U6  3331        40      475
9". _tAS.          a2J c 70 100  Soo                          Sl% 'tIAhw           391 70  4M10    4"0M   23390
t_.I             SuI.   00    50      500 tO5 41              O     Or L             I 00     t   Q O '00       I 00
3434    12354   1.2 10       19741          C                    3470c bt1 "C  * 70   2n10 l    10
V"W Cm&*1 Us*                                                'fetalIRSgewFP!C.t    '01414  0957 137    14 23  271,21
soup"             a0Go 102.69    9250           40            5tgIw               4154 6   714301    "O4   p342
Mhv~              2100    1930    2100         2101             -uI                          3       3794  3471 7  4436,"
Trwo go.           000       0.11    0 M        0.71
WON"            200      140t    5O0        5 00
m4m orlob         12.1      1500    20Uc       30 0
MW*AS              0M        an       I 00      iSO
IOWA* Ok           2.10      S.!    *410        * l
gom  "on           0.00      044     2.00       3 00
to_  r_w.          o.o       o7      6 adX      t oo
9 90     17       40         900s Q
133 0    15109   15430       17234
*e1W              45 70     4090    6fi0      a.!
AIN                7*0       61 4.    . 20      4.20
rfswbo,            I 00      I is    t0o 0     1200
_mom               I ro3     23n      3 00      300
_m     r,tTeo"    19 10     1650    2000       2500
Tow" A40                    12                 2250
mMeWfflZ           270       4 2      0Q        75 0
Ybb@o q a07c                is"     25 30      32 4
soA$              41 70    '0010   I1300
_6.%W            1442,     M%    2"I0         '91 4



- 36 -
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of I
The Gambia
National Health DOeulopment Project
Ministry of Health, Labour and Ancmal .Wlfare
Emisting Organizatlon Chart
|Miniter of Health
I
|Permanent; Secretary|
|Under Secretsv          Principal                                    Transpor                Labour |
a  Health Planner        Director of            Foreman             Commissioner
IMedical Services I
Director olf _                                  _                   Chiet          __   Principal
Social Wolf    a     re Assistant DMS                              Storekeeper             Accountant
(Deputy DMS role)
Assistant DMS |
l                             ~~~~~~~~~~(operational role)|
RVH Board &             Medical Officer
Hospital                  Bansang
Secretary                 Hospital                            Nurss                         ut
r--       I                           ~~~~~~~~~~Training  _| Unit
Maintenance               Chief                                             MCH/EPI
Unit                Pharmacist                                            Unit
Chief Nursing
Off lcor      
Medical Officer
of Health
Regional Medical|
I                                               Oll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ficer  kI Medical!
Health   |     4  PHC Training                              (Western)    icer       edical
Education                                                               (Cntai
/  \   o~~~Ea;te9r i)
I    | Health  1 l U \   i Dispensaries
Cleansing  Lproy  Centers|
|    Vetr  |                                             | sub        |||
| Control  |                     =      >   t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dispnais[



- 37 -
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of I
The fs^inhio
National Hoalth Deuolopment Projoet
Mlnistry ot Health, Labour evtd Social WUoflr,
Proposod Organl2atlon Chart
Minister of Health
I
Pormanont Secretary
|Under S crtatrye W   Principal                                                           LabrPrncipal
Health Planner i   |11 o             |        AccouDirct       [    missioner
Medical Services
Director of_
Social Welfare        Asltnt DMS
(Dopt iMS role)-I__
Assistant DMS
(operational role)
|Chief Nursing|
RVH Soad            | Officer                            PH  Ty3                  {3n
[Managr  a                 Training                                                       Chief;;
|Modical Officcr |- 
| of H althI                                                 !
Hgalt~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rgo                                       M Mcdcal l
I Education }                li                               ^clr)       ior        Ocdcal
{ \ \ (~Eastern)
Nutrition    _            B/Lop osy/    
|Cleansing    L          1                               1 
IServices    r            ntrol  |\sb                                               t
ey



- 38 -
Annez 5.1
Page 1 of 7
TM GDMIA
NATIONAL HEALTH D VELOPMZNT PROJWCT
Revolving Fund for Drugs and-other Consumables
Background:
1.        Drug and Supply Shortages.  Apart from the drugs provided by the
VHW, the availability of drugs and other consumables at *11 levels of the
health system has been seriously deficient. Requests from lower level* of
the system for replenishment can usually be only partially filled by CMS
Health workerm report frequent nhortages of even simple drugs and supplies
with the result that, for exasple, a full course of chloroquinine for
treatment of malaria cannot be given.
2.        The primary reasons for the severe shortage have been chronic
underfunding of the health system's recurrent costs and The Gambia's poor
foreign ezchange situation. Drug funding through the budget fell from
already low absolute levels equal to 17% of the MHLSW's budget in to about
91 in 1985/86. Overall, the health system ha. been heavily dependent upon
donation of drugs and supplies from both official and private sources and
this has compounded planning and management difficulties. A modest $300,000
equivalent has been budgeted by Government for replenishment of drugs and
supplier each year, but foreign exchange ha not always been available for
expenditure. Annual availability of public sector drugs has umounted to
about US$0.30 per capita, for short of the minimum WHO recommended provision
of essential drugs of about $1.50 per capita. Much of The Gambia's high
incidence of communicable disease is attributable to this unsatisfactory
drug supply situation.
3.        The Government levies an import duty averaging 25 S on drugs and
other medical supplies imported by the private sector. For its imports, the
private sector in the past bad to obtain foreign exchange on the black
market at an effective rate of nearly double the official, controlled rate
(until January, 1986). Even so, the value of annual imports of drugs and
medical supplies has averaged D 3.9 million. While a large portion of these
imports are of the patent medicine type, private pharmacies can supply
antibiotics, drugs and vaccines to treat most common diseases in The Gambia.
By imposing import duties on these items the Governoent is discouraging
development of the private sector pharmacies which could, in time,
efficiently provide much broader distribution of essential drugs. Duties
also add to the incentives for pilferage from the public stock for resale on
the private market. The substantial price difference (between the public



- 39 -
Annex 5.1
Pige 2 of 7
and private sectors) attributable to the previously overvalued currency, the
import duty and the high demand for drugs in The Gambia, have created a
sizeable incentive for pilferage of public stocks.
4.        Devaluation and floating of the exchange rate (January. 1986) has
reduced some of this incentive to corruption but the Government may also
wish to reassess the benefits and costs of continuing the import duties on
essential drugs and medical consumables. Total revenues raised are very
small and costs to the economy, and perhaps to the budget, from the high
incidence of preventable disease may far outweigh this income. For the
medium term, the Government has already enacted a drug control and ph3rmacy
licensing law which provideg the basis for sound regulation and expansion of
the private sector. While Government may wisely decide to discourage
imports of tonics, lotions and patent medicines, it may usefully consider
exempting from trade duties any medicines on the essential drugs list
imported by a qualified pharmacy in accordance with the new Drug Law. Next
steps should center on effective management of CMS and its distribution
system and encouragement of the development of the private pharmacies
through its pricing policies for drugs available through the official
system.
5.        Supply and Management Systems.  The CMS plans, orders and takes
delivery of all MULSU imports of drugs and supplies. It serves es the
distribution center for the Royal Victoria Hospital. the western medical
district and supplies regional drug wareb)use in the central and eastern
districts. The Government bas already established an essential drugs
propraa in accordance with WHO principles.   Overall management of CMS and
its regional depots and the systems for accounting, maintaining inventory
and distributing supplies has been the subject of technical assistance fr-a
Africare (an NGO). Inventory recording and control procedures have been
established. The capacity of CMS has been increased with an additional
building, shelving and equipment. The regional depots maintain an up-to-
date inventory and reordering system.  Dependency on grants and donations of
drugs has compounded management and logistical problems. Very small
donations of brand phatraceuticals, result in difficult stores management
and prescription problems. Sorting and storing these small quantities of
highly specific and limited use drugs absorb a disproportionate amount staff
time and good management of esential drugs has been hampered.
6.        Existing Cost Recovery Systems.  The Government has established a
successful system of user fees for primary health care services in the
central and eastern districts of The Gambia. A modest charge of D 0.5 has
been made for initial visits to health centers, dispensaries and sub-
dispensaries. Subsequent Visits for the same illness or for referral to the
next level are not charged.  Exempted categories of patients (MCH care,
children under five, EPI activities. etc.) are also not charged. A simple



- 40 -
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 7
two-part chit system has served to account for charges collected and
patients to be treated.
7.        Health workers in PHC villages in the central and eastern
districts of the country also charge a modest fee for dispensing the eleven
simple medicines in their stock. Income from these sales is used to
replenish the stock from the nearest health center. The, system seems to be
operating well and would be extended to the western district under the
project.
The Revolving Fmnd
S.        As part of the project, the Government will improve the management
and operation of CMS and will establish a revolving fund for drugs and other
medical supplies to improve cost recovery at all levels of the health
system.
9.        Details of Fund Establishment.  To improve the financing of non-
salary recurrent costs the Government will extend its cost recovery efforts
by: (a) charging fees for services, drugs, and medical supplies, and (b)
improving existing systems for collection and accounting for fees. A
revolving fund would be established which would be capitalized by (a)
proceeds of external grants, credits, and gifts made for drugs and medical
supplies. and (b) Government budget allocations for the purchase of druga,
medical supplies, and services would accrue to the Fund as income. It is
expected that the Fund could gradually reduce subsidies, improve efficiency
and generate revenues for health care. (Details of the revolving fund,
ter.tative projections of Fund income and expenditures, and risks to be
considered are contained in Annex 5). All drugs and medical consumables
would continue to be managed by CMS which would strengthen accounting and
inventory control procedures in accordance with recommendations of a
recently completed study. Record keeping, security, storage facilities,
fire prevention and distribution procedures would be improved.
10.       As recommended by a consultant's study Government will cbarge a
single fee for admission and treatment of patients. This fee, paid on
initial registration of the patient, would cover all service and drug/supply
costs, including free upward referral in the health system for more serious
cases. Designated categories of patients will be exempted entirely from
these fees (e.g. expectant mothers, children under five, leprosy/TB and
schistosomiasis patients). At-risk maternity cases will receive
hospitalization and health center delivery care at half the normal rate.
It would not be feasible to distinguish, at the time of drug procurement or
distribution to dispensing units, which items would be "sold  asnd which
would be dispensed free for exempted groups or programs. Therefore all drug
supplies would be managed, replenished and controlled under existing unified
procedures.



- 41 -
Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 7
11.       The MHLSW would establish sales and cash receipt control
procedures so that proceeds of sales from health centers and dispensaries
can be collected regularly by the RHTs and submitted to the sub-Treasury
offices of the Ministry of Finance in the regions. These revenues would be
clearly denominated as "income from sales of drugs and consumables" and
would be consolidated as such at the national level to be credited as income
to the revolving fund. Assets of the revolving fund would be convertible to
foreign exchange in accordance with normal procedures and would be used for
the import of further drugs and supplies.
12.       In order to prevent subsidies from the revolving fund to the RVH
and Bansang hospitals, all drugs and consumables supplied from CMS to the
hospitals would be compensated by payments or subventions from the hospital
budgets to the fund income account. The cost of these supplies to the
hospitals would be fixed at actual CIF value as maintained on the books of
CM4S plus a fixed handling fee to cover costs. As part of their greater
autonomy under planned reforms the hospitals should establish cost
accounting systems for recording these and other costs and for recording the
income from patients attributable to the sale of the drugs and provision of
special services. Deficits as may occur should be covered by budget
transfers to the hospitals clearly denoted as such. This will aid in making
the cause of subsidies transparent and will preserve the financial integrity
of the Fund.
13.       Technical assistance, training and some equipment and modest
facility improvements would be required for CMS to manage its inventory,
implement tight control systems and for MHLSW to manage the assets and
accounts of the Fund. A consultancy on detailed procedures for operation of
the fee collection system has been completed and forms part of the project
file. Expatriate technical assistance to establish the framework and
procedures of the Fund and to assist the Chief Pharmacist and RMOs in
establishing and maintaining the operations of CMS and the regional revenue
collection systems are included in the project, as well as local staff
training.
14.       Prospects for the Revolving Fund.  Table 1 shows the average
weighted cost of a prescription in the Gambia based on present
epidemiological patterns and demand using UNICEF 1986 prices for most drugs.
Table 2 presents a cash flow projection for the revolving fund. The
projection indicates that under reasonable assumptions about fee levels,
utilization rates, and drugs dispensed without charge, the fund will
preserve its endowment and generate revenues for the health sector
sufficient to finance some project capital costs and incremental recurrent
costs after completion of the project. Financing to capitalize the fund
(from the budget, the Italian and Dutch grands and the IDA Credit) are
estimated at about $2.2 million equivalent over the five years. If well-
managed the fund would appear to have the potential to generate considerable
revenues to improve health care in The Gambia.



- 42 -
Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 7
15.       Uxoerience witb establishment of revolving funds is Btilj new and
has generally not been good.  The most common reasons for failure   include
the following. which must be paid attention to in detailed design and
operation of the proposed fund for The Gambia.
-    rapid program expansion for which additional capital funds are not made
available;
-    undereBtimation of the capitalization costs of the supply system;
-    unanticipated losses of drugs through theft or deterioration;
-    high operating costs which exceed budgeted amounts;
-    prices set too low for intended level of cost recovery;
-    failure to collect payment for drugBs
-    delays in collections of payments from government agencies (i.e.
hospitals);
-    funds tied up in national banking system or Ministry accounting
mechanisms;
-    foreign exchange limitations which restrict foreign purchases for
resupply.
16.       These risks have been conscientiously addressed by Government's
approach to capitalization and operation of the Fund, but actual experience
will bear close monitoring to adjust to unforeseen problem and to extract
the lessons from this approach which may be relevant in other countries. In
staffing and managing CMS the MHLSW will especially have to pay attention to
skills of inventory management and sound business practices in reordering
and controlling operating costs. Local technical assistance from
experienced Gambian pharmacy entrepreneurs could be especially helpful in
this regard.  Considerable changes in work practices and attitudes are
likely to be required of CMS staff.
1 See Peter Cross, et al; Revolving Drug Funds: Conducting Business in
the Public Sector; Social Science Medicine, Vol. 22, No. 3, 1986.



THE GAMIA
ATIONIAL HIALTH DEVELOIWDiT FROJ1!
Stardard Treatment and
Standard   Prescription Cost.
Condition     Drug              Unit    Dos. per $ cost   Dalasi   Prescription Combined    as %      weighted pricm  Delas
per pack treatment per pack unit cost cost hI US1  prescriptions conditions hI US oaes    equivelOs
Malaria       chbrqulne             1000          6    $5.9S     20.83       0.0367
aspirirn              1000         4    $0.94      3.29      0.00376        $0.04    17.61%            0.70    5.27
Up.Reop. Tract  septrin             1000         28   614.90     52.15       0.4172                 12.85%           5.36   40.21
Pptic Uicr    mng.irlsrlcate        1000        30    $3.16      11.06       0.0948                  8.55%           0.81    6.06
Diwrrha       Orait. (sas)             I          6    $0.04      0.14         0.24                  7.78%           1.87   14.00
Skin Di3order   son prn               S0       0.01   547.90    167.65      0.00968                                          0.00              '
Skin Dsorder   bonzyl benzoe (lIr)     1       0.01    $1.57      5.50       0.0157        $0.03     6.71%           0.17    1.27
Pain          apIrin                1000         56    $0.94      3.29      0.05264                  6.35%           0.33    2.51
TraumaiWounds  t.cican1paracetamol                                0.00          0.3                  6.02%           1.61   13.55
Eye Diorder   tetracyline ointment     1          1    50.07      0.25         0.07                  4.76%           0.33    2.So
Preumona      bozyl penklh             1         16    50.97      0.25         1.12                                          0.00
procaine peniclUin       1         4    SO06       0.21          0.24       $1.36     4.08%            5.55   41.62
Mouth Diorder  multivle             1000         14    $1.74      6.09      0.02436                                           0.00
Mouth Disorder  riboflavin         1000         14  S0.83        2.91      0.01162    S    0.04     3.28%           0.12    0.89
Ewr.Noss.Throat pencN V             1000         40    $7.51     26.29       0.3004                  3.21%           0.96    7.23
Anaemia      ferrous suiate          100         42     0.26      0.91       0.1092                                          0.00
Ansma         oikc acid             1000         28    50.56      2.03      0.01624                                           0.00
Anasmia       proguanli             1000         26    53.00     10.50        0.084                                           0.00
Anaemia       pyrimetharnln*        5900          4    S7.70     26.95  0.005220339        $0.21     3.10%           0.67    4.99
Up.Reepir.Disor. nitrofuratoin       S00         20    $9.10     31.85        0.364                  2.85%           1.04    7.78
Worma         Hvamasols             1000        1t5   $20.44     92.40        0.396                  2.32%           0.92     6.89
Dehydration   Orallte                   1         9    8.4        1.40          3.6                  0.79%           2.84   21.33       .5
Hypertenson   mnwbyldopa            1000        112   $63.90    223.65       7. 1568                 0.38%           2.72   20.40       0
Heat Disorder  frusmide             1000         28    U3.10     10.85       0.0868                  0.33%           0.03    0.21
EP"ISFM ph   9u n1                   100         56    50.36      1.26       0.2016                  0.12%           0.02    0.16
Mental Dsorder chbkpromazln           100        42    50.67      2.35       0.2814                  0.03%           0.01     0.06       o l
Total           91.32%          $0.26     1.97



-  44  -                                                   Annex  ".1
Page 7 of 7
Detailed Financial Projectionrs   Revotling Fund
The Gambil   Nationatl Health Dsvelopmntrit Project
Basic parameters
Exchsange Rate                           7 51
Fecal Year   1986/h7 1987jA8  tltP '8.    q'3i90 1990/91 1991/97 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
Irtilltion Rate (MUV)                    1.12     1 1i    t.'r     1.01     1.01    1.03.   t 035    1 035    1.035
Population size                       764865  731C;  Pt t143  841923  069240  895310 922177  949843  978338
Populabon growth rats                            1 C/'5   1 035     035     1.03     1.03      03      1 03    1.03
Cosb to Revolving Fund for Drugs and Medlicl itpplirs           (V-4lues below in D 000's unless otherwse noted)
1. Drugs for Prescriptions
Working stock valueo15 monthra1avg.prascr/canital    2509    2098    2193    2282    2433    2593    2764    2947
Weighted average costiprcription                $0.35   t0.35     0.36    $00.36    $0.37    $0.39    50 40    $0.41
prescriptions/person/year                         I 00    1.20     1.44     1.73    2.00    2.00      2.00     2.00
Total number prescriptions                     764865  949962 1179853 1458299 1738481 1790635 ,844354 1899685
Cost of drug.dspstnsed                           2007    2518    3159    3943    4865    5186    5529    5894
Cost of drugs procured                           4516    2609    3254    4031    5016    5347    5700    6077
15% Insur.  Freight                               677      391     488       605     752      802      855      912
5% Port handling                                  226      126      158      197     243      259      276      295
Wastage 115 declining to 5%)                      677      302      284      276     243      259      276      295
sub-total                                        6091    3428    4184    5109    6255    6668    7106    75i8
2. CDC drugs
malaria                                           173      178      183      187     191      198      204      212
TB/Lsprosy                                        559      576      593      605     618      640      662      686
Schisto                                           138      142      147      149     153      158      164      169
sub-total                                         870      896      923      941     962      996    1031    1067
Total Cost of Drugs                              6967    4324    5106    6050    721         7663    8139    8644
3. Supplies to Institutlons
X-ray materials                                 155      161      167      174      186     198      211      225
laboratory suppiies                              232     258      286      318      362     412      470      535
dentalsuppliee                                  1t55      172     191      212      242      275      313     356
sub-total                                         541      591      645      705      790     885      994    1116
Total Coats to Revolving Fund                    750P    4915    5751    6755    8006    8549    9132    9760
Resources Available to RevolvIng Fund
1 Income from outpatient and orescrlptlon teas
% prescriptions dispensed free                    JC%     35%      43%      40%      36%      32%      26%     21%
prsscriptions/person/year                                   1.2      44    1 728        2       2        2        2
charge per preecripton (detasts)                             5        5        5      7.5      7,5      7.5      7.5
L,utpailent Fee incomen  (D. 0OOOa)               t77    aII1    3355    4375    0345    9079   10247   11293
2. Incomt from Hesith Care Instllutlons
In-Patients treated, RVH (incr 3/./annum)        8 on    6240    6487    8742    9004    9274    9552    9839
Chargt/ stay                                     50       60       70       70      70       70       70       70
Income (0000's)                                 4CO      494     594      61 2     630      649      669     689
At risk matemity cases at RVH(rncr 3%/ann%ml   30C0    3090    3183    3278    3377    3478    3582    3690
Income (D. ODO's)    50% norm laa                s5       93       111    115      118      122      125      129
In-Patients at BH (incr. 10%/ann. 3yrs 5% theoralh   2000    2200    2420    2541    2668    2801    2942    3089
Charge/stay                                      25      30       35       35       35       35       35      35
Income (D. 000's)                                50       66       85      89       93       98      103      108
hI -Pasents at HC     ncr 5%/annum               2800    2940    3087    3241    3403    3574    3752    3940
HC at rsk deirverins  ncr t10%/annum           7100    2310    2541    2795    3075    3382    3720    4092
charge/stay        (at risk @50% norrn         125       15     1 7 5    1 7 5     75      1 7 5    1 7 5    17.5
Income (D ODO's)                                 48       Pi       76      81       86       92       98      105
Service ltatirialt
X-rays (avg.3/60% inpatients)                  '60      167      1 7'     181     18?      1 93     200      207
Lab. Foes (D 5/platient, 10%/tinnum incr n vO! )  11      is      h6       95      1 04     115      126     1 39
dentistry (18000 pats @D5 &10 'Ianriurn "cr       90      )9      109      120      132     145      159      175
Subtotal  Materials Income (Doco's)               321      344      370      195     473      453      486      521
Total Fee Income, institutions (D 000'.)          894    10(19    1273f    179?    1 31    1414    1481    1552
Total Revolving Fund Resources Summary
Outpaient ann Prescoption Iras                  2a77    t111      3 55    43;5    8345    9079   10247   11293
Fee Income from Instruti,ins                      894    1(159      2 lth   1 32    1351    1414    1481    1552
Government Butget for D'6gs 8 Mod-ca, l,;IPPes   1 657     669      IA8     t 707    1 782    1823    1887    1953
Italian Grant                                      I z5s              0        0 o              0        0        0
Di t;h Grant                                              2549    ,441    24 78         0       C        0        0
IDC Funring of CDC DrJgs                          8710     89ti    9?'t      941     962        0        0        0
Total                                            9848    9283    9641  1tO/87   17419    231t6  13615   14798
Fund Surplus Avell  for Other Sector Costs    7340)   4369    3811)    4033    441 3    3767    4483    5038



- 45 -
Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 2
THE GMIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVUOP KNT PROJCT
Transport Services of the Ministry of Health,
Labor and Social Welfare
1.        The MHLSW currently has about 90 vehicles in its transport fleet,
of which about a third are beyond economic repair, a third in need of major
overhaul and a third are currently in service but in need of regular
maintenance. Over the five year project period it is estimated that about
half of the 90 vehicle fleet should be replaced and types of vehicles should
be standardized to ease maintenance and stocking of spares.
2.        The OSE Study suggests that the Ministry consider upgrading driver
skills to allow them to become driver/mechanics.  While this may be an
objective to aim for over the next 4ive years caution should be exercised in
the near term, particularly with the new vehicles acquired. Increasing
sophistication of auto electrical and mechanical systems make it likely that
efforts at repair by poorly trained driver/mechanics without proper
equipment could result in need for ms or repairs and shorten overall vehicle
life. For this reason the project su;ports the establishment of a routine
service center for each health region. These centers would be used only for
simple service operations such as tire repair, oil and filter changes, wiper
and light replacements. These tasks can be performed by drivers with little
risk of damage to the vehicles and if routinely done will prolong service
life. As the centers can be located at regional medical stores there will
be no problems stocking spares and no additional staff would be required for
the centers.
3.         All mechanical and electrical repairs and adjustments, such as
tune-ups, clutch, transmission. engine and bearing work should be performed
at the nes Government central workshop in Kotu. Spares purchased under the
project tor the MHLSW fleet would be stored and accounted fcr separately
there and the vehicle fleet mcnager for MHLSW would ensure that the MHLSW
facilities are not used to undertake such repairs.
4.        Improved management of the vehicle fleet will be a prerequisite to
its more effective iLe arid necesrary to protect against abuse of these
assetr. Consistent X itli the recommendations of the OSE Study a competent
transport fleet amanager sliould be appointed and charged with establishing
and enforcing regulaticns for use of vehicles, with planning the maintenance
and repair of thie fleet, with training, promotion and discipline of drivers,
planning and stocling of Epares and development of an annual plan for
effective operation of the fleet including its fuel requirements. The
manager should also be charged with establishing and managing a system for
regional fuel distribution depots sD that MHLSW vehicles will have ready



- 46 -
A.yq 6.1
Page 2 of 2
access to their fuel entitlement. The project provides specific funding for
fuel during the project period to suppleent the budgetary allocation under
the BRP.



- 47 -
Annex 7.1
Page 1 of 1
THE GAMIA
NATIONAL HTALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance
(Person/Months)
Year
Component        Description             1    2    3    4    5        Total
Sector           Health Economist        12   12                      24
Reforms and
Strengthening   Hospital Refor-ws              6                       6
Establishment of       12    1    1    1    1        16
Revolving Fund
Strengtheniing   Periurban Social         1.5                          1.5
Health           Survey
Services
MCH/FP Training:
- Obstetrician/                    24                24
Gynecologists
- Nurse midwives                   60               60
Health Education         1.5                          1.5
Nurse Training:
- CHN Nurse Tutors           12    12                24
- Physicians for             12    12                24
Bansang
- turse Tutors               24    24               48
for Bansang
- In-service                 12                     12
Training Physician
Project Evalustion                  4         4       8
Project Manager          9  12    12    3           36
TOTALS                                    36  91   149    4   5    285



- 4B -
Annex 7.2
Page 1 of 4
TO GUAN1A
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Plan of Sectoral Reform
1.        As part of the proposed National Health Development Project. the
Government of the Gambia plans to undertake a program of reforms in the
health sector specifically to strengthen health sector management, financing
and support systems through (i) reorganization of the Ministry of Health,
Labor and Social Welfare HLSW). (ii) decentralization, (iii) mobilization
of financial resources, and (iv) strengthening of the logistical support.
The proposed reforms are outlined below and the details including procedures
and regulations would be further *.laborated and submitted to IDA by January.
1987. Once mutual agreement is reached, the Government would implement the
plan, including making appropriate provisions for its implementation in the
annual budget.
Reorganization of MHLSW
2.        Objective.  The physical separation of MHLSW and the Directorate
of Medical and Health Services (DMHS) and the overlapping of their
responsibilities have been identified as major constraints of program
implemenLation. Thus, the Government plana to Ci) locate the key personnel
cf MOHLSW and DMHS in the same building and (ii) realign their
administrative responsibilities to improve efficiency.
3.        Required Steps.  To implement this reform, the following actions
are being undertaken as of October 31, 1986:
(a) Construction and renovation of additional office space in MHLSW
for key staff of MHLSW and DMHS;
(b)  Devolution by the Permanent Secretary to the Director of Medical
Services of some of his responsibilities (e.g. coordination of the
management of the transport fleet, procurement of drugs and
supplies. etc.). In addition, a review of additional areas for
devolution is being carried out; and
(c) A study defining the roles of the Permanent Secretary. MHLSW. and
the Director of Medical Services, and preparation of guidelines
for the smooth operation of the health administration will be
completed by February 1987. This will take into consideration the
Ministerial responsibility for health policy matters and the
Departmental responsibility for program policy matters, thus



- 49 -
Annex 7.2
Page 2 of 4
removing some areas of overlap.  Furtler reorganization of MHLSW
will await the outcome of the Organization, Staffing. and
Efficiency (OSE) study presently being undertaken.
Decentralization of Health Sector Management
4.        Objective.   The centralized management system in the health
sector in constraining the efficient implementation of health services at
the bospital, regional, and peripheral levels. To improve the efficiency of
health service delivery, the Government plans to decentralize the management
pro:evs by delegating personnel management and financial responsibilities to
Hospitals Board, heads of specialized urits. ,nd regional medical c'ficers,
and increasing their participation in sector planning.
5.        Required Steps.  The OSE Study (OSE) is expected to provide
recommendations which would form the basis for defining the roles and
functions of the various managers at different levels and for preparing job
specifications. The drafting of the job descriptions is expected to be
completed by March 1987.
6.        In addition, the following steps would be undertaken:
(a) strengthening the management capacity of the hospitals by
reconstituting the Hospitals Board of the Royal Victoria Hospital
and Bansang Hospital. This will be achieved by legislative
enactment whicb will define the Board's roles and responsibilities
and will make the Board semi-autonomous within MHLSW. The
legislative process will be initiated by the Permanent Secretary
by December 1986 and is expected to be concluded by April, 1987.
It is envisaged that the Board will be composed of representatives
from the medical profession and the general public, and will be
responsible for developing policies for operation of hospitals and
ensure their efficient operation. In addition, the Board will
recomend co MHLSW measures to improve the quality of hospital
care, in general;
(b) delegation of financial management to the Hospital Board by the
Permanent Secretary. MHLSW. will be achieved at the beginning of
each financial year by issuing budget authority which will enable
the Hospitals Board to take over financial responsibilities for
dctivities such as the procurement of supplies, including the
procurement of drugs and supplies from the Central Medical Stores.
which presently is the responsibl2ty of the Permanent Secretary,
MHLSW. This will be implemented at the beginning of 1987/198B
fiscal year;



- 50 -
Annex 7.2
Page 3 of 4
(c) a review of the role of the member. of the regional health teams
and recommendations for improving their efficiency to manage
service delivery. This review is ptesently being undertaken by a
comittee which has been set up to advise the Director of Medical
Services and is expected to be completed by February 1987.
Implementation of the committee's recommendations is expected to
be initiated by March 1987; and
(d) strengthening the capability of the regional health offices to
undertake responsibilities of managing regional programs through
the provision of additional administrative staff and delegation of
authority to procure drugs and supplies by issuing budgetary
authority at the beginning of the financial year. Financial
allocation for these additional staff shall be provided in the
1987/88 fiscal budget.
Mobilization of Financial Pesources.
7.        Ooiective.  The Government has approved the proposal to introduce
vithin the project a cost recovery program for the rational and more cost
effective financing of the National Health Service. This program would
include (i) improving existing systems for collection and accounting for
fees; (ii) establishing fees for medical services; and (iii) establishing a
revolving fund within MOHLSW as part of the Central Medical Stores
management, and charging fees for drugs and medical supplies, the income
from whicb would be used to replenish the revolving fund.
8.        Required Steps.  To implement the above reforms, the following
actions have been undertaken:
(a) completion of a study to identify the mechanisms and arrangements
necessary for the establishment of a drug re-volving fund. The
Government hss accepted, in principle the main recommendations of
the study; and
(b)  preparation of a schedule of fees for prescriptions and special
diagnostic services, and establishment of new charges for
admission to health institutions, registration for MCH services,
based on agreed criteria, including defined exemptions.
9.        In addition, the following stepa will be undertaken:
(a) appointment by Februerv 1987 of a management accountant who will
ensure the establishment of a sound accounting system that will
facilitate the management of the revolving fund in line with the
recommendations of the study mentioned in pars 8 (a). The



- 51 -
Annex 7.2
Page 4 of 4
Government is now in the process of identifying a suitable
consultant; and
(b) submission to the Cabinet of the revised fee structure before
consideration by IDA of the proposed credit.
Strengthening of the Logistical Support
10.       Objective.  Program implementation has been impeded by poor
management of the MHLSW's transport, a bigh level of unroadvorthy vehicles.
insufficient allocation of fuel, and poor maintenance.   To remedy this
situation, it is proposed to establish a sound transport management system
and revitalize the MHLSW's transport fleet.
11.       Required Steps.  To implement the above reform, the following
steps have been undertaken:
(a) establishnent of a transport policy which seeks to strengthen the
management of the transport fleet of MHLSW, including its rational
allocation and use;
(b) appointment of an expatriate transport manager under an ODA-funded
project (Project for Combatting Childhood Communicable Diseases);
and
(c) preparation of an inventory of MHLSW's vehicles stating their
state of road worthiness and recommendations for their
rehabilitation.
12.       In addition, the following actions will be undertaken:
(a) establighment by December 1986 of maintenance workshops at central
and regional levels;
(b) establishment by December 1987 of regional storage facilities for
bulk purchases of fuel; and
(c) robabilitation during the project period of about 30 vehicles and
procurement of 30 new vehicles.



- 52 -
Annez 8.0
Page 1 of 1
TE  0G 31A
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
In-Service Training Program
Responsibility for
Types of Training         Preparation and Conduct         Timing
MHanagement for RHTs      Management Development          Working team is
Institute (MDI) and MHLSW      preparing job
descriptions for
completion by
February 1987;
detailed training
plan will then be
prepared.
Village Development       MDI aind MHLSW Committees       Ongoing program;
current efforts will
focus on management
skills and improving
course content.
Financial Management      MDT and Government Establish-
for MHLSW HQ staff        ments Secretary                 Under preparation.
Financial Management      MDI and Accountant Advisor
for health service        to Revolving Fund
staff                                                     To be prepared.
Budgetary Procedures      Same as above                   Same as above.
PHC Training for          Existing PHC Team               Underway.
Western Region
PHC Trsining for Banjul  Same as above.                   Same as above.
peri-urban area
Improved CDC              RVH clinical staff              Ongoing



- 53 -
Annez 8.1
Page 1 of 1
UK GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Action Program
1.        The sub-comittee on the Family. Health and Nutrition will
formulate a nutrition action program to be reflected in the Government
budget and taking the following into account:
1)   Nutrition conditions in the Gambia will be heavily influenced by
macro-economic policies (such as price policies for agriculture
and for food); the nutrition action program will require and
establish guidelines for those responsible for such policies
explicitly to take nvtrition/consumption issues into account;
2)   Government agencies active in nutrition have sometimes overlapping
mandates and programs  this may lessen overall impact, involve
duplication, increase operating costs and reduce program
effectiveness. A review of this situation should be made in the
nutrition action program to provide a framework for better
coordination and a reformulation of the most cost effective way to
allocate available resources.
3)   Many NGOs are involved in nutrition.  Their combined impact may be
enhanced by better coordination and links with government policies
and programs. NGOs should be made aware of the nutrition action
program and should be asked to adjust appropriately their programs
in support of national priorities.
4) Food aid from external donors should be considered in the context
of the nutr.tion action program and donors should be asked to
target food aid in accordance with government priorities.
5)   The action program will include policies and actions on the most
appropriate means for the health services to treat severe
malnutrition, the nature of nutrition education messages, types
and effective treatment of micronutrient deficiencies, and
nutrition aspects of MCH programs.
6)   L:'nks between nutrition research and findings (both domestic and
internationul) and government policies and programs should be
included under tIe action program. Specifically, the action
program should identify nutrit2on needs of The Gambia. priorities
for research, study and pilot interventions and a requirement that
externally funded research and study programs be responsive to
these needs and priorities.



- 54 -
Annex 9.1
Page 1 of 1
THE AMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPEINT PROJECT
Suaarv Accounts bw Year
(DALASIS '000)
Base Costs                          Foreiun Exchange
1        2         3        4         5     Total         ^    Amount
1. INVESTEKNT COSTS
A. CIVIL IMOS
1. CIVIL WORKS                      31,000.2 24.385.1 13,512.6    951.5          -  69,B49.4    80.0  55,860.0
2. FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT           5,079.2      46.8 12P243.0  2P662.0         -  20,031.0    80.0  16,024.8
3. ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES            2,190.5  1,800.0  1,900.0    600.0          -   6,390.5   100.0   6,390.5
Sub-Total CIVIL  MORKS                 38t269.9 26,231.9 276555.6  4t213.5          -  96,271.0    81.3  78,275.3
3. EQUIPMENT                            3,564.5    863.7    542.2    242.9        0.1   5.213.4    99.7   5,197.8
C. VEHICLES                               564."    828.2    781.0    781.0          -   2,955.2   100.0   2,955."
D. TECHNICAL AS' ISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                   237.7      89.2     65.8      22.6    22.6      437.9      0.0       0.0
2. FOREI6N CONSULTANTS               2,740.6  90199.9  3,420.2    288.7   390.5  16,040.0   100.0  16,040.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          2,978.4  9,289.1  3t486.0    311.3   413,1  16P477.9    97.3  16,040.0
E. TRAININOG
1. INSERVICE TRAININI                  296.1      44,4    117.1      33.5    44.3      535.4      0.0       0.0
2. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS               2,068.1    886.9    443.5          -        -   3,398.5   100.0   3,398.5
3. STUDY TOURS                         210.6         -         -        -        -     210.6   100.0      210.6
Sub-Total TRAINING                      2,574.8    931.3    560.6       33.5    44.3   4,44,!    V.1,1   3p60Y.l
F. MATERIALS                              368.2    368.2    368.2    368.2   368.2   1,841.1    89.6   19649.8
6. DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES           4,540.9  3.022.9  2p866.9  2,855.9   785.9  14.072.7   100.0  14.072.7
H. OPERATIONS RESEARCH                    112.7      84.9    112.7      84.9   112.7      507.9    50.0      254.0
1. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY         3,004.0         -         -                 -   3.004.0    90.0   2,703.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    55,978.3 41.620.4 369273.4  8,891.3 10724.3 144,487.7    86.3 124,757.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                              268.7    268.7    268.7    268.7   268.7   1.343.7         0.0        0.0
B. FUEL                                  390.0    390.0    390.0    273.0   195.0   1.638.0   100.0   1,638.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        658.7    658.7    658.7    541.7   463.7   2.981.7    54.9   1,638.0
Total  ASELINE COSTS                       56,637.1 429279,1 36,932.1  9,433.0 2,188.1 147.469.4    85.7 126395.'
Phvs2eal Contingencies                     526.5    646.6    290.2        9.4        -   1,472.6    80.4   1,184.0
Prict Contin*nczes                       1,449.9  2.622.2  1,582.9    90.4   381.0   6,976.4    89.4   6o237.7
'otal PROJECT COSTS                        58.613.4 45t547.9 38,805.2 10.382.8 29569.1 155,918.4    85.8 133.817.1
-~~~~===z -==z= ---=% =                  ===  ====  z=j:=-
Foreisn Exchange                        49,862.1 39p806.2 32.888.2  9,190.6 2,070.0 133p817.1         0.0        0.0
November It 1986  12:56



THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
(Dalasis '000)
REFOkMS TO SIRENGTHEN HEALTH SECTOR                                            STRENGTHENING HEALTH SERVICES
mIAGEEmT, 
FINANCE aND SuPwO7 SISIEKS                  NAlL
- -------- -- ---------- ------------------  E%ENS1ON DF
DRUGS AND  VEHICLES                    VILLA6b    MIATERNAL CARE  STfENGTHNEIM6 I                       ONITORING                       fROJECT
SECIOR    h8ICAL   IND SPARE   SHOI.TWAE         HEALTH       AMI, FP         NJTRIIIH      HEALIVH    NU"SE        AND      REHAD1LITATION OF  1W1GEffNT  RiYAIINEIT VF
REFORMS  SLPLIES     PARTS    RADIO SYSTEM    SERVICES      INIIIATIVES      SERVICES     EDUCATION  THAINING  EVALUAIION  HEALIH FACILITIES       UNilT        PF
6. DRUGS MID MEDICAl  SUPPLIES              -   14.072.?           -             -                                                                                                                                                   I
N. OPERATIONS RESEARCH                                                                                                    4 2 -  -  -  424.3  -     -        83.6                   -           -             -
1 PR"JECT PREPMATIEjN FALILITY             -          -                                                                                                        -                  -                    3                           LI'
Total INSTIENI COSTS                     3P991.3   14,510.3    3,343.6       2>140.4        1,525.7         ),3B3.4          435.8   1,359.9   7,300.2          83.6           96.075.7    3,333.9         3,004.0
11. RELUWNT COSTS
A. SALARIES                          1,261.0          -       82.7              -             -                                                                -                   -  
D. FUEL                                    -          -    1,638.0                            -
Ttl  ECURtENT COSTS                      1.261.0          -    1.720.7              -              -              -               -                                -                   -  
Total MELINE COSTS                        5v252.3   14,310.3   59064.3         2,140.4       1.525.7         7,383.4          435.8   1359.9  7,300.2           83.6            96,075.7     3133.9        3,004.0
Phnical Contanmncs is                        -       19.5           -             -              -              -              -           -         -           -             1,453.1           -
?ric  Cantntu inne                       683.4    1*792.0      559.6              -         232.5           940.1           67.1       56.2          -           -            29121.7        523.2
otal PROJECI COSIS                        5,935.7   16,321.8   5.623.9        2,140.4       I[r.6.2         8,324.2           502.8    1,416.0   7,300.2         83.6           Y91650.4    3,857.2         3,004.0
Z====z_: _=Z========            :======:_==_=                =:===_:_===_:_:=:== =======   ====_-- ======_======                                :========    ======Z=== _=
orein Excbane                          49145.9   16,197.4   5.529.6         29140.4       1,536.4       72976.1            247.8    1.147.4  7,300.2          41.8           81P046.4      34804.2       2,703.6
_ th 1w 19S6  13:0
0
I, oo 
o. h3



THE GANBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of Summary Accounts
(Dalasis '000)
Phwsical Conti Meeies                  Price tontininrigt                                                             R
Paw Costs                    ----------------------------------  ---------------------------------- -otal Ircl. Cot.                                     Ct. Fm
-------------o-----------------------                   Local                                  Local                     ---                 -      -                   Pr         .
Local tExcl. Duties I                          (Cyxc. Duties I                       (Excl. bties I                        Local  Exel. beies a                a  FkS-
For. Exch.    Taxes)      TAxes    Total       For. Exchr.  axes)  Taxes   Total    For. Ch. Taxes)  Taxes   Total    For. ExCh.    Taxes)            Taxis    1.            CWal.
I. INVCSTIIENT COSTS
it. RECIPREWT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                     -      1,343.7         -   19343.7             -      -         -       -            -  19B.7         -   186.7            -       1,532.4         -   1532.4           0*
P. FUEL                                  1,636.0              -        -   1,638.0             -      -         -        -           -       -        -        -     14638.0             -         -   1.65.0              -
-_-------    _                                                                                                                                                                __              _    ____ __   ____ _ _ _   
lotal REtlURT1 COSIS                          1,636.0      1,343.7          -   2911.7             -      -                                    B-  -   8.7  -   138.7    1,U6.0        1,532.4         -   3*170.4            O*
Total                                        126,395.5     213073.9          - 1479469.4      1.194.0  288.7         - 1.472.6      6P237.7  738.0         6-976.4   133.817.1         22,101.3         - 155.tl9.4      1IOW4A
MoWeWr 1- 1986  12:58
Io o



- 57 -
Annex 9.4
Page 1 of 1
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOP T PROJECT
Prolect Component by Year
lohls :nchq41(4 Continclets                           Totals Ircludint Continsincies
(DtLASIS 'OOOt                                          (USt '000)
............... ......................  ..  ....................  --------------------------...-----..--.-......----------.--. ... 
I        2        3         4        5     Total         1       2        3       4       5    Total
,=...:; :n.: :  ..... flnflf  53ZZ   ........ run::....  m.. .S.n......... ............s*fla :1:s =:
A. REFUNDS TO STIEATHEN IEM.TH SECTOR IWASEhENTI
511111C m tlTE 9Y"i
1. KECTO  1EFOIS                                                   2554.4  I.048.0    452.6    435.4   445.3   50935.7    340.1  m2.7    60.3    58.0  59.3    790.4
2.11 NW     A  ilc. SWf LU                                          MOW.  J444.8  3,317.3  3,411.6   9?4.8  tL.0.    01.1  458.7   449.?   455.2 1,1.8  2,173.
3. VNICLES I   VW  PARTS                                             b6.O  1.i485.9  lIolO0.  1,507.4   2!4.'   5963.9    107.3   197.u   214.4   200.7  29.6    748.9
4. 9iTlWJ   6IU10 SYSTEN                                           2,140.4                                    -   2.140.4    245.0         -       -        -     -    28S.0
.......... ............ . ... .....  .... ....  ---   -- -- -  ----   ....... . -------.... ....... .. -----..... . .-.-...
9h-Itol IEFUOS TO ST1TRNTEN NENATH SECTOR PMAOEI4ENT.
F11ICE   S  WPST SYSTEN6                                          lOo   .1     .6  5.440.0  5361.5 14.34.5  30,021.7  1.412.4   929.2   724.4   713.9 217.6  3,997.6
1. SIISTIN 1   I."TN 5EIIVICES
1. MTL EXTENSION OF YILLU6E WINi   SEkVICES                          *19.0    28e.8    597.0    175.7   n79.o   1.758.2        69.1    38.2    79.5    23.4  23.9    234.1
2. VMTERIW  CMI Ad  FP INITIAIIWES                                 3.015.5  5, 214.6     30.9      31.3    32.0   83.324.2    401.5   694.4      4.1     4.2   4.3  1.108.4
3t STISIIERI   ITUTION SEW9ICES                                       96.4      98.6   !i0.5    102.3   104.6       501.8      12.8    13.2    13.4    13.6  13.9       67.0
4. WATNI  EUICATION                                                  364.4    476.2   209.e    182.9   182.9   1,416.0         48.5    63-4    27.9    24.4  24.4    188.6
5. IUK  TRAININ                                                  1b0n5.0  3,644.4  2ib30.8           -       -   7300.2    136.5   495.3   350.3           -     -    9"2.1
6. INITRINSM A    EWLUNMTION                                          27.9         -     27.9         -    27.9      83.6       3.7       -      3.7       -   3.7      11.1
7i EIOILITATION OF lLTN FACILIIIES                                399174.6 27,858.2 '8.378.5  4,242.?         -  99,650.4  5W16.3 3,709.1 3.778.8   564.9         - 13.269.0
9. PMECT MI         EIRENT UNIT                                      779.5    993.4  1 389.7    297.0   407.6  3.857.2    103.8   132,3   185.0    38.2  54.3    513.6
SITXU   STIEIlEIII  N.ATIN SEIRVICES                                 41.02.3 38,59.3 331 65.?  5.021.3   934.5 122.92.7  5#9"2.3 5,135.7 4t442.8   6B.6 124.4 16,363.9
C. EATYIENT OF Pm                                                     3.004,0                  0-                 -   304.0    400.0             0-        -         -     00.0
7oa  PIBJECT COSTS                                                     58,613.4 459547.9 3t605.2 10.382.6 2.569,1 155.918.4  7404.7 6065.0 5.167.1 1,382.5 342.1 20,761.4
.S;4'               ::   :333S     3383.3; :S:O;sSm.   :Lss:: toss,. 1S9.1 2a:59           suSs :::::.
U1e_gt 1, 140 12:59



- 58 -
Annex 10.1
THE GAMBIA                                   Page 1 of 3
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Statement of Sources and Application of Funds
Revolving Fund and Sectoral Investment Plan
1986/87      1994/95
(In D. 000's)
Fiscal Year          1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
lRevolvino Fund
Cost of Drugs                                   6967    4324    51'j6    6050    7217    7663    8139    8644
Cost of supplies to insttubons                   541     591      645     705      790     885      994    1116
Total Costs                                     7508    4915    5751    8755    8006    8549    9132    9760
OutpstientFeelncorne                            2677    3111    3355    4375    8345    9079   10247   11293
Income from Health Insttution Fees               894    1059    1236    1292    1351    1414    1481    1552
Govt. Budget for Drugs & Med. Supplies          1652    1669    1685    1702    1762    1823    1887    1953
Italian Drugs Grant                             3755       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Dutch Drugs Grant                                  0    2549    2443    2478         0       0        0        0
IDA funding for CDC drugs                        870     896      923     941      962       0        0        0
Total Resources                                 9848    9283    9641   10787   12419   12316   13615   14798
Fund Surplus Avail, for Other Health Sector Costs  2881    4959    4535    4737   .5203    4652   .5476    6.154
Health Sector
Resources
Reg. Salary & Allowpncas Budget                 8234    9222    9499    9594    9690    9787   10129   tQ484
Govt. Non-Salary Budget                         4447    3328    3428    3462    3497    3532    3656    3784
External Sources
IDA Credt                                    14304   13432    5936    2496    1240          0        0       0
UK Grant                                      2081    2081    1800       600        0       0        0       0
Itlian Grant                                 29315   13109   22029    3520         0        0        0       0
China Grant                                   3750    3750         0       0        0       0        0       0
Nethdiancs Grant                              tO53    3645    264.3        a      13        0        0       0
UNCDF Grant                                     904    1446      825       0        0       0        0        0
Revovn Fund Surplus                             2340    4369    3890    4033    4413    3767    4483    5038
Total Sources                                 66198   54758   50180   23836   18985   17552   18750   19805
Applications
Project Capital Investment                    52792   40004   33774    5877        357       0        0        0
Project Recurrent Costs                         1197    1183    1222    1086    1050         0        0        0
Regular Saries and Allowanoss                   9307    9849   10194   10540   10887   11595   12001   12421
Non-Saly Recurrent Costs                        2948    4068    4791    5623   .5834    6321    6665   6898
Total Applications for Health Sector          66244   55104   49981   23126   18328   17917   18666   19319
Surpik or Deficit                                -47    -346      199     710      657    -364       84     486
Cumulative                                       *47    -393    -194      516    1173      808      893    1378
Indicators
Tota Expenditures/tapita                      $11.14   $8.96    $789    $3.54   $2.73   $2.59    $262    $2.63
Recurrent Expenditures/capita                 $2.26   $2.45   $2.56    $2.64   $2.64   S2.59    $262    $2.63
Cost R4covery/ capita                          $0.60   $0.68    $072    $087    $1.44    $1.52    $1.64   $1.75
Cost Recovery/Recurrent Expenditures            27%      28%     28%      33%     55%      59%     63%      66%



- 59 -
Annex 10 ,1
Page 2 of 3
THE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEEALTI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Source and Applications of Funds Statement - The Gambia Health Sector
1986/87  -  1992/93
Fiscal Year  1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
Sources              (net of financial commitments to Revolving Fund)
Reg. Salary & Allowances Budget        8234    9222    9499    9594    9690    9767   0129   10484   10851
salaries                             6793    7608    7836    7914    7994    8073    8356    8648    8951
hospital temp. labor wages            211      236     243     246      248     251      260     269      278
clerical assistance                     2        2       2       2        2       2        2       3        3
allowances                            1229    .376    1417    1432    1446    1460    1511    1564    1619
Govt. Non-Salary Budget -of vwhich    4447    3328    3428    3462    3497    3532    3656    3784    3916
travel expenses                       243     272      280     283      286     289     299      309     320
uniforms                               73      82       84      85       86      87      90       93       96
library                                 1       1        1       1        1       1       1        1       1
patients' food                        565     633      652     658      665     672     695      719      745
drugs & dressings(net of Revolvi,gFund)    1475  0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
other med. supplies                   413      462     476     481      485     490      507     525      544
MCH materials                          75       84      87      87       88      89       92      95       99
health materials                       23       25      26      26       26      27       28      29      30
in-service training                    25      28      29       29      29       30      31       32      33
teaching aids                           23      25      26       26      26      27       28      29       30
misc. office expenses                  74       83      86      87       87      a8       91      95       98
vehicle O&M                           480      538     554     560      565     571      591     612      633
gEnerator O&M                         200      224     230     233      235     237      245     254      263
equipment maintenance                   44      49      50      51       51      52       54      55       57
equipmentpurchase                      105     118     121      122     124      125     129      134     138
equipment replacement                  68       76      78      79       79      80       83      86       89
studenrs allowances                   234      262     270     273      275     278     2B8      298     308
contrib. to .nt'l organizations       328     367     378      382     386      390     404      418     432
External Assis:ance: SoUrces       (net of financial comm ments to Revolving Fund)   Total
IDA Credit                                   14304   13432    5936    2496    1240
UK Grant                                      2081    2081    1800      600        0
'talian Grant                               29315   13109   22029    3520         0
China Grant                                   3750    3750        0       0        0
Netherlands Grant                             1053    3645    2643        0      13
UNCDF Grant                                    804    1446      825       0        0
sub-total
Revolving Fund Surplus                         2340    4369    3890    4033    4413    3767    4483    5038
Total Sources                                 66198   54758   50160   23836   18985   17552   18750   i9805



- 60 -
Annex 10. 1
Page 3 of 3
TRE GAMBIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fiscal Year   1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95
Applications:        (net of investment requirements of Revolving Fund)
Capital Investment
Civil Works                                   31912   25997   14322       951        0
Furniture and Equipment                        5225       59   12256    2691         0
Architectural Services                        2275    1800    1800       600        0
Other Equipment                                3656      984     636      291        0
Vehides                                         625      944     917      935        0
Technical Assistance                           3295   10170    3709       372      505
Inservice Training                              328      50      134       39      52
Foreign Fellowships and Study Tours            2472        0       0        0        0
Proj. Prep. Facility                           3004       0        0        0       0
subtotal -Project Capital Investment           52792   40004   33774    5877        557
Recurrent Costs
Materials                                       388     394      400      404     409
Nutrition Operations Research                   122      96      12G      100      130
Incremental Mgmt Personnel Costs                297     303      306      309     316
Fuel                                            390      390     390      273      195
subtotal Project Recurrent Costs                 1197    1183    1222    1086    1050
Total Project Costs                            53989   41187   34997    6964    1607
Regular Recurrent Budget Activities
Reg. Sel. &Allow. Budget-of which       8234    9307    9849   10194   10540   10887   11595   12001   12421
salaries                              6793    7608    7836    7914    7994    8073    8356    8648    8951
,ncremental salaries due to project              85     350     600      850    1100    1466    1517    1570
hospitai temp. labor wages              211     236     243      246      248      251     260      269      278
clerical assistance                       2       2        2       2        2        2       2        3        3
allowances                             1229    1376    1417    1432    1446    1460    1511        1564    1619
Govt. Non-Salary Budget -of which    4447    2948    4068    4791    5623    5834    6321    6665    6898
travel expenses                        243      272     280      283      286     289      299      309     320
uniforms                                73       82      84       85       86      87       90       93       96
library                                  1        1       1        1        1       1        1        1        1
patients' food                         565      633     652      658      665     672      695      719      745
drugs and dressings                    1475       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
other med. supplies                     413     462     476      481      485      490     507      525      544
MCH materials                            75      84       87      87       88       89     120      124      128
health matenals                          23      25      26       26       26       27      36       37       39
in-service training                     25       28      29       29       29      n0       40       41      43
teaching aids                            23      25       26      26       26       27      36       3 1      39
misc office expenses                     74      83       86      87       87       88     119      123      127
vehicle O&M                             480     148      164     170      292      376     591      734      760
generator O&M                           200     224     230      233      235      237     245      254      263
equipment maintenance                    44      58       60      73       74       74       77      80       83
equipment purchase                      105     118      121     122      124      125      129     134      138
equipment replacement                    68      76       78      79       79       80      83       86       89
students allowances                     234     262     270      273      275      278     288      298      308
contrib. to int'l organizations        328      367     378      382      386     390      404      418     432
maintenance, proj. buildings & equipment (@2 5% of value)  1020    1696    2376    2474    2561    2651    2744
sub-total Regular Recurrent Costs   12681   12256   13917   14985   16163   16721   17917   18666   19319
Total Costs for Sector                12681  66244  55104  49981   23126  18328  17917   18666  19319
Surplus or Deficit                    -12681     *47   -346       199      710      657    -364       84      486
Cumulative Surplus or Deficit                      47    -393    -194       516    1173      808      893    1378



- 61 -
Annez 11.1
Page 1 of 1
TE GAIIA
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPME1NT PROJECT
Procurement
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                  Total
Project Element             ICB          Other           N.A.          Cost
Civil Works                     -          13.3                          13.3
--           (1.2)                        (1.2)
Technical Assistance                        3.0                           3.0
Fellowships and Training       -            (2.0)                        (2.0)
Research Funds. Fuel and    ---             0.6                           0.6
Materials                     ---           (0.6)                        (0.6)
Equipment. Vehicles.          1.1           2.2                           3.3
Drugs & medical supplies   (1.1))           (0.3)                        (1.4)
Project Preparation                                         0.4           0.4
Facility                                                   (0.4)         (0.4)
Salaries                                    0.2                          0.2
(0.0)                        (0.0)
Total                         1.1          19.3            0.4           20.8
(1.1)         (4.1)          (0.4)         (5.6)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 62 -
Annez 11.2
Page 1 of 1
m "MIA
N&TIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table V.2 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USSmillion)
IDA Fiscal Year         Semester       Cumulative       Proportion Disbursed
and Semester                                               ---------------
Estimate for    West Africa
this project      education
1987      1st              0.3             0.3              5               5
2nd             0.3             0.6             11              11
1988       1st             0.5             1.1             20              17
2nd             0.5             1.6             29              24
1989      1st              0.5             2.1            37               33
2nd             0.5             2.6             46              42
1990      lst              0.6             3.2            57               52
2nd             0.6             3.8             68              61
1991      1st              0.5             4.3            77               70
2nd             0.5             4.8             86              77
1992      1st              0.4             5.2            93               80
2nd             0.4.            5.6            100              88



Ao Dolo,
't
/  s  S   E         N         E         G
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No II,,,,
Jone K.undo,
,olorighor Ker Ndo-" V
Me.dno      
0Sobo&         Ng"*          M   A
~~ntor  N   ~  oworo                     F. ~         oaifonn               esojon        .2rnunku 
2Foss  [,: dbbiv   ,pntt  N    CO    R    T   H IN,,     K.ndo             B    A    N    K          Sombong        .
kau ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,t~Kpqdo                                              0                                                r,.fO,9  7 
g.                                                              4    S   -           ,       S*r-nB    Ms i                      0 9 ocogtnbl
Xs^u,.    n~~       ANJUL                        I tobo   _'                 _-                                 Geer.;         eSro .5,nc
o                                     OW       E     R     ItI        R    I   V   E d/ -a        d                       /
Y t '  4u*d g           -                                            Manduo, j                                 _
t^^1;! .n    Q X           -^ ,Aloda,                K,.o,g KOrgnobo    oKnebi                                                  NATIONAL
~"nstl f 8f'komat  <3Forobe                          Bsnongao9 AI4& nd 
f;     E   S   T       E   R  N,                                  SordI Job
( t                                                                                                                                             U , i  olvto  HOSPITALS
Ountu                                                                                                                                                   0 t    MODEL. HFA
0    HtAL TH CEI
tKbrlwv                                                                                                                                                       [15DISPIFNSARI
E i0Trc'                    2 2                 Al_so                                                         A    IRAINING Si
D~o0olo.to -- 9AtlN
0  rPs O             !C)             30 30                                                              -      PHC EXTEN!
HFa lTH f ACILITIE
0    HE At 1H CEP
r0 2,g~,,n(Ao,f



IBRD 19
5  tn,s ?;da] r,as beerJ areared Dr        /        v,       M AU R ITAN I A
The Witd i3Ban, f stagf eOClAuSIV0,
fo, 'he conw'ncet)C6 of the                             '
'eade,s and ~s exdks,v*i to, ffeI.\     
"'fenaiu,ae of The KO Booar*                  SE NE GAL      Y'
G          A           L                                                                                           T,e,n., ";. 0 rr, B n r HE s E   N E  GA L I
G  Copmt,on The denohnNBti       GAMUBIs-'
"Jadtebolindares showVh          baeiu 
JtIs mac Jo nOt rr  h the o. m
rat T 't, Woidrtd BaSn and th,             _,
striolna' t mance ('rupcye:o'          GUINEA    p
tCvm ,, mJet       Iheoai status  e BISSAU            G U I N E A
,,, ,  J~< 2a",rrSena  /l \._                                                 ,
SIERRA
@Nitou                                      \                                                                                          LEONE
AOK&U-UI   fiC<orrn-n ?'dLs \                                                                        i LIBERiA  )
otokoi1 9+                                                      ~     > 
M A   C,   C A  R  T    Y Y
_ tobpI Fu  \Kunoo                             S I  n L                                                                                                  -
';~I. so                S'~             onkuIK ndok                                                                                   1
YoroBer, K.do              ~                                                                                     Kor
S    L   -4.  N    D             J'                  _Ed,G
T H E  G A M B I A                       _                      *\                      ,R I                            V P  R Ku       7
-  K                                                                     K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KCntdel
)NAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT \                                                                     -
Project Health Facilities                                                                                      K doa
LTH FACILITES IN PRc,jFC T                      PRMIAPRr ROADS f'A   .                                                        -
HOSPITALS                                      SFrFON1APR  P(,AS)5
MODEL HLALTH Li NTERS                          TRALKS
HEALTH CENT[ PS                                HIVfRS
DISPENSARIES                             *    NATIONAt CAt'ITA,
TRAINING SCHOOLS                               D 3ISTRICT I+Ai)OIAkTF IS           -
PHC EXTENSION APE A                              "lift. .r a Q. AlT   U                '-'  -i"                                                                            13
HFCIIE OV-   -  ISION BOUNI)ARI -S           s          E          N          E          G          A           L
TM FACILITIES NOT iN PR(JC T           _, -   NTrRNATIONAL BotuNDAH1'-
HEALTH CENTERS
NOVEMBER 19h



