Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CO. /            C>40-Cy
Report No. P-4443-GM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 4.7 MILLION
(USt5.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE GAMBIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 29, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dalasi (D)
US$1.00      =       D 7.5
D 1          =    US$0.13
D 1 million  =  US$133.33
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BH             Bansang Hospital
CHN            Community Health Nurse
CMS            Central Medical Store
BPI            Expanded Program of Immunizatcion
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
GEFPA          Gambia Family Planning Association
.CH            Maternal and Child Health
MEPID          Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development
MHLSW          Ministry of Health. Labor and Social Welfare
OSE            Organization, Staffing and Efficiency Study
PHC            Primary Health Care
PIC            Project Implementation Commictee
PMU             Project Management Unit
RHT            Regional Health Team
RVH            Royal Victoria Hospital
SEN            State Enrolled Nurse
SRN            State Registered Nurse
TBA            Traditional Birth Attendant
UNCDF          United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activity
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
VHW            Village Health Worker
WHO            World Health Organization



FOR oMcIAL USE ONLY
D S GDE HIA
Credit and Proiect Samsz
Borrower       :    The Gambia
Amount          :    IDA Credit: SDR 4.7 million (US$5.6 million equivalent)
Term           :    Standard
Project         :   The proposed project consists of two parts to be
Description         undertaken over a five year period:
(a) a program of reforms to strengthen health sector
management, financing, and support system througb
decentralization, reorganization. mobilization of
financial resources. and strengthening of logistical
support; and
(b) a program of investments to strengthen national health
care through (i) extension of the Primary Health Care
(PFC) program to the Western Region including the Banjul
peri-urban area. and expansion of the comunicable
disease control program nationwide. (ii) improvement of
health facilities, (iii) improved training for nurses.
(iv) enhanced health education, nutrition and family
planning programs, and (v) monitoring and evaluation.
Benefits       :   The project will extend primary health care services in
one presently underserved region and in the periurban
areas of Banjul. Str,ngthening of health services will
offer low cost bcsic health care and disease prevention
to many who do not now have it. The project will improve
health status through better maternal and cbild care.
more effective communicable disease control programs.
and through greater use of family planning and nutrition
services. The proposed policy reforms aimed at
strengthening bealth sector management. finance, and
support systems will encourage better use of scarce
resources, increased responsiveness to local needs and
greater financial accountability. Through the
introduction of cost recovery measures. the project is
expected to reduce subsidies to and generate revenues
for the health sector. By establishing clearer
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



- ii -
priorities for investments in the health sector, the
project will provide a framework for better use of
foreign assistance.
Risks                The main risk of the project is related to the level of
sustained Government support to the sectoral reforms
proposed under tle project. particularly those referring
to cost recovery measures. Failure to i.mprove cost
recovery would make the project recurrent costs
unaffordable and would destroy the credibility of the
health system if drugs and supplies are not readily
available. The Government's strong commitment to
undertake these reforms provide reasons to be optimistic
about the success of the project. Technical assistance
and a large amount of project-related training are also
provided to minimize this risk. A shortage of foreign
exchange could make i.t difficult for the Government to
guarantee the convertibility of the Dalasi and thus
ensure the operation of the revolving fund. However,
the Government has clearly demonstrated its
determination to redress internal and external
imbalances and to maintain a flexible exchange rate.
The economf.c program it has embarked upon is being
supported by an IMF Standby and IDA's Structural
Adjustment Credit.



- ii;. -
Estimated Costsl/                             Local      Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
A.  Reforms in Management, Finance            0.3        3.4       3.7
and Support Systems
B.  Strengthening Health Services              2.6      13.0      15.6
C.  PPF                                       0.0        0.4       0.4
Total Base Costs                          2.9       16.8       19.7
Physical contingencies                    0.0        0.2        0.2 2/
Price Contingency                         0.1        0.8        0.9
Total Project Cost.                       3.0       17.8       20.8
Financing Plan 3/
IDA                                       0.4       5.2         5.6
Government                                0.5        0.8        1.3
Italy                                     1.9       7.7         9.6
Netherlands                               0.0        2.0        2.0
United Kingdom                            0.0        0.9        0.9
UNCDF                                     0.0        0.4        0.4
China                                     0.2        0.8        1.0
Total financizu                           3.0       17.8       20.8
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY         1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
- Annual       0.9    1.0      1.2    1.0    1.0    0.5
- Cumulative   0.9    1.9      3.1    4.1    5.1    5.6
Rate of Returns:  n.a.
Staff Appraisal Rexort:  No. 6340-GM. dated January 23, 1987
1/ Net of import taxes and duties
2/ No physical or price contingencies were applied to items financed by
Italy as the civil works being financed by them are almost completed and the
furniture and equipment is currently being delivered. As to the other
bilateral donors. the value of their financing package has already been fixed.
3/ Participation of all co-financiers has been confirmed except for
that of China for which discussion with the Government is ongoing.



REPORT -ND R      R&TZON OF TM   hSPA
OF S  INlTENATIORAL DRVYLOPNT ASSOCIATION
TO IS EXECUTIm DIRECTORS
ON A PRPOPOSE) D LOPHKWI CREDXT
TO IH  REPUBLIC OF THE CABIA FOR
A NATIONAL HALTI DEVOPN' PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 4.7 million (US$5.6
million equivalent) to help finance a National Health Development Project.
The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional financing for the
project will be provided by grants ftom the Italian Assistance Fund (US$9.6
million equivalent), the Netherlands (US$2.0 million equivalent), the United
Kingdom (US$0.9 million equivalent). and the United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF) (US$0.4 million equivalent). The Government of The
Gambia is also pursuing discussions with China on a possible contribution of
US$1 million equivalent.
PART I - T ECOEONY
2.        The latest economic report on The Gambia dated September 6. 1985
(The Gambia - Development Issues and Prospects. Report No. 5693-GM) has been
circulated to the Executive Directors.  Its conclusions are reflected in the
following assessment of the state of the economy and its prospects. Country
data appear in Annex I.
The Land and Its People
3.        The Republic of The Gambia comprises a narrow east-west strip of
land bordering the Gambia River and surrounded on three sides by the
Republic of Senegal. The terrain is extremely flat, maximum elevation being
only 35 meters above sea level. Three regions can be distinguished from the
mouth of the River inland: the mangrove belt. wbich extends upstream for
over 240 kmi; the "bantofaros" areas that become swamps in the rainy season
and parts of whieh are under rice cultivation: and, finally, the plateau of
the eastern portion of the country which is intensively cultivated in
groundnuts. millet, and other crops.
&.        The population (about 750.000 in 1985) is predominantly rural.
some 70 percent of time work force being engaged in agriculture and animal
husbandry. Average population density is 90 persons per km2 of arable land
and reaches higber levels in some areas. Migration to urban areas has been
extremely rapid over the past decade. and urban population growth in the
Greater Bamjul areas (comprising Banjul. the Kombos and Brikama) has
averaged 6.5 percent per year.



2-
Structure of the Economy
5.        The Gambian economy is traditionally centered on the production of
groundnuts. the major source of foreign exchange. Apart from groundnuts.
cereals (millet. sorghum and rice) and livestock represent the principal
products of the agricultural sector. which accounts for about 30 percent of
GDP.  Manufacturing activity is limited. with the principal activities being
groundnut crushing and a few other modest, resource-based processing
enterprises, all of which are located in Banjul. Fishing resources exist
but are still underexploited. The country is heavily dependent on trade.
importing about balf of its food supplies, all of its fuel and capital goods
and moct other manufactured goods.  Exports are highly concentrated, with
groundnut products accounting for 85-90 percent of the value of domestic
exports. Other domestic exports include small amounts of fish. hides and
skins, cotton. and palm kernels.
6.        Outside of agriculture, the most important features of the economy
are its rapidly growing tourism industry, and a well developed commercial
sector, which for most of The Gambia's history has been involved in re-
export trade to other countries in the region. This trade expanded rapidly
in the 1970s. as The Gambia maintained its traditional low tariff policy.
while neighboring countries increasingly resorted to high tariffs and quotas
to protect domestic industries. The Gambia's small size, substantial
openness and heavy dependence upon a single export crop make it an
inherently vulnerable economy, highly sensitive to shortfalls in
agricultural production. especially due to drought and to changes in the
terms of trade.
E-volution of the Economy
7.        In the 1960s and early 1970e. the economy of The Gambia grew at
close to 5 percent per year. one of the best performances in Africa. It had
a strong currency and a sound budgetary situation. However, over the past
decade, The Gambia has seen its economy deteriorate progressively.  Since
1975. the country has experienced one of the lowest GDP growth rates - 1.8
percent per year in real tenms - of any country in Africa not affected by
war and civil strife. Given the estimated population growth rate of 3.4
percent per year over the same period, per capita income in The Gambia has
declined at a rate of about 1.6 percent per year. The estimated per capita
income in 1984 was only US$260. placing The Gambia among the most
impoverished countries in the world.
8.        Several critical structural changes underlie The Gambia's economic
deterioration. Foremost among these is the dramatic expansion of the public
sector -- a major cause of chronic fiscal imbalances after 1975. Between
1975, government employment close to quadrupled and the share of GDP
absorbed by government expenditures doubled, to 41 percent. The rapid
growth of public sector employment and public investment expenditures
contributed to large increases in imports due to the high import consumption
of the fast-growing urban population, especially public sector wage earners.
and the high import component of general government expenditures and
development projects. These factors created a "structural deficit" in The



- 3 -
Gambia's trade: domestic exports (as distinct from re-exports), even in a
good year. were increasingly unable to generate foreign exchange sufficient
to cover the cost of domestic imports (principally fuel. foodstuffs, and
capital goods). At the same time, the softening of world prices for
groundnuts and the hike in the world oil prices combined to bring about a
serious deterioration in The Gambia's terms of trade. In 1982. these stood
at one-third of the level attained in the mid-1970s.
9.        The above factors brought about a significant deterioration of the
overall current account from 1979 to 1983. Severe adjustments that might
otherwise have been necessary were to some extent averted by a massive
increase in external assistance to The Gambia in 1980-81 in the aftermath of
a severe drought and an attempted coup d'etat in July 1981. Total (net)
resource flows rose to roughly US$80 million a year. double the average
level of previous years; the inflow of foreign resq.urces was equal to 35-40
percent of The Gambia's GDP. As a result of this assistance (about half of
which was grant aid) the country was able not only to maintain annual
investment at close to 30 percent of GDP but also to avoid a decline in
consumption.
10.       Although capital inflows declined to more normal levels beginning
in 1983. consumption - particularly government consumption - proved
difficult to restrain. Cumulative balance of payments disequilibria by 1983
left the Central Bank unable to guarantee the convertibility of Dalasis
deposits into foreign exchange. This led to a rapid erosion of confidence
in the banking system and substantial outflows of private capital. As a
result, the country accumulated growing arrears on external payments, which
by 1985 equalled nearly US$60 million (32 percent of GDP). Despite
macroeconomic adjustments attempted in 1984. including a 25 percent
devaluation (para.12), The Gambia's foreign exchange position had become
increasingly acute: supplies of essential imports such as petroleum. rice
and medicine were severely disrupted. and the Government's inability to make
official debt service payments by the end of 1985 had forced most of the
country's major donors to suspend project disbursements.
Government Adjustuemt Efforts
11.       Since 1980, the Government has made increasing attempts to adjust
the economy, including negotiation of two Stand-by Programs with the IMF.
The first of these was a one-year IMF Standby Program of SDR 16.9 million
adopted in February 1982. The program aimed at lowering the public sector
deficit and stimulating production through higher purchase prices for
groundnuts and rice but it produced mixed results. On the fiscal side, most
of the adjustment was a short-term, drastic compression of expenditures on
material and current supplies; government wages and salaries actually
increased by nearly 30 percent under the program. On the production side,
The Gambia did achieve an exceptional groundnut crop of 136.000 tons, but
there was a sharp decline in world groundnut prices and total export
earnings did not improve.
12.       Continued balance of payments deterioration in 1983/84. a decline
in real GDP associated with poor rainfall and crop production, and an



increase in the fiscal deficit led the authorities to negotiate a further
IMF Stand-by Program in early 1984. Policy adjustments under the new SDR
12.8 million Stand-by Program (covering the period April 1984-July 1985)
included a 25 percent devaluation and upward adjustments in consumer prices
of rice. fertilizers and public transport. Although the Government
implemented the agreed measures, it was not able to meet the performance
targets for reductions in external arrears and net credit to the public
sector. As a result, after one disbursement of SDR 2.63 million. the
program lapsed and was cancelled on April 22. 1985.
13.       In the face of an exceptionally low (45,000 tons marketed) 1984/85
groundnut crop and a sharp decline in net capital inflows. the 25 percent
devaluation proved inadequate and The Gambia's economic crisis deepened.
The black market for foreign exchange expanded rapidly and contributed to
the increasing diversion of agricultural production from official marketing
channels. The Gambia's international credit worthiness continued to erode.
net aid flows diminished and a growing number of development projects were
suspended.
The Recoerey Prcogra  (MP)
14.       Faced with these increasing economic and financial difficulties.
the Government decided cbat bolder and more comprehensive macroeconomic
policy adjustments were needed. In June and July 1985. it moved quickly to
develop, in consultation with the World Bank and the IMF, an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP}) which addresses the need to: (a) achieve rapid
output expansion in the short and medium term while laying the foundation
for the longer-term growth of productive sectors; (b) bring the size and
growth of the public sector into balance with the productive capacity of the
economy; and (c) maintain flexible exchange rate and pricing policies in
order to facilitate economic adjustments to changed external conditions and
to avoid economic distortions. critical for a country of The Gambials size
and trade openness. The ERP was approved by the Cabinet in August 1985 and
endorsed by The Gambia's principal donors at an aid-coordination meeting in
London in September 1985. The major elements of the recovery program are:
adoption of a flexible exchange rate system; price incentives and
institutional reforms to achieve a rapid expansion of agriculture
production, both groundnuts and food crops; removal of disincentives and
other measures to stimulate faster growth in other productive sectors
(industry, fisheries. tourism); significant retranchment of the civil
service. divestiture and reforms of parastatals. and adoption of a stringent
core program of public investment focused on (i) quick-gestation projects
producing traded goods. and tii) rehabilitation projects which include donor
support for recurrent costs and lead to higher utilization of existing
capacity.
15.       Over the past year, the Government has moved impressively to
implement the ERP reforms, and positive results are evident. especially in
the operation of the foreign exchange market. expanded agricultural
production. the privatization of rice imports and reform of the civil
services. On January 20, 1986 a flexible exchange rate system (interbank



market) was adopted. A(ter a depreciation of about 100 percent vis-a-vis
the pound sterling, the Gambian dalasi (at close to D 11 to the pound) for
the past eight months. has remained stable. The parallel market for foreign
exchange has disappeared. and the new system i.s functioning smoothly. By
December 1986. the Government had also laid off 762 established staff, 2,700
temporary workers snd suppressed 1132 vacant established posts. constituting
a 30% reduction in the size of the Government workforce. Finally, sharp
increases in agricultural producer prices were implemented in 1985 and 1986.
contributing to record harvests in both years. and overall GDP growth
estimated at close to 8 percent in 1985/86 and over 5 percent for 1986/87.
16.       The Economic Recovery Program is supported by a US$30 million
World Bank Structural Adjustment Credit (including U.K. Government Special
Joint Financing and African Development Bank cofinancing). which was
approved by the Board on August 26. 1986. As of end December 1986, the
first SAL tranche of US$17 million was fully disbursed. A review of
performance prior to release of the second tranche (US$13 million) is
planned for March 1987. On September 17. 1986. the Board of the IMF
approved a thirteen month stand-by arrangement for The Gambia. which is
closely coordinated with our own SAL and directly complements the ERP. In
addition to the Stand-by. The Gambia is receiving resources under the
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) and under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). A Policy Framework Paper, prepared in collaboration with
staff of the Bank and the IMF, was approved by the Boards of both
institutions. The total support from the IMF this year is SDR 13.4 million.
PANRT II - UK GAtOaP OPERATIONS IN IDE GAMBIA
17.       To date, the Bank Group has extended 13 credits to The Gambia,
totalling US$69.1 million, and a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) of
US$16.5 million equivalent (US$5.0 million IDA and US$11.5 million Special
Facility for Africa). Four credits were in the transport sector. three in
the agricultural sector and one each in tourism, education, rural and urban
enterprises, energy and urban development, electricity and water supply.
Implementation of these projects has in general been satisfactory as far as
the execution of the physical targets is concerned. The disbursement
performance has also been reasonably good and compares well with other
similar countries in West Africa. Institution building, however, has lagged
behind. largely due to a dearth of skilled personnel in most agencies. The
situation has improved somewhat in the last five years. as IDA projects are
being increasingly designed with objectives better adapted to existing
manpower constraints in the ecuntry. Our policy dialogue was minimal in the
1970s and, though it developedi progressively, it remained project oriented.
with the IMF being the only institution conducting a macroeconomic dialogue.
This too has changed as our lending has become increasingly policy-based.
Projects approved in FY84 (the Second Agricultural Development and the Urban
Management and Development Projects) and FY86 (Second Highway Maintenance
and Water and Electricity projects) address major policy issues.



18.       The SAL approved in Auguat 1986 finances most urgently needed
imports of capital goods and inputs. It is supported by a UK grant of
US$4.3 million equivAlent and an African DevelopmenL Fund Credit of US$11.5
million equivalent.  The adjustment effort will have to be sustained ovor a
number of years given the structural nature of The Gambia's problems. The
country will also continue for quite some time to face a considerable
foreign exchange shortage. We are, therefore, considering a second SAL
operation to follow the one currently uwider implementation.
19.       While we expect to be heavily involved in the near future in
supporting macroeconomic policy changes and improved economic management. in
assisting the Government in debt rescheduling and mobilizing the
international community in support of The Gambia's rehabilitation program,
the Bank will continue to support The Gambia through project lending in key
sectors. Consistent with a strategy that emphasizes more effective
utilization of the existing capacity, we are preparing projects that focus
on helping the Government rehabilitate economic, physical and social
infrastructure.
20.       Agriculture.  Improving the performance of the agricultural sector
is critical for sustained economic growth in The Gambia. The Gambia has
good quality arable land. reasonable rainfall and diversified cropping
patterns. Yet, over the past ten years agricultural production has declined
by 1.4 percent on average per year; food imports have continued to increase
and now represent the largest item on the country's import bill. Drought as
well as inadequate government policies and institutional weaknesses have
contributed to the sector's poor performance. The main policy issues which
need to be addressed by the Government in order to revitalize the sector are
(i) producer prices; (ii) marketing; (iii) input dplivery; and (iv) a system
of agricultural credit.
21.       The IDA-supported Second Agricultural Development Project.
approved in FY84. the Government's largest investment in the agricultural
sector, addresses the above issues, with particular emphasis on prices, and
input delivery. The project will also help strengthen the extension system
and reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture as well as increase the
availability of seeds. To improve our knowlege of the sector, we plan to
intensify our agricultural sector work.
22.       Transport.  In this sector. our basic objective is to strengthen
and improve maintenance management and streamline institutions. Substantial
investments were undertaken in the past ten years to expand the paved road
network, the Banjul Port and the Yundum Airport. The Government has,
however, been unable to meet the growing maintenance requirements of its
investments. The ongoing Second Banjul Port project addresses priority
rehabilitation and maintenance needs in the sector. The recently approved
Second Highway Maintenance Project will address the long overdue periodic
maintenance requirements of the paved road network; it will also deal with
such important issues as: (i) the organization and management of the
Minist.; of Works and Communications (MWC): and (ii) reassessment of the
Government's priorities in the transport sector including river transport



--7 -
which plays an important role In The Gambia for the movement of goods In
bulkk.
23.       Industry.  Prospects appear reasonably good for resourc-based
processing activities. To be able to ansoit the Government in formulating a
program of action for thin sector as w@ll as other small scale anterprise
activities such as construction, fisheries, trade and agriculture. * small
scale enterprise reviow wAs undertakon ir. February 1986. A roport on the
misuion's findings has boon prepared and will form the basin for a possible
private sector development project. Technical assistance for the financial
and organizational restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and Devolopment
Bank CGCDB). the largest commercial bank and only term-lending institution
in thu country, is being contemplated under the proposed SAL operation.
24.       Water and Electricit  Sply.  The Bank'. intervention in thi.s
sector is aimed at Improving a vital infrestructure and transforming a key
parastatal organization. the Gambia Utilities Corporation. into an efficient
and commercially-oriented enterprise. The recently approved Water and
Electricity Supply Project will achieve this objective through improved
financial performance and intensive training.
PART III - POPULATION. RALTS  MU PETIlON IN THE GASIA
Sector Status
25.       Infections, complications of pregnancy and childbirth, and
malnutrition contribute to a life expectancy in The Gambia of 42 years,
among the world's lowest. Preliminary data from the 1983 census suggest
that the infant mortality rate is about 125 per 1.000 live births. Maternal
mortality rate is estimated around 10 per 1.000 live births, among the
highest reported anywhere in the world.
26.       The most widespread diseases are malari.a, diarrhea, and
respiratory tract infections. Hospital data indicate a rising incidence of
tuberculosis and little decline in leprosy and schistosomiasis incidence.
Malnutrition severely affects infants and young children.  Energy intake of
pregnant and lactating women is below the WHO/FAO recommendations. Coupled
with heavy demands on women to provide agricultural labor, this low energy
intake contributes to declines in birth weights and in maternal milk
production. Malnutrition is the second most common diagnosis among
ehildren.  About 18 percent of recorded child deaths was due tu malnutrition
with a secondary diagnosis of an infectious disease.
27.       Between 1973 and 1983. The Gambia experienced a r3pid expansion of
population -- from 493,000 persons in 1973 to 697.000 in 1983 - an annual
growth rate of 3.5 percent. The crude birth rate is estimated at 55 per
13000 persons for 1983 and the crude death rate at 20 per 1,000 persons.



The total fertility rate is estimated to be 6.5. The average age of
marriage in the rural areas is 15 years. with immediste comtiaencement of
ehildbearing, which often continues until the mother's own healtlh has been
affected by repeated pregnancies.
Strategy for Sector
28.       During the First Five Year Plan (1975-1980). the health sector
shared in an increasing volume of public expenditure. The plan focused on
extending services to rural areas.  The main achievement was the
establishment of a national system of MCH clinics with mobile teams serving
over 100 locations. In 1979 the Gambia adopted a primary healtb care (PHC)
policy which ai.ms to provide by the year 2000 village health services in
all vi-llages with more than 200 populati-on.
29.       The Second Five Year Plan (1981-1986) placed the national priority
on rural development and identified the PHC policy as the instrumental
strategy. The Plan enumerated the resource shifts implied by the policy:
from urban to rural. from curative to preventive. from individual to
community, and from personal to environmental services.  NTotwithstanding
cuts in real expenditure over the lest three years. the Government has
adhered to the policy, as evidenced by the relative shift in financial
resources away from hospitals and the over-achievement of the Plan target
for village health services C260 villages with more than 400 population
each. conipered with the target of 200 villages). The population policy was
also revised in the Second Plan. which acknowledged for the first time the
need for an official family planning program. To reduce maternal and infant
mortality and morbidity and fertility rates. the Government's policy is to
increase birth intervals and the age of first pregnancy.
Health. Nutrition. and EFaily Planning Services
30.       Health Services. Health services are provided through the
Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Welfare (MHLSW). There are three
levels of public health services: (a) the Royal Victoria Hospital (RVH) end
Bansang Hospital (BH); (b) health centers. dispensaries, and subdis-
pensaries; and (c) village health services.
31.       RVH with 283 beds and BH witb 70 beds provide the tertiary level
of health care for the country. They both function as referral hospitals
and training centers. RVH's capacity as a referral facility is limited
because of its heavy outpatient load caused by lack of health center
capacity in Banjul and the dilapidated condition of its buildings.
Conditions at Bansang Hospital are generally even worse.
32.       A network of 16 health centers. 14 dispensaries, 7 health clinics,
and 67 subdispensaries provides basic health services. The health centers
typically have a senior staff of three persons: a dresser-dispenser, a



.- 9 -
nurse-midwife, and a public health inspector. Treatment sessions at
subdispensaries are held on regular visits by the dresser-dispenser.
"Trekking teams" based at health centers visit surrounding dispensaries.
subdispensaries. and other selected locations to provide maternal and child
health (MCH) services (including immunizations) at more than 120 locations.
Most rural health facilities are dilapidated and lack basic amenities such
as water. electricity. drugs. and medical supplies.  Although MCEI services
enjoy a priority in the Government's health strategy; available MCH services
are limited, and were sharply cut back in 1985 due to shortages of fuel and
vaccines .
33.       Village level services are provided by village health workers
(VHW) (usually a male) trained in simple curative health services and
preventive care, and by traditional birth attendants (TBA) (usually female)
trained in maternity care.  Aftez training. they work under the supervision
of a community bealth nurse (CHN). VHWs are provided witb, an initial three
months stock of 11 basic drugs, the sale of which permits restocking of
supplies. Lack of funding for transport, fuel, supplies, and training
limits the effectiveness of services.
34.       The VHW system was established first in the eastern and central
regions, as they were previously less well-served than the western region.
The Government now plans to extend the V11W system to the weetern region and
to the peri-urban areas of Banjul. About 132.000 persons, or ig percent of
the country's population reside in these perin-urban areas. They live in
high density settlements and have little or no access to public utilities or
social and health services. A WHO consultant is currently conducting a study
to identify the most appropriate channels through which community-based
bealtb programs can function in peri-urban areas.
35.       Nutrition Services.  In response to high incidence of
malnutrition, limited nutri.tion-related activities are included in the PHC
progran. Infant-weighing scales and growth charts have been distributed to
CHNls, wbo have received some training in their use. When malnutrition in a
village is identified. however. the only program response now available at
that level is the use of nutrition education messages, a strategy which does
not address shortages of food or reluctance of mothers to devote tin.e to
child feeding during the planting season. Extreme cases of malnutrition
require sending the child and mother to a health center or to the RVH for
treatment, but this rarely happens.
36.       Lack of funding has prevented tlit Government from doing more than
nutritional surveillance. However. there are sizable but uncoordinated
niutrition efforts in the country involving 13 non-governmental agencies and
7 international and bilateral agencies whose impact on nuttrition status has
not been evaluated. Their impact on nutrition, therefore, has been much
less than it could have been. Since nutritional conditions are influenced
by macroeconomic policies sucb as the pricing of agricultural products.
improvements in nutritional status are unlikely to occur until those
policies are made with nutrition considerations in mind.  Better



- 10 -
coordination between the MHLSW, the Mlinistry of Agriculture. MEPID and other
agencies is needed if the severe nutritional problems are to be adequately
addressed.
37.       Family Planning.  Family planning services are provided by the
MHLSW and by the private Gambia Family Planning Association (GFPA). The
HHLSW's family planning activities have in the past been provided mainly at
RVH and BR, and. to a more limited extent, at health centers and
dispensaries. However, under the primary health care CPHC) program (see
pars. 52). training in family planning has been provided to TBAs. VHWS. and
CHNB. and training for other nurse cadres is planned. As training of
village workers is completed. distribution of contraceptives and referral to
health centers is becoming more widespread.
38.       The contraceptive prevalence rate is about 15 percent which is
higher than the 3-5 percent reported for most neighboring countries. While
fertility is still high. the prevalence rate is encouraging in view of the
newness of the Government's family planning efforts. To increase
contraceptive acceptance. the Government must overcome the bias toward large
families. resulting from high infant mortality rates and the perceived need
of parents for economic assistance in their old age from their children. It
also must actively address the related problems of nutrition and MCH and
should strengthen health education efforts.
39.       Health, family planning and nutrition education has been
constrained by lack of tested informational materials and training for
health workers in the effective use of these materials. Coordination of
health education activities has been difficult, due in part to management
and transport constraints.
40.       Health Manpower. The important role which nurses play in the
health system has greatly been undermined by a shortage of nurses and a
training curriculum which does not reflect the PHC orientation. Neither the
preservice training nor the subsequent postings of the State Registered
Nurses (SRN) encourage the development of links with the community level
health activities. The training of the State Enrolled Nurses (SEN) also
includes little orientation to PHC. CHNs, a recently formed cadre recruited
mainly from areas outside the capital, supervise VHWs and provide MCH
services at health centers. Their workload. however. is far too heavy for
continuing effective performance.
41.       Logistical Support.  The existing vehicle fleet for health
services includes about 90 poorly maintained units. of which one-third
should be scrapped and one-third should undergo major repairs. Over 50
percent of the vehicles are disabled at any given time.  Shortages of spare
parts are exacerbated by a non-standardized fleet and lack of maintenance
facilities. The budgetary allocation for operating costs is insufficient
and there are severe difficulties in fuel allocation and distribution
especially to rural areas. Lack of reliable transport has had serious
effects or the delivery of health services.



- 11 -
42.       Telecommunications are unreliable at best and non-existent for
most of the areas served by health facilities. This situation leads to
wasteful use of scarce fuel and vehicles. creates a sense of isolation and
neglect for staff in peripheral areas, and makes routine supervision and
administration unduly difficult.
h43.      Drugs and medical supplies are inadequate.  The budget allocation
for drugs and supplies for 1985/86 was DO.8 million (about $300,000
equivalent at the time the budget was approved). This is equivalent to
7.4 percent of the budget for health services, low compared with other
African countries of comparable income level. Budgeted expenditure on
public sector supply of drugs is D 1.1 per capita ($0.14 equivalent at
current exchange rates) whereas the WHO guideline for essential drug
requirements is about $1.50 peT capita.
44.       Storage conditions for drugs and supplies are generally adequate
but selected upgrading of the building and provision of cool storage space.
better fire protection, increased shelf space and better transport are
urgently needed. While basic systems for efficient management are in place,
strict enforcement of procedures, higher staff productivity and motivation,
and most importantly. regular funding are needed.
Bealth Exr.enditures
45.        Since 1979/80 the Government has made marked efforts to refocus
budget expenditures on PHC. During 1979/80 to 1985/86 health expenditures
grew at ar annual average rate of 38 percent (reaching D 11.79 million).
Capital expenditures during this period grew at 82 percent while recurrent
cost grew at 31 percent. Thus, the proportion of capital expenditures to
t-he total budget increased from 15 percent in 1979/80 to 38 percent an
1984185. During 1980-86 the Government spent 64 percent of its development
budget on PHC and 36 percent on hospitals as compared to 70 percent for
hospitals during 1966167 to 1976/77.
46.       Budgeted per capita expenditure totaled D 23.8 in 1985/86 ($7.43
equivalent at the exchange rate prevailing at the beginning of the year but
only $3.50 equivalent at current rates). These rates are still low in
comparison to other African countries, as is health expenditure as a
proportion of GDP (2.7 percent).
47.       Current bealth expenditures have been increasingly dominated by
personnel costs while allocations for drugs, maintenance. service delivery,
and supervision have decreased significantly. Expenditure on drugs and
supplies is under 20 percent of recurrent expenditures and allocations have
declined in real terms since 1983 while population and utilization of
services have grown.



- 12 -
48.       Rzternal Assistance.  In 1984. external aid to the health sector
amounted to about US$4.3 million, or about US$ 6.14 per capita. The major
multilateral donors include WHO, which provides training and technical
assistance; UNICEF. which focuses on immunizations, drugs, nutrition and
rural health; and UNFPA which provides contraceptives. technical essistance
and census support. Bilateral donors include Italy, Great Britain, the
Netherlands, and China. A serious problem for the MHLSW is presented by the
multiplicity of sm8ll assistance efforts particularly those which relate to
family planning and nutrition but without adequate linkages to health
services. The cumulative effect of the numbers of donors and programs is
that the already pressed administrative capability of the MHLSW to undertake
sound implementation and adequate monitoring is further stressed.
49.       Cost Recovery.  The principle of cost recovery is established in
the public health sector. The operating costs of village health services
are already covered by the beneficiaries through communal incomie support to
VRWs and by partial payment for drugs received from VHis.  Tn 1985 the
Government introduced general outpatient fees payable at all health units,
though the levels are low CD 0.25 to D 0.50 per visit).
'Or&   ation
50.        The Medical and Health Department is responsible for health
services and its head, the Director of Medical Services (DMS) is supported
by the Assistant DM3S Medical Officer of Health, Chief Pharmacist and the
Chief Nursing Officer, and by technical support units (Epidemiology/
Statistics, MCH, EPI. Health Education, PHC Training, and Nutrition).
Management is centralized and the Department is organizationally and
physically separate from MHLSW wbich contributes to inefficiencies of
operation.
51.       Under the Department are three regional health teams (RHT). each
with posts for a Medical Officer, Public Health Nurse and Public Health
Superintendent. Todate, not all posts are filled. and only limited planning
and control over personnel matters and virtually no budget authority have
been delegated to the RHTs. The two hospitals are excluded from regional
administration and have been treated as extensions of the Department, which
must approve all major administrative decisions.  The hospitals do not keep
separate financial accounts nor are there cost accounting systems in place
to provide ircentives to efficient internal management.
Sectoral Issues
52.       As described above, the effectiveness of the health care system is
limited by three major constraints: (a) the inadequate financing of
non-salary recurrent costs; (b) the centralized management structure, with
inadequate attention to budgeting and planning; (c) too few adequately trained



- 13 -
health workers, particularly senior nursing staff. These constraints impinge
daily on services at every level.
Bank Role and Strategy
53.       During project preparation IDA has been closely involved with the
Government in assessing the health system. The main themes which have
emerged from this work - the need for reforms and decentralization of
management, planning and budgeting, reaffirmation of focused interventions
in PHC, strengthening of family planning services and of health manpower and
new efforts to solve recurrent cost financing problems - have become
mainstays of the Government's sectoral strategy, particularly as the overall
economic conditions have worsened and concerns with reform and efficiency
bave spread. As a result, and with strong commitment to its national health
objectives8 the Government has taken the task of preparing a project which
involves substantial efficiency reforms, new initiatives in MCH, family
planning. nutrition.and manpower training. and cost recovery measures.
Success in these efforts will allow The Gambia not only to consolidate and
preserve the impressive gains which it has made with PHC but to extend these
to unserved areas. strengthen basic health infrastructure and services, and
develop and experiment with new initiatives that combine prevention, cost-
effective treatment, and increased resource mobilization to ensure
affordabili ty.
54.        The rationale for IDA involvement is to help ensure the
implementation of the needed policy reforms - which would not have been
undertaken at this time without IDA's intervention - to strengthen
institutions and their management, to help develop efficiency in use of
health resources and to effect cost savings through project design and
investments whicb improve productivity and avoid future high operating
expenditures. With its involvement, IDA has also encouraged other donors to
better coordinate their inputs to the health sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and Objectives
55.       The proposed project was prepared by the MHLSW and the Bank with
the assistance of consultants funded under a PPF. Although the project
predates the detailed formulation of the ERP. it is consistent with and
supports the objectives of the ERP.
56.       The project aims to strengthen and expand the national health
program, including family planning and nutrition activities. It would
decentralize health sector menagement, improve planning, enhance cost
recovery, expand primary health care and family planning services, improve



- 14 -
institutional effectiveness and efficiency. and strengthen support systems,
including the supply and distribution of drugs and supplies, transport and
telecommunications.
57.       The proposed project and the reforms envisaged thereunder are
consistent with the recommendations of the Organization, Staffing, and
Efficiency Study (OSE) which was undertaken, with the assistance of the
United Kingdom, to review the civil service staffing, organization and
efficiency. The modest additional staffing and investments recommerided are
justified by the need to make effective use of the existing resources and
infrastructure of a potentially strong health svstem and to reduce the
unacceptably high levels of fertility, malnutrition, morbidity and
mortality. To postpone these investments during the ERP period while
waiting for economic growth to accelerate would be unacceptable for both its
human and economic costs.
Project Description
58.       The project consists of two parts:
(a)  a program of reforms to strengthen health sector management,
financing, and support system through (i) decentralization, (ii)
reorganization, (iii) mobilization of financial resources, and
(iv) strengthening of the logistic system; and
(b)  a program of investments to strengthen national health care
through (i) extension of PHC to the Western Region and the Banjul
peri-urban area and expansion of the communicable disease program
nationwide, (ii) construction and rehabilitation of health
facilities. (iii) improved training for nursing personnel. [iv)
enhanced MCH, family planning and nutrition programs, and (v)
monitoring and evaluation.
Project Components
(a) Reforms to Strengthen Health Sector Hanagement, Finance and Support
Systems:
59.       The Government would implement a series of reforms to provide
greater efficiency. accountability, improved planning and coordination.
increased resource mobilization, and better logistical support and supply.
60.       Central Reorganization.  The administrative responsibilities of
MHLSW and the Medical and Health Department would be realigned. their record
systems would be integrated, and the key staff would be relocated to a
single office complex. As recommended by the OSE Study, the hospitals would
be made semi-autonomous with devolved management and financial
responsibilities. A Hospital Board would be established to assist in



- 15 -
developing health policies and to ensure their effective implementation. A
Hospital Executive Committee would be responsible for implementing policy
and conducting day-to-day management. The hospitals would establish
separate accounting systems. keep cost accounts, plan and administer the
annual budget, and manage allocated manpower within policy guidelines
established by the Hospital Board and approved by the MHLSW.
61.       Decentralization.  Management would be decentralized at all
levels. Within policy guidelines to be issued by MHLSW, the three regional
bealth teams would have increased authority to manage daily affairs.
including expenditure authority within approved budget allocations.
personnel management within predetermined limits. and control over local
transport. Health center staff would be given greater responsibility for
supervising of village health services and village development committees
would be assisted to play a more active role in supervising the VHWs.
62.       Mobilization of Financial Resources.  To improve the financing of
non-salary recurrent costs the Government would strengthen its cost recovery
efforts by: (a) improving existing systems for fee collection and accounting
and (b) establishing fees for drugs, medical supplies. and services. A
revolving fund would be established which would be capitalized by (a)
proceeds of external grants, credits. and gifts made for drugs and medical
supplies,  and (b) Government budget allocations for drugs and medical
supplies.  Fees paid by patients would accrue to the revolving fund.
63.        It is expected that the revolving fund could reduce subsidies.
improve efficiency and generate some revenues for health care. To ensure
that the cost recovery system can be effectively establisbed and the
revolving fund properly capitalized. assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would (a) ensure that there is at all times
in the revolving fund sufficient amounts to meet the costs of drugs and
medical supplies; (b) pay into the revolving fund amounts lost as a result
of movements in the rates of exchange between local and foreign currencies;
(c) provide the foreign exchange required for the revolving fund's efficient
operation; and (d) use the surpluses accruing to the revolving fund,
excluding surpluses from exchange rate movements. for funding of otber
project components. To ensure that the income from the revolving fund would
not substitute for recurrent budget allocations to the health sector,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would ensure
that its recurrent budget expenditure on health. as a percentage of total
recurrent budget expenditure (exclusive of debt service) is maintained at
not less than the 1985/86 level.
64.        To establish and effectively implement the revolving fund. the
project would provide tecbnical assistance, staff training. materials. and
bandling equipment. In addition. the facilities of the Central Medical
Stores (CMS) would be upgraded modestly to improve efficiency in stocking
and distribution of supplies. and to reduce losses and wastage.



- 16 -
65.       Support Systems.  The MEHLSW's transport services would be
reorganized and improved through a program to (a) replace about 30
unserviceable vehicles3 (b) standardize vehicle types. Cc) institute a
regular maintenance and repair program in each region. and (d) rationalize
fuel distribution including establishment of regional storage facilities and
provision of a tanker truck. A local transport fleet manager has been
appointed as recommended by the OSE Study. To redress the critical shortage
of fuel the project includes a modest allocation for the annual work program
of the health services.
66.    To improve the quality and supervision of basic health services and
PHC, a communications network between the MHLSW and peripheral health units
would be developed. The project would provide about 30 small. solar powered
VHF transceivers for rural areas and slightly larger units for the regional
offices and the hospitals.
67.       About 46 person-months of technical assistance would be provided
to assist in (a) determining resource implications of policy reforms and
staff training. (b) decentralizing hospital administration. and (c)
establishing and operating the revolving fund. Staff training would be
organized to introduce and give guidance on implementation of this plan of
reforms. Materials and operating costs would also be provided to assist the
reform process.
68.       New recruitment required to support effective implementation of
these reforms include a eersonnel officer, five finance officers (one each
for the hospitals and the three regional teams), three finance clerks and
three administrative officers (one for each regional team) and a senior
hospital administrator for RVH. The proposed recruitment is consistent with
the recommendations of the OSE Study.
69.        A draft of the plan of reforms including target dates was
discussed at negotiations and it was agreed that the submission to IDA of
the agreed plan, including appropriate detailed procedures and regulations
would be a condition of effectiveness while Cabinet approval of a schedule
for drug charges and fees for services would be a condition of Board
presentation. Assurances were also obtained that the Government would
implement the agreed plan after its approval by IDA, including making
appropriate provisions for its implementation in the annual budget. In
support of the program of reforms and to address the current weaknesses in
health sector planning, budgeting, and coordinating donor assistance to the
sector, assurances were obtained that the Government would before May 1 each
year during the project period submit to IDA (a) a rolling three-year Plan
for investment and recurrent expenditures for the health sector (including
family planning and nutrition as appropriate) which is consistent with the
ERPs and (b) its annual development and recurrent budgets for the health
sector for the fiscal year immediately following. It was also agreed that
the Plan would be used by the Government as the framework for all donor
assistance to the sector.



- 17 -
CO) Investments to Strengthen National Bealth Services
70.       Prinmry lealth Care.  The project would extend PHC to 53 villages
in the Western Region. Each VHW and TBA would be provided with basic
medical equipment and a bicycle, and the CHNs in the key villages with a
motorcycle for use in weekly supervision. Initial and in-service training
for VHWs and TBAs in PHC and training in basic principles of management and
simple financial control for selected village development committee members
in each village would also be provided. PHC would also be extended to the
peri-urban areas of Banjul, upon completion of a social survey and program
design. VHWs for the peri-urban areas would be supplied with basic
equipment and in-service training.
71.       To improve integration of PHC with basic health service delivery.
outreach clinics, including MCH and family planning activities. would be
conducted by RHTs in all key villages and in larger PHC villages. VHWs and
TBAs would participate in these clinics and would be encouraged to refer
patients. Communicable disease programs would be expanded by providing
drugs, laboratory supplies, and in-se vice training for about 330 VHWs on
disease prevention and treatment.
72.       Improvement of Bealth Facilities.  The project would also provide
for the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing buildings at RVH and BH,
five MCH health centers and five dispensaries; minor upgrading of seven
health centers and seven dispensaries, and the construction of 12 staff
houses, a new bealth center for an unserved peri-urban area. and a new
polyclinic in Banjul. The polyclinic would provide general outpatient
services to relieve overcrowding in RVH and to permit RVH to function
exclusi-vely as a referral facility.
73.       To address the high maternal mortality and morbidity rates, five
existing health centers. selected to be accessible to the rural areas in
esch of the regions. would be upgraded and equipped as special MCH renters
to deal witb obstetrical complications, provide clinical family planning
services and strengthen the referral system. These centers would manage
high risk pregnancies (including caesarean sections). IUD insertion,
surgical contraception and prevention of infertility through the control of
sexually transmitted diseases. Simple houses would be built at each of the
five sites to provide accommodation for wonmen identified as high risk
pregnancies prior to delivery. A boat would be stationed in three of the
centers to ferry emergency cases. Prior to completion of the centers. five
doctors and 10 nurse midwives would receive in-service training abroad in
gynecology and obstetrics to upgrade their skills. During the first year of
their return to service, two expatriate obstetrician! gynecologists and five
expatriate nurse midwives would provide clinical assistance to ensure
effective development of the centers and their starf.



- 18 -
74.       Staff Training.  TD strengtben nurse training. the nursing
curricula would be revised and upgraded to incorporate PHC themes. CHN
training would continue to be conducted at Mansakonko where adequate
facilities exist, exposure of students to rural life is maximized, and
clinical practice in villages are more easily arranged. The project would
provide technical assistance for a nurse-tutor (24 person-months) to assist
in curriculum revision and in teaching, training equipment and materials.
and 24 months of foreign fellowships for two CHN nursing instructors to
strengthen clinical and Lesching skills.
75.        SEN training would be transferred from RVH to Bansang hospital
where a school built under a previous IDA-financed education project is
currently being extended for this purpose.   This transfer would complement
the rehabilitation of BH. improve the quality of staff, and help increase
the supply of nurses in the eastern and rural regions. The project would
provide training materials, equipment. six person-years of technical
assistance, and five person-years of overseas fellowships to upgrade
teaching skills of nursing instructors and senior nursing staff.
76.       In-service CHN and SEN training would be undertaken by a team of
three senior nurses trained in family planning, midwifery and nutrition,
together with the RHTs.  About 12 person-months of technical assistance
would be provided to assist in training in diagnostic and prescription
skills.
77.       Health Education. Nutrition and Familyv Plannig.  The large number
of organizations conducting programs and providing assistance in this field
has strained the Gambia's administrative system. More importantly, the
impact of the resources expended for all of these efforts has not been as
marked as is required and there is a need for better coordination and focus
to these efforts. To initiate thia. the Government would establish under
the Project Implementation Committee (PIC) a sub-committee on the Family.
Health and Nutrition. It would assume most of the functions of the existing
sector planning subcommittee on population within MEPID. Membership would
include representatives of MHLSW and MEPID (the Permanent Secretaries of
which would serve as co-chairmen), the GFPA. the Ministry of Agriculture.
the Women's Bureau, the DMS, the Project Manager, and religious and
community leaders.  An Executive Secretary would be appointed who will be
responsible for developing and maintaining a complete inventory of all
relevant programs and for issuing a bi-monthly and annual progress report
for submission to IDA. The sub-committee would coordinate. review and
approve detail plans for these programs before approval of the annual
budgets. and would oversee the execution of the following activities:
(i) development. by the Health Education Unit of a systematic,
rolling. two-year work plan for family, health and nutrition
education for which a budget for production of materials is
provided. Technical assistance (1.5 person-months foreign and
five person-months local) for the development of the initial plan



-- 19 -
and 12 months of foreign fellowships for the production of
educational materiaes are also provided;
(iS) integration of nutriti.on activities through the development by the
Nutrition Unit in KHLSW of a nutrition action program. The Unit
would be provided with funds to undertake operational research on
nutrition interventions which can be replicated in rural areas.
This would include food supplement programs for sick children and
pregnant and lactating women. group feeding of malnourished
children and working mothers. day care nurseries in villages,
communal vegetable gardens and nutrition education for men.
Arrangements would be made for an annual workshop on health and
nutriti.on.
(iii) In-service training in MCH and family planning for 10 doctors and
40 nurse-midwives from MHLSW and the GPPA and a study tour for
two staff each from the MHLSW and the GFPA to a successful
program in another country.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would establish by June 30.
1987 the sub-committee with terms of reference. membership. and authority
satisfactory to IDA.
78.       In accordance with the Government's policy to reduce fertility
levels, the project would strengthen family planning efforts by providing
clinical family planning services at each health center and special MCH
services at the five MCH centers (pars. 72). Outreach clinics would provide
clinical services at the village level and provide increased support to
TBAs. The Government would cooperate with GEPA in areas where GFPA's
programs are well established. Overall coordination of family planning.
information. and education. with emphasis on support to VHWs. and more
widespread provision of clinical services would be coordinated by the
subcommittee.
79.       Nonitoriag and Evaluation.  The Epidemiology and Statistics Unit
of the MHLSW would: (a) review and improve, with technical assistance from
the PPF, the current health information system, especially in relation to
family planning, health and nutrition needs: and (b) develop a five year
action plan to guide the Unitts work during the project period.
80.       The project would also support eight person-months of technical
assistance to support the preparation and carrying out of mid-term and final
project evaluations. Both of these evaluations would cover progress in
health policy reforms. particularly on (a) cost recovery measures and the
availability of funds for recurrent expenditures, (b) decentralization of
health services, (c) reorganization of the MHLSW. and td) strengthening of
support systems. The review would also cover progress in the development of
health education, nutrition, and family planning. general project
implementation, and its disbursements. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would submit the results of the mid-term



- 20 -
evaluation to IDA by December 31, 1989 and the final evaluation by December
31, 1992.
Provect Costs aid Finnci
81.       Project Coats.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$20.6 million equivalent. net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange
component of US$17.8 million, or 8b percent oa  Lotal project cost.
Estimates are based on September 1986 prices and recent procurement
experience in other projects in The Gambia. Project costs are summarized in
the Credit and Project Summary.
82.       Continencies.  Price contingencies are based on the following
expected rates of increase for both domestic and international prices: 3
percent for 1987; 1.0 percent for 1988-90; and 3.5 percent for 1991-92. No
physical or price contingencies were applied to items financed by Italy aS
the civil works being financed by them are almost completed and the
furniture and equipment are currently being delivered. As for the other
bilateral donors, the total value of their financing package has already
been fixed. If improved engineering or contract estimates imply higher costs
for donor-financed civil works, the relevant donor and the Government would
agree on a reduction in the scope of work or additional donor financing.
83.       Finr!fRg.  The project will be financed by IDA (SDR 4.7 million
or US$5.6 million equivalent), the Government of Italy (US$9.6 million
equivalent). the Government of The Netberlands (US$2 million equivalent).
ODA (US$ 0.9 million equivalent), and UNCDF (US$0.4 million equivalent).  An
additional US$1.3 million equivalent would be provided from the Government's
budgetary allocations and from surpluses accruing to the Revolving Fund.
Agreement between the Government of the Gambia and the Government of Italy
has been executed. Project assistance from ODA and UNCDF forms part of
existing agreements with the Government. It was agreed at negotiations that
the conclusion of cofinancing arrangement with the Netherlands would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. It was also agreed that the Government
would pursue its discussion with China on funding the rehabilitation of RVH
amounting to about US$1 million; if financing for this component does not
become available, the component would be deleted from the project.
Status of Project Preparation
84.       An advance of US$400,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
was approved by IDA to finance a series of studies including finance and
management. vehicle maintenance and fuel requirements and training of
nurses. These studies have been completed and their findings have been
incorporated in the design of the project.
85.       Initial work for civil works financed by Italy has started.  For
other civil works, the United Kingdom Projects Office (supported by the
Overseas Development Administration) is being strengthened to enable it to
assist in designing the physical facilities. Work on the site plans and
building and s-rvices surveys for Bansang Hospital and the health centers
have been completed.



- 21 -
Prolet Ipleaa
86.       The project would be implemented under the auapicoe  of a Project
Implementation Committee (PIC). chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MHLSW
who will also act am Project Coordinator. Other member. of the PIC would
include the Permanent Secretarieo of MEPID and of Finane., staff of the
President's Office, the Director of Medical Services, a Project Manager and
a repreaentative of the GFPA. The project would be implemented through the
line unit. of the MHLSW under the coordination of a Project Management Unit
(PHU) responaible to tho Project Coordinator.  The PMU would conaist of a
Project Manager and Deputy Project Managor, a project accountant and
clerical aupport.  The PHU would be remponsible for all project matters
including the preparation of annual work programa and budget., procurement
of goods, arrangements for technical assistance. procesaing of credit
withdrawal applicationa, and preparation and submission to IDA of project
progress reports.
87.       The project would be implemented over a five year period.  It is
expec.ed to be completed by June 30. 1992. with a closing date of December
31, 1192.
rra ..rment
88.       Procurement arrangements are sumerized as follow.:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(in US~ millions)
Project Element                 ICB       OTHER      N.A.      TOTAL COST
Civil Works                    -          13.3       -          13.3
(1.2)                (1.2)
Technical Assistance.
Fellowship and Training         -          3.0       -           3.0
(2.0)                (2.0)
Research Funds, Fuel and
Materials                       -          0.6       -           0.6
(0.6)                (0.6)
Equipment. Vehicles, Druga.
and Medical Supplies            1.1       2.2        -           3.3
(l l)     (0.3)                  (1.4)
PPE Refinancing                                      0.4        0.4
(0.4)      (0.4)
Salaries                       -          0.2                   0.2
(0.0)                 (0.0)
Totals                          1.1      19.3        0.4       20.8
(1.1)     (4.1)      (0.4)       (5.6)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
IDA.



-- 22 -
89.        All goods and services financed by the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Items would be grouped into bid
packages to encourage competition and bulk procurement. Local manufacturers
would be eligible for a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids.
Procuremer-t of these items and groups of items estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent, eubject to an aggregate of US$1 million equivalent. may
be through: (a) contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of quotations
invited from at least three suppliers. or (b) by direct purchase where
justified by the need for standardization. Prior IDA review of contract
awards would include all contracts of $100.000 equivalent or more. Sample
post reviews of smaller contracts would be carried out during supervision
missions. Selection of technical assistance consultants would be carried
out in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines on the use of consultants.
Fuel and materials would be procured by local shopping.
Diubrareueta
90.       The credit of US$5.6 million equivalent would be disbursed against
the following items. net of taxes:
a)   100 percent of the cost of civil works;
b)   100 percent of the cost of equipment and vehicles:
c)   100 percent of the cost of drugs and medical supplies;
(d) 100 percent of the materials and fuel:
(e) 100 percent of the cost of consulting services. technical
assistance, fellowships, and operational research; and
(f) repayment of the project preparation facility advance.
91.       Withdrawal applications to IDA would be grouped into packages of
at least US$50,000 equivalent and would be fully documented. except for
expenses related to project administration and miscellaneous operating
costs. training. and contracts of less than US$25.000 equivalent. These
expenses would be reimbursed against certified statements of expenditure.
for which documenration would be retained for review by IDA supervision
missions and by tne project auditors.
Special Accounts
92.      To facilitate the pre-financing of expenditures by the Government.
an amount of US$400.000 would be advanced from the IDA credit and deposited
in a Special Account held in the Central Bank of the Gambia under the
control of the Project Director. The Special Account would cover about
three months of estimated project expenditures. In order to ensure that the
Government's counterpart financing is promptly available, the Government



- 23 -
would establish in a commercial bank a separate replenishable project
account in local currency of about US$20,000 equivalent. Opening of this
account and depositing the initial amount of would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
Account. and Audits
93.      It was agreed at negotiations that the revolving fund (para. 62)
the special account (para. 92), and all project accounts to be maintained by
PMU would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA.  Certified
copies of the audited accounts would be forwarded to IDA for review within
six months after the end of each fiscal year. Quarterly reports on the
progress of project implementation would also be submitted to IDA and a
project completion report would be submitted within six months of the
closing date.
Project Benefit. and Rliks
94.      Benefits.  The project will extend PHC services in presently one
underserved region and in the peri-urban areas of Banjul. Strengtbening of
health services will offer low-cost basic health care and disease prevention
to many who do not now have it. Because adequate baseline health and
fertility data are unavailable. it is difficult to predict and quantify the
expected healtb and fertility impact of the project. The monitoring and
evaluation component will provide baseline data during the project, thus
providing a basis for discerning trends. Nevertheless. it is expected that
the project would improve health status througb better msternal and child
care. more effective communicable disease conrrol programs. and through
greater use of family planning and nutrition services.
95.       The proposed reforms aimed at strengthening health sector
management, finance, and support systems will encourage better use of scarce
resources. increased responsiveness to local needs. and greater financial
accountability. Through the introduction of cost recovery measures. the
project is expected to gradually reduce subsidies to and generate revenues
for the health sector. By establishing clearer priorities for investments
in the health sector. the project will provide a framework for better use of
foreign assistance.
96.      Risks.   The main risk of the project is related to the level of
sustained support to the sectoral reforms proposed under the project.
particularly those referring to cost recovery measures. Failure to improve
cost recovery would make the project recurrent costs unaffordable and would
destroy the credibility of the health system if drugs and supplies are not
readily available. The Government's strong commitment to undertake these
reforms provide reasons to be optimistic about the success of the project.
Technical assistance and a large amount of project-related training are also
provided to minimize this risk. A sbortage of foreign exchange could make
it difficult for the Government to guarantee the convertibility of the
Dalasi and thus ensure the operation of the revolving fund. However, the



- 24 -
Government has clearly demonstrated its determination to redress internal
and external imbalances and to maintain a flexible exchange rate. The
economic program it has embarked upon is being supported by an IMF Standby
and IDA's Structural Adjustment Credit.
PR   V -E UATI
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber Conable
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
January 29, 1987



ANNEX 1-
- 25 -                                             Page l of 2
-mII IC  IDICKIIRS- THE GABIA
MMOSS NATLG4AL PRMK  IN 1985!a                                    AMUALM  RATE OF GRlWni (Z, Constant Prices)
US$ MEln.          Z          1975-79 (Av.)            1979-84            1984
P  t Mlrket Prices                    158            100              3.8                    1.9            -7.6
Gross Dcmstic Irrvestmo t              34             21             21.8                   -7.6           -32.6
Gross National Swings                  -2             -I
Current Account Balance              -36             -23
Exports of Coods, NEFS                82              52             11.5                   -1.7            11.2
lWorts of Goods, NFS                  113           -72                .4                     .2            -1.0
wmur. EMPWNrAND PRIXCFIVf  IN 1984 2'
Value Added               Labor Force                  V.A. Per 1brker
Guswnn.           Z        InihSa              Z             u__             _
Agriclure                           54             28           232             70             233            39
Industry                           25              13            30             9              833           141
Services and Unallocated           117             59            69             21           1,6%            2B6
Total /  erav e                1%             100           331            100             592           100
CEIRAL GOVEUIDf FD4MCE                        D. Min.                                   Percent of GP
I q5 a!                        19s:) ar                   L%r/ af
Current Recei ts b/                            147                               23                        23
Current Epiture                                150                               23                        21
Current  aLa                                    -3                              I0 
Develpmet Expenditure                         109                               17                         12
(9verall Baice                                -112                              -17                       -10
1980           1981            1982             1983            1984
Pul-Iaions or aiasis, * IUtsLxIng MTf-June)
TDEY, CREDrl AND PRICES
ltney S   ly                                                 90              104             135              13;
Bank CM         to Government (net)          27              55               37              75              7S
Bank Credit to Private Sector                91              98              105             131             158R
Bank Credit to Public entities               56              69              98              142              161
(Percentage or Idex Nuirhers)
Itney as % of CIM                          17.9            21.9            23.0             29.6            '2.2
G,eneral Price Index (198-.L984)          :on.n          I8.'             hIA.Q           127.7             1-
Annual Percentage (hmange in:
Ceneral Price Tndex                         9-0              i.)            .S. 
Rank Credit to Covernment (net)              -            101.7           -32.7 1' 2.7 -7.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                -              7.7              7.1            t4. 8           211%
Bank Credit to Public entities               -             23.2            4t.0             44.9            11-.
a/  tisca  year endlfl June itlth.
SI ExcLuding 32 1). rl. grants.



ANNEX1
-26-                                                Page 2 of 2
BALAM OF PAVE=S1                                                 M?IA    SE ETWS (1982-85 AVERACE)
1982   1983  1984  1985                                    (USS Mln.)    3
Egports of Goods, NFS         100.3  105.6  107.0  81.9           Grounhmts                  22.3    86.8
Laports of Goods, NFS         142.3  131.7  135.9  112.8          Fish and Fish Pmducts       1.8      7.0
Pmzouce cap                   -42.0  -26.1 -28.9 -30.9            All Other Goods             1.6      6.2
dmstc  EXpuorts            23i77   flOU
Interest Payt  ad                                                 Dw t
Other Factor Paynts (net)    -5.4   -9.1  -7.8  -8.2              Repors a/                  53.9
Private Transfers (net)         3.0    2.6   2.4   3.6            Total Hirrdaxise exports  79.6
Balmce on Oirrent Acoutn    -44.3  -32.5 -34.3 -35.5              FEIrlNL DElF AS OF DEIEMER 31, 1984
U' -u0: n.
Direct nestmnnt                  .5    -.1   -.1  -0.0
Offiecil Transfers and Grants  43.8   35.3  30.4  29.9            Public Debt, Icl. Guaranteed        264.7
Pblic M 6 LT forrorng (ret)  30.1   13.5  10.1   7.9              Non-Qzarateed Private Debt
Disbursamnes                34.7   2D.3  14.4  18.6            Total OuRstarirng ard Dishwsed      264.7
Mrtizal                      4.6    6.B   4.3 -10.7                                       b
Odier CIpital (0ec)           -46.9  -48.0 -20.0  -7.5            DET SEVIICE RATIO FOR 1984 Y           %
diange in Official Reserves   -16.8  -31.8  -13.9  -5.2          tLUb.lc Llebt, WID. taranceed         1j.h
tne)     - increase)                                          Nln-Qiaranteed Private Debt
Total Chzctarxlng and Disbursed      19.6
Net Foreir Assets             -65.9  -92.0  -96.9  -69.1
(end Jun-)
Pecrolea  limorts              14.0   13.0  14.5  13.0            IBD/MA LEND1E AS OF MARC 31, 1986
u an.
-rs
OJscardXig and Disbursed -      34.2
Ldisbursed                      21.9
rutstanding Thcl. Lbdisbursed    So. t
RATE OF ECHA
Amral Average                              End Period
1 %J.            198 VW Lvj  14      1)jurte 19&
US$ 1.00 - Dlasis         1.97      2.29      2.64     3.58      4.09                  7.0
a/ Includes staff estimates of unrecorded reexports.
'/ Excluding 1W paynts.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TIIE GAMBIA *
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1986)
Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                   (USS million)
Number    Year        Borrower           Purpose                    IDA 1/ Undisbursed lf
Six credits fully disbursed                                          22.49
897-GM    1979       The Gambia       Highway Maintenance            5.00        0.10
Project
1187-GM    1981       The Gambia       Energy Project                 1.50        0.22
1266-GM    1982      The Gambia       Second Banjul Port              6.50        1.87
Project
1443-GM    1984      The Gambia       Urban Management and           11.50       10.02
Development
1476-GM    1984      The Gambia       Second Agricultural             9.40        8.94
Development
1682-GM 4/ 1986      The Gambia       Second Highway                  5.80        6.43
Maintenance
1724-GM 3/ 1986      The Gambia       Water Supply and                7.00        7.64
Electricity
1730-GM 4/ 1986       The Gambia       Structural Adjustment          5.00        5.22
Program
A-22-GM 4/ 1986       The Gambia       Structural Adjustment          11.50      11.89
Program
Total                         85.69       52.33
of which has been repaid    0.39
Total now held by IDA 2/      85.30
Total undisbursed             52.33       52.33
11   Beginning with Credit 1187-GM, Credits shown here have been denominated in Spectal
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalent at the time of credit negotiations for the "IDA" amounts and the dollar
equivalents as of September 30, 1986, for the "undisbursed" amounts
(1 SDR - US $1.21342).
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Not yet signed.
4/   Not yet effective.
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal Year             Obligor              Type of Business    Loan  Equity        Total
1983            Kombo Beach Hotel Ltd.         Tourism Hotel       2.9      -         2.9
Total Gross Commitments
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                                      2.9     -         2.9
Undisbursed Balance                                0.0     -         0.0



29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
u&noa nuam DOslIKM PROrCT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Bwentu
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare project: 19 months
(b)   The project was prepared by: NHLSW
(c)   Date of first presentation to IDA: December 1984
(d)   Date of first mission to consider the project: April 1985
(e)   Appraisal mission: January 1986
(f)   Completion of negotiations: November 1986
(g)   Planned credit effectiveness: May 1987
Section II: Special IDA Iuplonentstion Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Board Presentation:
(i) Cabinet approval of a schedule for drug charges and fees for
services (para. 69).
(b) Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(i) Government to submit to IDA a plan of sectoral reforms including
appropriate detailed procedures and regulations (para. 69);
(ii) Government to conclude cofinancing agreement with the
Netherlands (para. 83); and
(iii) Government to establish in a commercial bank a project account
and deposit an initial amount of US$20.000 equivalent (para. 92).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Other Conditions
Ci)  the Government would ensure that there is at all times in the
revolving fund amounts sufficient to meet the costs of drugs and
medical supplies; provide foreign exchange required for the Fund's
efficient operation; pay into the Fund amounts lost from movements
in the rates of exchange between local and foreign currencies; and
use the surpluses accruing to the Fund. excluding surpluses from
exchange rate movements. for funding of other project components
(pars. 63):
(ii)  the Government would undertake that its recurrent expenditure on
health. as a percentage of the Government's total recurrent budget
expenditure (exclusive of debt service) would be maintained at not
less than the 1985/86 level (para. 63);
(iii)  the Government would implement the plan of reforms immediately
after its approval by IDA. including making appropriate provision
for its implementation in the budget (para. 69);
(iv)   the Government would submit to IDA before May 1 every investment
and recurrent year during the project period (a) a rolling three-
year Plan for expenditures for the health sector (including family
planning and nutrition as appropriate) consistent witb ERPs and
(b) the annual development and recurrent budgets for the health
sector for the fiscal year immediately following: and ensure that
the Plan would be used as the framework for all donor assistance
to the sector (para. 69):
(v)    the Government would establish by June 30. 1987 a sub-committee on
Family. Health and Nutrition witb terms of reference. membership.
and authority satisfactory to IDA (para. 77); and
(vi)   the Government would carryout and submit to IDA the results of a
mid-term evaluation of the project by December 31. 1989 and a
final evaluation by December 31. 1992 (para. 80).



J h O ieto i    W
w
x                   5~~~~ E    N    E 
Niaor6 duRip/
Jane KuLiFa
B~alnghotKa.rNihrr
. HF>ss Kd Sf rN     ;                      ;E -_ ', Sornbanl
Iebbo     ~        N  '~f  R           Kd      -         KI-Sera
ar"                                                                                        X  HBLTrFK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F1;;1,-d
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kne?Cqd                                                        /                 O  HEALThI
Xm SerinS1Ma,0      20     f0  h0 50                             v        ak vnu          yT
.  D;OUEWbU                -                -    , -----      . ~~~~~~JO~   Dn,h9 
I K    MILES 0           ;D         tt           3D              _                            -   PHC E
8md    E,*T ERBudamJi  J~*                                                                          HEALTH FAC
=~~~~~~~~ -4                  u8;"srowen
Nj u  egfulwo                                      lari~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o HELT
W   E   R           I          IV E R -                            E:
S. T   E  R                    nlel                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEALTH FAC
o   HEALTI
K:rtuA DISPET ,. ;
,=,-~~~~~~~~~~~ciOATR - -.:                                0       0       5                                          A TAN



IBRD 19657
;.  rnulhns rujf pfadby                /       N        MAURITANIA
TIn' tfi n  a aPiSF axchjuvafr
for (he csrwmjanca ofti Anr.-                                           
'Wtmrn d a nsee T      .N                SENEGAL    Y
rBnif O oar The K    a"AIJ 111         
AiLed 0*  el nThiw  1r1                  S  THE                MALI
A Lporarnn TI. aim-           GAMBIAr
use wet te NW wwm n                 enIu Boni
or?l W ap dir, Mnd an me                                          I.,
pw o rh War;d Bs  aW g  w.  
W*nWknt   Paw Crwak.n              GUINEA  ,                       S
flyudg tai on gee kaf stEIwk       BLSSAU   /         U I N E A     r
oWf m tndwy a arny
ntdo'nnr nt or accwi:v o                                ... .1
Such- boujndwws
:-. -_.,,- -                Nu                                                                                   SIERRA
'Nj..4 {? --;-Js             )         \                                                                                 LEONE i             COVE
*. 52enuumn'n  '                        '                                                                                     -      Nitu D VOIRE
A -< - -  '-   1                                                                                                    /kur  \  i LIBERIA )
r ikaea                              e ' %,M
D KundoSutuka_--a, 
w-rS~~~~~~~~~                         Georgetown         KoneahX
(,w'A> R\ r '1/ H"Y \ ~~~~~~ \  
V t_,  _  I %aol lg   ' \.,~ ' M   \Jiruraef  1rw \
bkoIi8 So             Brikilosa   o  sonleuli Kuedafl--                                                4 ;         S m 5uh1oha    43Saifee  _t...
o                               -'nd' Vot Sari                   r~8t              ~    ~s               oE      R , Kundo2  C  V             t-1 *    
AU      \ sa~s.i~?            Diubugu           T Do        , Kulori           .    Kantlo
T H E  G A M B I A                                                                                                                  K _.8s, -,   -    \ R   I  - Rund"'
THE  GAMBIA                              _           D..h.g.             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R I V  V R
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 Ase Santa ...-' -
Project Health  Facilities                                                      GamKubssrr,    -n                           ,
IES IN PROJECT                   PRIMARY ROADS (PAVED)
-'                        - -  SECONDARY ROADS
ALTH CENTERS              ---TRACKS
WiNTERS                           RIVERS                                                                            Ve in-ga
IIES                        6    NATIONAL CAPITAL
SCHOOLS                     *    DISTRICT HEADOUARTERS
-ISION AREA                     DIVISION HEADOUARTEFIS             6Z'SAor                                                                        13
IES-NOT IN PROJECT         -     DIVISION BOUNDARIES              S         E                   E         G         A
N  -.    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ENTERS
IS'
NOVEMBER 1986



I



