CREDIT NUMBER 1760 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(National Health Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1760 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                    , 1987,
between THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMEY ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Government of the Italian Republic has agreed
to extend a grant to the Borrower (the Italian Grant) in an
amount equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand dollars
($9,600,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Italian Grant
Agreement) dated June 17, 1986 between the Borrower and the.
Italian Republic;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands (the Netherlands) a grant (the
Netherlands Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million dollars
($2,000,000) to assist in financing Parts A and B of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Netherlands;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland a
contribution (the U.K. Contribution) in an amount equivalent to
up to eight hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($875,000) to
assist in financing Part B of the Project;
(E) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) a grant (the UNCDF Grant) in
an amount equivalent to four hundred fifteen thousand dollars
($415,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNCDF Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNCDF;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2"-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MHLSW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, Labor
and Social Welfare;
(c) "PIC"   means  the   Project  Implementation  Committee
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "SCFHN" means the Sub-committee of PIC for Family,
Health and Nutrition referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of this
Agreement;
(f) "MEPID" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic
Planning and Industrial Development;
(g) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 16, 1985 and
July 23, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association;
(h) "Region" means a Region of the Gambia as established
by MHLSW for purposes of the health sector in the Gambia; and
(i) "Revolving Fund" means the Revolving Fund referred to
in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 40,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central
Bank of the Gambia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-4-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1997, and ending November 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4,02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public health management practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project:
(i) open and maintain in a commercial bank a project account
(the Project Account) to be used exclusively to meet expenditures
for the Project; (ii) pay into the Project Account an initial
deposit in the Borrower's currency equivalent to $20,000; and
(iii) pay into the Project Account additional amounts sufficient
to ensure that there shall be in the Project Account at the
beginning of every quarter of the year amounts equivalent in the
Borrower's currency to not less than $20,000.
(c) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Association
the revolving fund described in Part A (3) (iii) of the Project.
Further provisions relating to the Revolving Fund are set out in
Part D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1989 carry out, and furnish to the Association for its
review and comments the result of, the mid-term evaluation of
the Project; and (ii) no later than December 31, 1992 carry out,
and furnish to the Association for its review and comments the
results of, the final evaluations of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall no later than May 1
every year up to and including 1992 prepare and furnish to, and
thereafter review, with the Association: (i) plans satisfactory
to the Association for investment and recurrent expenditures
in the health sector (including family planning and nutrition
expenditures) for the three fiscal years immediately following;
and (ii) the Borrower's annual development and recurrent budgets
for the health sector for the fiscal year immediately following.
The said plans shall be consistent with the Borrower.'s economic
recovery programs and shall be used by the Borrower as a
framework in seeking financing from other donors for the health
sector.
(b) The   Borrower  undertakes   in  seeking  financing  for
the health sector to do so on the basis of the health sector


﻿-6-
expenditures set out in the plans required under paragraph (a)
of this Section.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and there-
after maintain, in a form and with functions satisfactory to the
Association a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) which shall
have responsibility for overseeing the carrying out of the Pro-
ject. Further provisions relating to PIC are set out in Part A of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain,
in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Association a
Project Management Unit (PMU) which shall have responsibility for
coordinating the day-to-day Project execution activities of line
units of MHLWS. Futher provisions relating to PMU are set out in
Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain,
in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Association a
Sub-Committee of the Project Implementation Committee referred to
in Part B (4) of the Project. Further provisions relating to
SCFHN are set out in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower undertakes that its recurrent
budget expenditures on health, as a percentage of the Borrower's
total recurrent budget expenditures (exclusive of debt service),
shall be maintained at not less than the 1985/86 recurrent budget
expenditures levels.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the Revolving Fund, the Special Account and
the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿-7-
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently  applied, by   independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
b.ut in any case not later than six months ,after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of..thp.
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in, such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Revolving Fund, the Special Account
and the said accounts -and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in "ich
the last withdrawal from the Credit AccQunt was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable. the    Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any loan, grant or contribution made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
(including   the Italian Grant, the Netherlands
Grant, the U.K. Contribution and the UNCDF Grant)
shall   have   been    suspended,   cancelled   or
terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform cny of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any of the events specified in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 6.01 (b)
hereof.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-9-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Project Account has been opened and the
initial deposit required under Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
has been paid in;
(b) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Netherlands Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than
the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(c) that the Borrower has furnished the Association with
a sectoral reform plan satisfactory to the Association for
strengthening MHLSW's management, financial and support systems,
including detailed procedures and regulations.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister responsible for Finance and Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of the Gambia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              2264
The Republic of the Gambia


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional lice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed .out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of*
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 750,000        100%
(2) Equipment and               660,000        100%
vehicles
(3) Drugs and medical           500,000        100%
supplies
(4) Materials and fuel          330,000        100%
(5) Consultants' ser-          1,650,000       100%
vices, technical
assistance, fellow-
ships and opera-
tions research
(6) Refunding of                330,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                 480,000
TOTAL                4,700,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project which forms part of the
Borrower's Health Development Program are: (i) the strengthening
and expansion of Gambia's national health program; (ii) decen-
tralization of health sector management; (iii) improvement of
health sector planning; and (iv) introduction of more effective
cost recovery systems.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of Health Sector Management, Finance and
Support Systems
(1) Central reorganization of health sector administration
including: (i) integration of the health responsibilities of the
Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Wealth (MHLSW) and those of
the Department of Health and Medical Services; and (ii) estab-
lishment of Government hospitals as semi-autonomous institutions
under MHLSW.
(2) Decentralization of health administration including transfer
of increased auzhority and responsibilities to Regional Health
Teams and health center staff.
(3) Establishment of effective cost recovery systems including:
(i) improvement of existing systems for collection of, and
accounting for, health service fees; (ii) establishment of fees
for in-patient care, selected diagnostic services and for other
medical services; and (iii) establishment of a revolving fund
to be managed by the Borrower's MHLSW and replenished with fees
charged for drugs, medical supplies and services.
(4) (a) Reorganization of MHLSW's transport services includ-
ing: (i) provision of about 30 vehicles to replace unservice-
able vehicles and provision of fuel for MHLSW's transport
needs; (ii) institution of a regular maintenance and repair
program; (iii) provision of an adequate stock of spare parts;
(iv) establishment of routine service facilities in each Region;
and (v) rationalization of fuel distribution including establish-
ment of regional storage facilities and provision of a tanker
truck.


﻿- 13 -
(b) Development of communications network between MHLSW and
peripheral health units in the country including provision of VHF
transceivers.
Part B:   Strengthening National Health Services
(1) Western Region: Expansion of the primary health care service
to about 53 villages in the Western Region and the peri-urban
areas of Banjul; and provision of motorcycles, bicycles and basic
medical equipment and initial and in-service training for village
health workers and traditional birth attendants.
(2) All Regions: Training of selected village development
committee members in basic principles of management and simple
financial accounting and control; conduct of outreach clinics
(including maternal and child health and family planning activi-
ties) by regional health teams in the villages; and expansion of
the communicable disease prevention and treatment programs
including provision of drugs, laboratory supplies and in-service
training of about 330 Nurses.
(3) (a) Rehabilitation and upgrading (including new construc-
tion) of the Royal Victoria Hospital, Bansang hospital, five
health centers (including shelters for mothers) and five dispen-
saries; minor upgrading at seven health centers and seven dispen-
saries; construction of twelve staff houses, a new health center
for Banjul peri-urban area and a new polyclinic in Banjul; and
provision of appropriate equipment and furniture for each of the
said facilities.
(b) Overseas in-service training of about five Gambian
doctors and ten nurse midwives in obstetrics and gynecology.
(4) (a) Incorporation of primary health care subjects into
curricula of Community Health Nurses and State Enrolled Nurses;
provision of teaching equipment and materials; and overseas
fellowships for two Community Health Nursing instructors.
(b) Establishment at Bansang hospital of a school for
training Nurses including provision of appropriate teaching
equipment and materials, and provision of overseas fellowships
for nursing instructors and senior nursing staff of the school.
(5) Coordination of health education, nutrition and family
planning efforts including establishment of a Sub-Committee of


﻿-14 -
the Project Implementation Committee (SCFHN) on Family, Health
and Nutrition, operational research on nutrition intervention,
production and dissemination of materials for health education
and in-service training for doctors and nurse midwives in family
planning and maternal and child health care.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1,   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages of amounts that would encourage
competition and bulk procurement.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the
Gambia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Items estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less than
$100,000 up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000 may
be procured: (i) under contracts awarded on the basis of compari-
son of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
supplifers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, or (ii) if of a
proprietary nature or subject to standardization by direct
shopping.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 16 -
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of emv.loyment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categorips (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervalp as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Accognt and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 18 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedul.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests ,replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for 'any


﻿- 19 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Associatiov, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
PIC, PMU, SCFHN and Revolving Fund
Part A:   Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
The membership of PIC shall include the following:
Permanent Secretary, MHLSW        -   Chairman and
Project Coordinator.
Permanent Secretary, MEPID        -   Member
Permanent Secretary, Ministry     -   Member
of Finance
Nominee from President's Office   -   Member
Director of Medical Services      -   Member
Project Manager                   -   Member
Representative of the             -   Member
Gambia Family Planning
Association (GFPA)
Part B:   Project Management Unit (PMU)
PMU shall consist of the Project Manager, Deputy Project
Manager, a project accountant and clerical support. PMU shall
be responsible for all Project matters and for the coordination
of day-to-day Project execution activities of the line units
of MHLSW. PMU shall assist in the preparation of annual work
programs and budgets for Project components, procurement of goods
and arrangements for technical assistance, processing of credit
withdrawal applications and preparation and submission to the
Association of Project progress reports.
Part C:   Sub-Committee on Family, Health and Nutrition (SCFHN)
(1) The membership of SCFHN shall include the following:
Permanent Secretary, MHLSW        -   Co-Chairman
Permanent Secretary, MEPID        -   Co-Chairman


﻿- 21 -
A representative of the Gambia - Member
Family Planning Association
A representative of the Ministry -    Member
of Agriculture
A representative of the Women's   -   Member
Bureau
The Director of Medical           -   Member
Services
Nominated religious and           -   Members
community leaders
Project Manager                   -   Member
(2) An Executive Secretary shall be appointed for SCFHN.
(3) SCFHN shall assume most of the functions of the existing
MEPID sector planning sub-committee on Population. The Executive
Secretary shall be responsible for developing and maintaining a
completed inventory of all relevant Family Planning, Health and
Nutrition programs in the Gambia and for issuing to SCFHN a
bi-monthly progress report on such programs. SCFHN shall be
responsible for the coordination, review and approval of the
detailed plans for these programs before approval of the annual
budgets therefor.
(4) SCFHN   shall   oversee  the   execution  of   the  following
activities:
(i) development by MHLSW's Health Education Unit of a
systematic, rolling, two-year work plan for family
planning, health and nutrition educational messages and
information;
(ii) improved coordination    and integration   of nutrition
programs (including a nutrition action program devel-
oped by MHLSW's Nutrition Unit); and
(iii) in-service training for about 10 doctors and 40 nurse
midwives from MHLSW and GFPA in family planning and
maternal and child health programs, issues and techni-
ques and a study tour of staff of MHLSW and GFPA.


﻿- 22 -
Part D:   Revolving Fund
(1) The Revolving Fund shall be in the Borrower's currency
and shall consist of amounts equivalent in such currency to:
(a) proceeds of external grants, credits and gifts made for drugs
and medical supplies, (b) allocations made in the Borrower's
budget for the purchase of drugs and medical supplies during the
project period, and (c) fees paid by patients for drugs, medical
supplies and services.
(2) The Borrower undertakes to take such action as shall be
necessary (including adjustments in the levels of fees payable
for drugs, medical supplies and services) to ensure that there is
at all times in the Revolving Fund amounts sufficient to meet the
costs of such drugs, medical supplies and services.
(3) The Borrower undertakes to pay into the Revolving Fund
amounts equivalent to amounts lost to the Revolving Fund as a
result of movements in the rates of exchange between the Bor-
rower's currency and any other currencies. Any increases in the
amounts in the Revolving Fund as a result of such exchange rate
movements shall accrue to the Borrower.
(4) The Borrower undertakes to facilitate promptly as needed
the provision of foreign exchange required for the efficient
operation of the Revolving Fund.
(5) The Borrower shall use any surpluses accruing to the
Revolving Fund, not being surpluses resulting from exchange rate
movements referred to in Part D (3) above, for funding of other
components of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


