Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.7621-TUN
STAFF APFRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
;hs doeumet has a res d d_sbon _ad may be used by recipient "ii the perfXim   of



CURRENCY EQUVALENIS
The exchange rate for the Tunisian Dinar is floating.
The rates used is this report are the ones officially
quoted as of April 13, 1989:
1 'Tuni-sian Dinar (TD) - US$ 1.07
1 US Dollar (US$)       =  TD  0.94
WEIGHIS A,D MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFH       - Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (Land Development Agency)
BCT       - Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BE        - Banque de l'Habitat (Housing Bank)
CENT      - Caisse d'Epargne Nationale Tunisienne
(National Savings Fund)
CNEL      - Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (Savings and Loan Fund)
CNRPS     - Caisse Nationale de Retraite et de Pr6voyance Sociale
(Social Security and Retirement Fund)
CNSS      - Caisse Nationale de S6curit6 Sociale (Social Security Fund)
CPF       - Conservation de la Propriete Fonci&re (Land Registry)
DGATU     - Direction G6n6rale de l'Aminagement et de l'Urbanisme
(Directorate of Regional and Urban Planning)
DT        - D.-strict de Tunis (District of Tunis)
FNAH      - Fonds National d'Am6lioration de  l'Rabitat
(National Housing Improvement Fund)
FOPROLOS - Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement des Salari6s
(Workers' Housing Fund)
IFC       - International Finance Corporation
LIS       - Land Information System
NER       - Ministare de l'Equipement et de l'Rabitat
(Ministry of Public Works and Housing)
MPF       - Ministere du Plan et des Finances
(Ministry of Planning and Finance)
ONAS      - Office National d'Assainissement (National Sewage Company)
OTC       - Office de la Topographie et Cartographie
(Office of Topography and Cartography)
SAL       - Structural Adjustment Loan
SNIT      - Soci6t6 Nationale Immobiliere de runisie
(National Real Estate Company)
SONEDE    - Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
(National Water Company)
SPROLS    - Societe de Promotion des Logswents Sociaux
(Social Housing Developer)
STEG      - Societe Tunisienne d'Electricit6 et de Gaz
(Gas and Electricity Company of Tunisia)
TI        - Tribunal Immobilier (Land Tribunal)
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBlIC OF TUNISIA
FIFE1  URBAN PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary. ....................................... .   (1)
L     INTRODUCTION                                                          1
IL    SECTOR CONTEXr
A. Urban Growth and the Housing M ar bet                              2
B. Sectoral Isuss.....ue......s. ....0.  ....                         4
C.  Institutional Framework .............................  .. . ...   5
D.  Housing Finance within the Evolving Financial Sector........    8
E.  Government's Housing Policy, Bank Sector Experience and
Rationale for Involvement    ....... ..... * .............   10
DCL    E: THE F      CIALCDUlERMEDIARY .............................   14
IV.   THE PROJECT
A. Objectives ............. .... ............................ .................   19
B . Desc ript ion . . . . . . .0.* . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .... .. . . .  .. . . .&. 20
C.  Line of Credit to CNEL/BNI ............     .a............       21
D.  Institutional Assistance to CNEL/BH. AFH, SNIT and MER...H..   25
E.  The Land Information Management Compo tonent ..................   26
F.  Project Cost and Financing ................................    27
G.  Procurement, Disbursement and Special Accounto....*.....O...   30
H. Audits, Monitoring and Supervision.................-.0......    32
V,   PROJECT JUISFICATION
A. Hosng........s.....n......                                        32
B. Land Information Management ...........................    34
C.  Environmental. Impact     m      p       a       ct... . .. ... . ...... . . ...   34
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECO IENDATIONS ..........................  34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tunisia in
October/November 1988 composed of Messrs. Veuthey (Sr. Urban Planner), Chr6tien
(Housing Finance Specialist). Hovnanian (Urban Engineer), Lacour (Housing
Specialist), Mrs. Engelhard (Lawyer), Messrs. Canel (Consultant: Land
Information), Barbier (Consultant: Urban Regulations) and Mrs. Bodnar (Financial
Analyst). Ms. Muller typed the report. Mr. Lucenet prepared the cost tables and
graphics. Mrs. Snell-Tesh edited the report with Mr. Sterling who also prepared
the financial projections for CNEL/BK.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the prformance
|of their ollcial duties. Its contents may not othesis be disclm without Wofld Bankc authofiztion.|



- (it) -
Table of Contents
Page No.
MSr OF ANNEXES
1.   Estimated Disbursement Schedulu                .......  36
2.   Project Cost Table             ........ .                            37
3.   Caisse d'Epargne Logement (CNEL) .............                       38
4.   CNEL Income Statement and Balance Sheet (1984-1986)............  44
5.   BI Projected Financial Tables (1988-1993)......................  46
6.   BE Definition of Performance In        dicators   50
7.   CNEL/BH Technical Assistance for Transformation................  51
8.   BR Subproject Appraisal Model Form.......                            54
9.   Schematic Description of Housing Sector in Tutisia  *.*.......   55
FIGIUREStrAiBLES
1.   Population and Urban Growth (1975, 1984, 1993).0.060,6e..00....       2
2.   Housing Production (1977-1986) ........ .. ..... ..6.*0.0  ....       3
3.   Housing Demand and Affordability (1985-1991)8......                   3
4.   Interpots and Inflation Rates (1981-1988) .................           9
5.   Location and Amount of Previous Urban Projects (1973-1988).....  12
6.   Investments in Real Terms (1980-1988) ......................         13
7.   Comparison of Characteristics of CNEL and BH ...................     16
8.   Financial Performance Indicators (1988-1993) ...................  19
9.   Project Elements Description*,**             .............  21
10.  Income Distribution and Affordability ...........................    22
11.  Project Cost and Financing .....................................  28
12.  Project Financing Plan .........................................  29
13. Disbursement Arrangements ..................  31
MAP:  IBRD 18707
(0388d - Text)
(0397d - Annexes)



- (i) -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FITH URBAN PROJECT
LOAN AIND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:          -  Banque de l'Habitat (BB)
- Ministry of Equipment and Habitat (HER)
- Ladd Registry (CPF)
- Office of Topography and Cartography (OTC)
Amount:                 US$58.0 million
Terms:                  Repayable in 17 years including five years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project ObJectives:     The principal objectives of the project are to: (i)
increase the supply of affordable low-income housing
programs through mobilization of domestic savings and
through rationalization of resource allocation by
transforming the savings and loans fund (Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne Logement 1CNEL]) into a housing bank
(Banque de l'Habitat [BHU), and providing a line of
credit to this restructured institution for low-income
housing programs; (ii) increase the share of the formal
private sector in land and housing development, and in
surveying activities; and (iii) start modernizing the
land usuagement system, by simplifying the procedures of
land registration and exchange.
Prolect Description:    The project comprises the following three components:
-    housing finance:  the core of the project, which
includes the transformation of CNEL into a housing
bank, with the necessary accompanying measures like
training and technical assistance, as well as a
line of credit to the new bank in the amount of
US$51.0 million;
-    institutional strengthening of the Ministry of
Housing to implement aad monitor the new housing
policy adopted in June 1988 by the Government,
including a new regulatory framework facilitating
private land and housing development and
restructuration of the parastatals SNIT (housing
company) and AFJ (land developer).
-    land information management including the
modernization of land registration and the
production of base topographical maps.



- (ii) -
Benefits and Risks:      The project would improve housing finance by increasing
the private share in housing development, further
mobilizing local savings, and rationalizing the use of
public resources allocated to the sector. Project
benefits affecting land information management will come
from (a) improved security of tenure (legal aspect of
cadastre) and (b) improved knowledge of spatial
development (maps and topographic plans). The main
benefits include the following: (i) speeding up of land
transactions to achieve more efficient land uses; (ii)
expanding the use of credit to finance investments; and
(iii) facilitating land consolidation and land
redistribution, which are essential conditions for
improving the productivity of land. The main risk is
related to the ability of the institutions' management
and staff to effect the organizational changes. Other
risks are the possible delays in the expected increase
o' private sector involvement, and reluctance of those
persons with vested interests in the administration to
streamline procedures. To minimize these risks, action
plans are being prepared by BE and the agencies in
charge of land registration (OTC and CPF) and a
comprehensive technical assistance package has been
included in the Project.



L IDNRODUCTION
1.01    C_rrent Situation.  Tunisia is already highly urbanized and
urbanization is expected to continue at a fast pace. Of the total population
of 7 million, 4 million live in urban areas, 2.5 million being concentrated in
Tunis and three other coastal cities, in which most non-agricultural economic
activities are also located. By the year 2000 more than 7 million people will
be living in cit,es. Current demand for housing is estimated at 45,000 units
a year and is rapidly growing. Up to now Tunisia has been successful in
avoiding many of the worst features of rapid urbanization; slums and
homelessness are relatively uncommon, as indicated oy low average occupancy
rates of 5.3 inhabitants (or 1.03 households) per dwelling. Moreover, basic
utility services have improved considerably over recent years in most urbsn
areas.
1.02     Sector Issues.  The ability to meet future needs, even to preserve
the achievements, is jeopardized by shortcomings in the regulatory framework,
standards and institutions as well as by a lack of appropriate financing.
Substantial inefficiencies in housing and land management have resulted.  Much
of urban housing development has slipped o'it of control into the informal
sector, where official standards are disregarded and utility services are
often difficult to obtain. Where official stendards are applied, urban
housing densities are low and the cost of services correspondingly high. A
severe long-term problem of land registration has emerged; ownership is
assured by the Torrens system of registering rights in a land book kept by the
State, but only 501 of land in use has been registered and only about 32 of
registerable plots have up-to-date titles. At the present rate, registration
of all plots might take decades to complete.
1.03     The housing sector also lacks adequate financing.  The housing
finance agency (CNEL), which financed low-income housing through a contractual
savings scheme, has experienced difficulties because of rigid regulations
concerning saving and lending products and the inability of the State system
to supply housing, which resulted in withdrawals by depositors. Since the
desire for housing is a powerful incentive to financial saving in Tunisia and
since lending for houwing by the deposit and investment banks is limited by
the higher costs of loans and the difficulties of securing collateral, CNEL
had to be restructured to operate with greater flexibility in the liberalized
financial sector.
1.04     Recent Actions.  In keeping wich the broad economic liberalization in
progress in Tunisia, the Government adapted a new housing policy. Its
principal features are: (a) an increase in the supply of land for housing by
facilitating more private activity and by reorienting the public land
development agency towards low income households; (b) an increase in the
upply of financing by restructuring the housing savings institution; and c) a
revision of outdated building and infrastructure startout and updating the
urban planning regulations. In March 1989, the Parliament passed a law
allowing the creation of the new housing bank (BB); El was formally created by
its shareholders meeting on April 28, 1989.
1.05     The Project.  The proposed project would help implement the
Government policy. It aims at: (a) increasing the supply of affordable low
income housing programs by transforming CNEL into a full-fledged housing bank
and by providing it a line of credit of $51 million; (b) assisting the
Ministry of Housing in implementing and monitoring its new housing policy, in
particular a new regulatory framework facilitating, private land and housing
development; and (c) initiating the modernization of the land registration
system.



-2-
H. SECTOR CONTEXT
A. Urban Growth and the Housing Market
2.01     Tunisia is a highly urbanized country with 4 of its 7 million
population, or 562, living in urban areas. Economic activity and urban
populations are concentrated in Tunis (1.8 million) and three other cities
along the east coast. Return of migrant workers from abroad has recently
boosted the pace of urban growth, from 3.22 between 1975-84 to 3.71 in 1986,
compared to a national population growth rate of 2.22. By the year 2000,
Tunisia's cities are projected to house more than 7 million people. This
rapid increase translates into continued heavy demand for new infrastructure,
serviced land, housing, and the financing required to create it.
Figure 1. Population and Urban Growth
I0
; 6                                                 ...............
.........    .
n
.........................
~~~~~~~...........................
.... ............... .................
2
(census)           (census)         (estimates)
2.02     Despite the virtual standstill in the processing of land titles and a
501 shortfall in the availability of servicsd land, thie housing market has
successfully responded to the increase in demand for housing, both
quantitatively and qualitatively. The urban housing stock has increased at
about 5% annually to about 850,000 dwelling units, 701 of which are
owner-occupied and 301 rented. Annual production has averaged about 40,000 to
50,000 units annually over the last decade; in 1984, for each thousand
inhabitants, eight houses were built, compared with five per thousand for
Algeria and four for Morocco. The occupancy rate in Tunisia decreased from
5.6 to 5.3 inhabitants per unit between 1977-86, or 1.03 households per unit,
so that the number of dwelling units is now close to the number of
households. The number of rooms per unit has also increased and access to
basic utility services has improved considerably in recent years in most urbatn
areas. An ongoing successful upgrading program, partly financed by the Bank,
is bringing up services to 25.000 households or 150.000 people.



-3-
Figure 2. Hosig Production 1977-1986
(1,000 of Units)
300
*       Infonnal
Sector                                      23 %
200../i~
Private
Sector     too             0 .
Public                    4             /
Sector       0                           ii57=t
1977-1981          1982-1986
(Source: Retrospective du Verne Plan. Perspecives du Vieme Plan. DvasseLt 1986)
2.03     Privately produced housing accounts for about 70% of current housing
stock. Pzivate individuals building l.egally (with a building permit) and
illegally (informal sector) account for nearly all of the private market,
developers for only 3X. Over the last decade, public housing construction,
catering to middle and upper income groups, appeared to be taking on a larger
role, with annual public housing construction approaching private construction
volume in the late 1970s, at around 12,000 new urban units a year. Housing
demand peaked along with the economy in the early 1980s; with public housing
programs slacking off dramatically to fewer than 5,000 units annually at
present, private efforts have filled the gap. In particular, a quarter to a
half of recent growth in the housing market is attributable to the informal
sector, which caters to the lowest income group, who can afford neither
housing loans nor infrastructure and structures built to inappropriately high
legal standards.
2.04     Current housing demand can be estimated at about 45,000 units per
year, taking into account population growth and renewal of existing stock.
Half of these units are required by the lowest income group under the tenth
pe:centile, 30% by households between the 10th and 65th income percentiles,
and 20S by households above the 65th income percentile.
Table 3. Housing Demand and AffordabiitY
Inmonmt      - Uni    Numbe   Number Annual value Affordable to household
We   avrageos      ot units  of unfts  of the nsw  Incom  (2)
Tqp. of     (O00 TD   ('000 TD for the peiiod   per yew    dm  -
housina E11  In 19888)  In_1888   1986-91         MTD 1988 ..E.month -
minlmun       0-7         5.t  136.600   22.767        126  0-134    0-10
suburbaln    9-12         11    48,40      8,067       89 134-268   10-50
sub. amefior6   13-18      1     31,700    5.283       79 268-350   SO-66
doononiqu    19-28        21    19,300    3,217        68 360 *500  6e-80
lwndino         28        3      35.000    5.833       175  500+      80+
OTAL                           271.00    45.167       536
(source: SIDES 1988)
(1): corresponds to local temInology; the *91i1ngs of 20,000 and 30.000 (1989) TO mendoned In the repo,
correspond here to 19.000 wad 28,000 (1988) TD.
(2): Househoid Income for Tunis. Assumes dounparynt - 20 to 30 % df unit cost.



-4-
B. Sectoral kues
2.05     The main constraint to the proper functioning of the sector is of an
institutional and regulatory nature. Indeed, the institutional framework
(paras. 2.08 to 2.14), in place in the housing sector for the last 15 years,
corresponds to previous policies rooted in State intervention, This rigid
monopolistic framework needs a serious overhaul if the Government expects to
carry out and monitor its recently adopted liberalization policies in the
financial sector as a whole, and in the housing finance sector in particular.
Inappropriate standards, procedures, and regulations affecting virtually every
aspect of urban development constitute, a major constr.int to sector
development making it practically impossible, until very recencly, for private
developers to operate in the formal sector. Another important constraint is
financial: housing lenders' supply of funds has dwindled recently due to
public sector contraction and to lenders' inability to continue to attract
private n-vings for lack of affordable bousizng products once saving contracts
were completed. Finally, the dwindling supply of urbanisable land is the main
physical constraint in growth in the housing se*ctor, making it more urgent
than ever to begin the difficult process of intxoducing new and simpler
administrative procedures for land titling and transfer and better land
information systems.
2.06     The inappropriateness of urban planning and construction procedures,
regulations and standards is not a new problem but the economic costs implicit
in urban development which bypass them has been mountiirg rapidly as sucb
bypassing has become more widespread. The pressure of demand and the limited
supply of affordable formal housing have been such that, bit by bit, practices
which, in a normally functioning housing market, should be the exception are,
in fact, becoming the rule. Administrative and bureaucratic requirements for
private developments have been so unrealistic that the public land development
agency has become a monopoly, unable to supply enough serviced lots to me t
the demand. On the one hand, in informal sector operations, public lands are
illegally seized and subdivided into lots without servicing streets and
utilities. The lots are appropriately sized and contain good quality houses
which are illegally built. On the other hand, the formal sector has been
subdividing public and private land legally into lots which were too large to
be affordable to most buyers. These large lots contribute to the scarce
supply of land appropriate for housing, and the actual density of 20 to 30
units per ha. requires twice as much land the average development built in
similar areas in other countries. This situation has recently improved as
explained in para. 2.10.
2.07     This limit in the supply of appropriate land is fast approaching, but
the basic information necessary to identify what land is settled and what
remains is not available to the authorities responsible for managing it. A
major reason for this is that registration and title transfer procedures are
lengthy and the transfer tax is so high that the land market functions
basically outside the law: only half the land has ever been registered and a
very small percentage of land sales are recorded. If the rigidities in the
regulations, procedures, and norms are not brought into line with the
realities of the market as it has developed, the apparent gains in quantity
and quality of housing will be cancelled out as the physical limits of
developmen- are reached. Urban development will evolve into an increasingly
anarchic process beyond public control, and one that will cost dearly to



rationalize in the future. Moreover, if important adjustments are not made in
the housing finance system, credit for housing (which is a major potential   0
source for the domestic ressource mobilization), will remain outside the realm
of most households, an economic handicap which the housing sector can ill
afford.
C. Instit tional Framework
Overall Jastitutional Structure
2.08     A full range of public institutions has for many years dominated all
stages of land management, land development as well as housing construction
and housing finance.
(a) Housing and Land Development
The Ministry of Public Works and Housing (Ministere de
l'Equipement et de l'Habitat, or MEH) has overall responsibility
for the housing sector and tutelage over the various a&encies
invilved in the production and financing of housing. For
housing construction, these are: the Real Estate Company
(Soci6te Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie, or SNIT) at the upper
end of the scale; the Retirement and Social Security Fund
(Caisse Nationale de Retraite et de Prevoyance Sociale, or
CNRPS, and the Social Housing Developer (Societe de Promotion
des Logements Sociaux, or SPROLS), the housing arm of the Social
Security Fund (Caisse Nationale de S6curite Sociale, or CNSS),
which have built rental housing for their contributors. Other
agencies under the Ministry of Public Works and Housing include
an Urban Redevelopment Agency (Agence de R6habilitation et de
Renovation Urbaines, or ARRU), which executed two earlier Bank
projects, and an agency that constructs housing for families
relocated prior to adoption of an in-situ upgrading policy
(Programie National de Resorption des Logements Rudimentaires,
or PNRLR), and a Land Development Agency (Agence Fonciere
d'Habitation, or AFH).
(b) Housina Finance
The Government savings and loan bank, Caisse Nationale d'Epargne
Logement (CNEL), which has recently been transformed into BR,
was the only financial institution providing housing finance on
a large scale. CNEL/BH also manages a special fund financed by
a payroll tax used for providing targeted subsidies for housing
for lower-income wage earners earning less than twice the
minimum wage, called Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement
des Salari6s (FOPROLOS). The MEH administers another fund
financed by a rental tax for the housing improvement loans to
homeowners and local Governmeats, called Fonds National
d'Am6lioration de l'Habitat (FNAH).
(c) Land Information Management
The land information management, which includes both land



- 6 -
registration (security of tenure) and mapping activities, are
fragmented among several agencies. The main ones are: the L2nd
Tribunal and the Land Registry (Conservation de la Propriete
Fonciere, or CPF) which issues titles, both under the Ministry
of Justice. The Office of Topography and Cartography (OTC)
under the Ministry of Public Works and Housing is In charge of
defining plot boundaries, production of cadastral maps,
topographical surveys, and all cartographic activities. A
number of other parastatal agencies report, produce and manage
information about specific types of land (for example, ARAPPI,
an agency in charge of acquiring, restructuring, and
consolidating irrigated public land), and there are three
separate land development agencies for housing (AFH), industry,
and tourism, ae well as for specific project areas and land used
by each of the technical ministries.
Petfonmiaue of HousiK Sector Iastitutions
2.09     Land Development.  Broadly speaking, the public institutions involved
in housing construction and finance, and the structure within which these
institutions operate, do not function well and have been slow to adapt and
change in response to experience. Further institutional adjustments,
particularly in the areas of land subdivision and housing finance, are
continuing and will be supported in the proposed project. During the current
plan period (1987-91), AFH has acted as executing agency for the site and
service component of the Fourth Urban Project and has been increasing the
share of smaller (100-200 M2) lots it its own program. In October 1987 the
APE board confirmed this new strategy by endorsing a 75% allocation to smaller
lots. However, APE's volume is still too low, its turnaround time too long
(seven years), its lots too low priced to assure adequate liquidity and
working capital, and its staff has increased by 50% since 1981, of which less
than 10X are technical staff, even though its activities have not increased.
A broad restructuring of AFH and its operations is envisaged and a
contrat-programme now in preparation was discussed at negotiations.
2.10     Housing bevelopment.  A similar evolution'has occurred in SNIT.
Created more than 20 years ago (1957), SNIT was until the early 1970s
responsible for "managing" all aspects of Government funded housing
production: land purchase and development, housing finance intermediation
housing construction, and sales. Since the creation of AFH in 1973 and CNEL
in 1974, SNIT's primary function has been to construct Government-subsidized
housing in urban und rural areas, including middle-income housing prefinanced
by CNEL and FOPROLOS, and to purchase and ievelop the land it needs for this
housing. SNIT accounts for about three-quarters of publiciy funded housing
and remains the largest real estate develocer in Tunisia. SNIT suffers from
many of the same problems as AFE: neglect of lower-income demand, shortage of
land, land turnaround time (five years), and financial weaknesses; its
production has fallen down to 3,600 units in 1987. A restructuring proposal
approved by its board in 1987 and subsequently by the Ministries of Public
Works and Housing and of Finance, is now being carried out, and a
contrat-programme is under preparation and was discussed at negotiations.
Information obtained after appraisal in January 1989 indicate improvements, in
particular SNIT's outstanding balance to CNEL has decreased to TD 30 million
at the end of 1988 from TD 105 million at the end of 1986.



- 7 -
2.11     Housing Finance.  CNEL was a financially autonomous savings and loan
institution established in 1974 under the joint tutelage of the Ministries of
Finance and of Public Works and Housing. CNEL's initial role was to mobilize
domestic savings for housing by offering attractive terms to households
subscribing to a four- or five-year "contractual savings" scheme. Savings
mobilization was greater than expected and CNEL quickly expanded the number of
loans granted to subscribers in advance of their savings contract completion.
Charged in 1977 with managing FOPROLOS funds, CNEL moved into upstream
prefinancing of housing construction by SNIT.  In less than ten years, CNEL
became a major player in housing finance, and was the logical choice for
financial intermediary for the site servicing component of the Fourth Urban
Project.
2.12     However, since 1985 CNEL encountered several financial difficulties
(more details are given in Annex 3,. The Government was becoming increasingly
aware of the need for a full-service housing finance institution; CNEL's range
of activity was too narrow for it to qualify. Given CNEL's experience and the
shortage of skilled managers, it was more efficient to change its statutes and
convert it into a housing bank than to broaden its savings and loan procedures
or to create a new institution. CNEL has recently been transformed as the
Housing Bank (Banque de l'Habitat or Be), a process the proposed project is
designed to assist.
Performance of Land Information Maagement Insns
2.13     Overview and scale of Land Registration Issues.  This process of
institutional maturation and evolution as seen above in the housing finance
and production sectors is only just beginning among the institutions involved
with land information management. Tunisia uses the Torrens system of land
registration, in which land tenure rights are guaranteed by the registration
of titles in a land book kept and guaranteed by the State. This is not the
case with the registration of deeds as in France or the USA, for example.
Registration was made compulsory in rural areas in 1964 but remains optional
in urban areas. To date only about 50 of registerable land has been
registered, and only about 31 of registerable plots have up-to-date titles.
Despite some improvements in their procedures and decentralization of offices,
the pace of land registration is still very slow and one estimates that it
would take another century to complete the cadastre of the whole country at
the current pace. Indeed, currently only 3.5 million ha of a total of 16.2
(of which only about half would warrant registration) have been registered, or
about 300,000 titles of a total of 1.5 million, and about 300,000 plots have
been graphically registered of total of 2.1 million. The current average pace
is about 35,000 ha or 10,000 titles per year. The difficulties confronting
these organizations are compounded by institutional deficiencies which cause a
significant reduction in potential productivity and also increase costs.
2.14     Impact of Deficiencies in Land Information.  The importance and
urgency of reformilg agencies, regulations, and procedures involved in land
information management can better be understood by summarizing the associated
activities which depend on smooth functioning of a systematic land information
system. These include urban development, land taxation, rural and urban
infrastructure projects, farmland restructuring, anJ the allocation of rural
collective land. Incomplete land registration means a lack of basic data for
land-use control and planning purposes, long delays in establishing site
boundaries and in registering sites for Government land agencies, and
uncontrolled informal sector encroachment on Government land:



- 8 -
(a) Urban Development. Through its agencies, Government is unable
tc develop land fast enough to meet requirements for urban
development, and the system only starts now to encourage private
developers to fill this gap. In the absence of a complete land
registry (cadastre), Tunisia does not have a workable land tax
system. With decreasing revenues from other sources, such as
petroleum reserves, Government must examine other sources of
revenue, such as an equitable land-tax based on professionally
assessed land values. Such tax could be (and is in many
countries) a particularly suitable source of revenues for
municipalities.
(b) Rural Development. The impact on rural areas is potentially
even more of a handicap to national development. The potent
benefits of land restructuring, the systematic *djustment of
property boundaries to form viable farming units, mainly in
areas irrigated througia Government schemes, are threatened by
difficulties in getting these lands registered soon after the
completion of restructuring and by multiple-ownership. These
difficulties also result in problems in administering rural
credit. Rural collective, or tribal, lands are allocated to
individuals or family groups but the long wait between
allocation and registration causes unnecessary duplication of
effort and delays realization of the benefits of this massive
program;  a million hectares have been allocated to date, with
500,000 hectares currently unallocated.
(c)  Cartography.  Infrastructure projects in urban and rural areas
are also handicapped by cartographic deficiencies. There is an
urgent need to update and create base maps, without which it is
difficult for the water, drainage, and power utilities to
prepare preliminary designs. These utility agencies end up
spending substantial funds to commission urban scale maps for
their projects while needlessly duplicating effort. It is
estimated that about 370 sheets at 1:25,000 scale and about 90
sheets at 1:50,000 scale are needed for many development
projects, in particular infrastructure projects involving roads,
water supply, and power. For urban areas, only 121 of the 1.8
million ha. of municipal land has been mapped at the required
scales of 1:2000 or 1:5000, covering about 60% of the current
urban population.
D. Housing Finance within the Evolving Finaneial Sector
The Fiancial Sector
2.15     The financial sector has undergone substantial change through a
series of reforms that began in January 1987. Interest rates were fixed by
the Central Bank and are now largely free; credit allocations were closely
regulated through a system of prior authorizations and are now left to the
banks; and a money market has been established to replace rediscounting for
achieving monetary goals. There remaina a system of preferential credits with
somewhat lower interest rates for priority sectors (exports, small industries,
and less favored regions), but these interest rates have already been raised
close to the inflation rate and are being brought up gradually to the money



- 9 -
market rate that reflects the supply and demand for funds in the interbank
market. The sector is now in most respects free of controls and more diverse
than three years ago. An inactive stock exchange exists, which the
authorities are trying to revive with IFC/UNDP assistance.
2.16     Money Market.  The primary determinant of interest rates now is the
money market rate, which the Central Bank sets each week through its
accommodation of the banking system's liquidity needs. It has tluctuated 2-3
points above the inflation rate, averaging around 9.5%, until the increasing
liquidity of the banks recently caused it to fall to around 8.51 compared to
an inflation rate of about 7 percent. The money market also comprises a CD
market, which has been growing rapidly, and a framework for commercial paper,
of which little has been yet issued. These instruments offer yields close to
the basic money market rate and constrain the banks to offer competitive rates
on large deposits. Even small deposits get rates close to or above
inflation. Bank lending rates are also determined by the money market rate
because the banks' spread ove- it has a cap set by the Central Bank. This cap
was 3 points until it was rt ied in January 1989 to 2.5 points to encourage
private investment and greater efficiency of financial intermediation. Apart
from the preferential credits, it is the only significant control remaining
over interest rates and is motivated by the authorities' concern that
competition in the financial sector is still weak. But since it discourages
banks from lending to higher cost and riskier borrowers, a study is being
undertaken by the IMF under the SAL program to determine if the cap can be
removed.
Figure 4. Interests and Inlation Rates
14
12- j    A-     Inflation
10- | /       \                        o        P_     o         _ Commercial Banks
_ t                                                                 _ -_C ~ Lending Rates'
% _                         8. O - -O - --;5<-CNEL Lending Rates
CNEL Lending Rates
_ to developers
4 -
Commercial Banks
21                                                            *     Deposit Rate
Urban IlIl  Urban Transport II  Urban IV          _o  CNEL Deposit Rates
1981   1982   1983I   198    198S   1986   1987   1968
* average of short and medium term loans (source: Intemational Financial Statistics, November 1988)
Sources: C.N.E.L. 1987 Statistcs; and Intemational Financial Statistics. November 1988.
2.17     Regulatory Framework.  The cotncern over the insufficiently
competitive behavior of the banks reflects the authorities' awareness that the
reforms have been imposed on the banks, which were comfortable with the old
system. The habit of arranging business by common agreement, rather than
through competition, is changing only gradually. The zest for competition is
also held in check by the segmentation of the sector. Instead, the banks have
be^ome more cautious in their lending, partly because their loan evaluation
capabilities are often underdeveloped and partly they have inherited
significant non-performing assets from the past, but now without the assurance
of a back-up by the State. They rre highly liquid at present, but their
profitabiiity as a percentage of assets is high and they should be able to



- 10 -
provision adequately if they limit their dividends. They can also anticipate
borrowing by the State to cover the budget deficit.
2.18     The segmentation of the sector is partly due to regulations and
partly to specialization. Regulations distinguish between deposit banks, of
which there are ten, and investment banks, of which there are nine. The
latter are barred from taking deposits except in special cases and rely on
long-term resources, though the money market gives them access to short-term
money at slightly higher cost than deposits. They may not lend short-term,
and the deposit banks may not lend for more than seven years. Apart from
these there are eight off-shore banks, one of which is coming on-shore; a
postal checking system; various social security and pension funds (caisses);
insurances; portfolio management firms; and a leasing firm. The equity market
is still minute, among other things because acco.inting and auditing are weak
and because the tax treatment of other financial instruments is relatively
favorable.
The Housing Finance System
2.19     CNEL filled a niche within this system, though it did not provide a
number of services that were in demand. Its contractual savings scheme met
the needs of many middle- and lower-income earners wishing to buy a dwelling.
The investment banks did not provide housing finance and thte deposit banks
limited their financing to borrowers who could provide collateral other than
mortgages, whose value was limited given the problems of land registration and
the cumbersome judicial procedures. The caisses and the FOPROLOS together
constitute a major source of financing for housing, but are restricted to
target groups. But CNEL could not finance purchases of plots, upgrading or
acquisition of existing houses, or rental apartment buildings. It also did
not diversify its financial instruments because it felt it had a strong cash
flow and lacked a mandate for a larger role.
2.20     The new BH is a transformation of the CNEL into a full-service
housing bank. It will: (a) mobilize savings on a voluntary basis, where
deposits are made without the promise that mortgage loans will automatically
Fe granted in return; and (b) tap the financial market more aggressively by
issuing a variety of financial products and borrowing locally or abroad to
finance housing and land development.
E. Government's Housing Policies,
Bank Sector Experience and Rationale for Involvement
Evolution of Housing Policies
2.21     At the time of the preparation of the Bank's Fourth Urban Project in
Tunisia about six years ago, the priorities for Government policy were to
initiate programs to upgrade informal settlements, where housing quality is
good but services were lacking, and to take steps to reduce public subsidies
to the housing sector and decrease Government involvement in housing
construction in favor of its investment in infrastructure. These priorities
have been successfully addressed in the establishment of an upgrading agency
and of its program, and in a shift in public investment reflected in the Sixth
Plan period (1982-86). The Government has progressively moved forward with
reforms in 1987, borrowing rates on public housing loans were nearly doubled,



- 11 -
better to reflect the market rate. In July 1988 the Government adopted a new
housing policy whose main tenets are to:
(a) increase the supply of land for housing by increasing densities,
reserving sites, updating land registry procedures and mapping,
reorienting the public land and housing development agencies
towards low-income households, and facilitating subdivision and
housing construction by private developers and local Government
agencies;
(b) increase the supply of appropriate financing for land
development and housing by transforming the existing housing
savings institution into a full-fledged housing bank (BR) and
removing restrictions on active participation by the banking and
insurance sector; and
(c) reclaim leadership in the management of urban development by
defining an active policy to oversee and direct growth, setting
up a data base, revising outdated building and infrastructure
standards, and updating the urban planning law.
In March 1989, the Parliament passed a law allowing the creation of BE, which
was formally created by its shareholders meeting on April 28, 1989.
Previos Urban Prlets
2.22     Until now the Bank has granted four urban development loans to
Tunisia: Loan 937/Credit 432-TUN, US$18 million, 1973; Loan 1705-TUN, US$19
million, 1979; Loan 2223-TUN, US$25 million, 1983; and Loan 2736-TUN, US$30.2
million, 1986, respectively). The first project was a quite successful urban
planning and urban transport project including the rehabilitation of a
suburban railway line in Tunis and the setting up of the Tunis District; the
second project was directed to two municipalities, Tunis and Sfax; and the
last two projects initiated the institutional upgrading ef ARRU and AFP.
Urban IV became effective on April 11, 1987. At the request of the Tunitian
authorities an amendment was made to the loan agreement in November 1988,
allowing public and private developers to be eligible for construction/land
development subloans through CNEL as financial intermediary. The
implementation of these projects has permitted the Bank to better understand
the housing sector in Tunisia, and therefore identify the sey issues that
should be tackled at the national level as ongoing projects cannot but have a
limited impact on the whole sector (in particular its financing aspects).
2.23     Project work has been supported by extensive sector work, namely the
Housing Sector Review (1983), the Instituti.onal Housing Sector Review (1984)
and a financial model for the housing sector (1987). Last year a Municipal
Finance and Management Sector Study leadin& to the preparation of a First
Municipal Development Project (Sixth Urban Project) was completed. Finally, a
mini-housing sector review, prepared in May 1988, played an important role in
the design of the housing policy endorsed by the Government in July 1988
(para. 2.21).



- 12 -
Figure 5. Previous Urban Projects in Tunisia
0
h-enzel-B enurguuba
|Zaghhuane
;       <      O   ~~~~~~~~~ZriLal
El Fahs       0      25    50    75kms
5- PREVIOUS
d0rndt aPROJECTS
glK )Sikta ioin TUNISIA:
Ka WSlCairouan *Monastir
Cost in Millions of constant 1988 $ US:
70  40  20 10 5  0
Urban 1
| Jd  0uDdrr  /               Urban 2             -  -
B_ u Zi    Tfax               Urban 3
Urbanr
Gaofea O-9Transport T                                 I
,<Gt,SIra           Urban 4
Upgrading                S
Tozeuta / 9 °<~~~ r> S&S                                    0.... 
TO            O                                    8                     21
Tataoulne  <4!4L75
KLCMETER8



- 13 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.24     The housing sector plays an important role in Tunisia because of its
large share in gross capital formation, which is planned to remain at 20%
during the Seventh Plan 1987-91, its impact on employment generation, and its
value for many households as a means of saving in an uncertain economic
environment. As indicated in Figure 6, housing investments, like all other
investments, have decreased significantly. This project is a logical
evolution of the Bank's 15-year involvement in the urban sector in Tunisia.
Indeed, following continuous dialogue between Bank missions and the
Administration, the Government has progressively moved forward on reform in
the housing sector. The proposed project will address critical issues related
to housing development in general and housing finance in particular. It comes
at a propitious time, as the Government has decided to implement changes to
allow the private sector to play a greater role in the provision of low-cost
housing. Recent discussions with representatives of the private developers
lead us to believe that their response will be very positive to the proposed
law, and that they would be able to deliver some 2,50O to 3,000 low-cost units
per year.
Figure 6. Investments in Real Term, (Index I in 1980)
(Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance)
1.3                                                         DP
1.2
1.1
Housing Production
0.91
Gross Domestic
0.8                                                         Investments
1980  1981 1(82  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
(source: Ministry of Plan)



- 14 -
2.25     In the financial sector, recently liberalized with the help of a Bank
SAL, the project will help implement the Government's decision to transform
CNEL, up to now an operational arm of the Ministry of Finance, into a housing
bank authorized to engage in the full range of banking activities in
competitlon with other financial institutions as a step towards creation of a
universal banking system. Because of its specialization and its experience in
long-term credits, BH is expected to maintain a comparative advantage in this
sector. Concerning land management, through the urban and rural development
projects which it supports, the Bank has become more and more aware that the
execution of projects is often constrained or even blocked because of land
issues. To alleviate these problems, both the Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Project and the Municipal Development Project (FY90) have important
components counting on land information management improvements. Given the
complexity and sensitivity of land management, the Bank is in a unique
position to try to improve this sector.
m. BH: THE FW ANNCIAL INTERMEDIARY
3.01     The main justification for the Bank to assist the establishment of a
housing bank in Tunisia is the opportunity to develop the collection of
national savings by offering households new financial products adapted
simultaneously to their needs and to long-term institutional requirements.
The institution will have the responsibility of building up a housing finance
system which would rely on stable, increasing domestic resources, without any
significant budgetary transfer. BH will mobilize all available resources from
the financial market and will tentatively merge mortgage credit windows, but
it will focus essentially on the primary savings market, presently untapped by
the financial institutions.
3.02     To avoid monopolistic behavior, the commercial banks will be
encouraged to enter the housing finance market, either indirectly by
completing the BH's financial requirements through the money market, or
directly by competing with BH in intervening on the retail market of
sources/borrowers. The mandate of the institution is to finance all
activities throughout the sector: land and housing development, either public
or private, construction or mortgage loans for acquisition or
self-construction. Incorporated in 1989, BH has an equity capital of TD 30
million, shared between the Government (501) and several parastatals and
private enterprises (50X). The bulk of the Government equity participation is
represented by CNEL's net worth. Under the statutes creating BH, BH's
activities could cover the whole scope of banking activities. However, it has
been argued among BH, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank that BR
would benefit from waivers of severe regulatory const.aints and ratios
applicable to coumercial banks as long as it restricts its activities to those
of a specialized housing bank. As a private incorporated institution, BR is
free to set its own borrowing and lending rates within the new context of the
Tunisian financial environment. Interest rates on savings accounts will be
regularly updated, following money market rates. In determining interest
rates on loans, BH will progressively introduce variable-rate mortgage lending
to minimize its interest-rate risk.



- 15 -
The Steis for Establshment of BH
3.03     The steps for establishment of BB have followed a market approach.
The institution's profile and instruments have been defined only after a
thorough survey of the savings market on the resource side of the institution,
and the housing market on the lending side. For the first time in Tunisia, a
thorough study of 1,200 households behavior was conducted to determine the
savings and housing financing patterns within the urban population and to
estimate the amount of informal savings available in the country. The survey
led to the definition of specific financial instruments aimed at responding to
the culture and needs of the different categories of potential Tunisian savers
and borrowers. This being done, a plan to transform CNEL into BR was approved
and is under way. It focusses on three main steps: marketing strategy,
technical implementation of financial products, and organization and training.
ImPact on Orgmization
3.04     CNEL was a structurally simple organization designed to manage
elementary financial products on a quasi-monopolistic market. A move towards
commercial banking services will iLcrease the complexity of the marketing,
products, treasury, credit, and staff management functions that will require a
significant broadening and deepening of the management structure. The entry
in new markets will necessitate an increase in instruments and operating
expenses, especially in commercial and marketing activities.  The entire
managerial structure of the institution will have to be reshuffled to promote
the newly implemented customer-focussed strategy. The consequences of this
will be important needs in recruiting new staff and training existing staff.
CNEL's computer system is not adjusted to broadened business activity nor to
an increase in the data processing commensurate with new products and
expanding operations. A management information system has to be established
to provide the rapid feed-back needed to give top management the guidance to
focus its resources on critical areas of the institution and to adjust its
marketing policies. To assist BE in these very sensitive areas, the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France) and USAID are coordinating their
efforts in providing financing for technical assistance and managerial studies.
Financin Policy
3.05     As outlined in its Statement of General Policy, BR will finance all
sector operators, including the new profession of private land developer, to
be established by a new law on Real Estate Development; and all purchasers of
housing regardless of past "contractual savings" performance. BR will mainly
grant two types of loans: (a) construction loans/loans to developers; and (b)
mortgage loans.
3.06     All lending operations must conform with the Statement of General
Procedures of BE. Overall, developers' procedures have the same
characteristics as under CNEL except for an additional emphasis ou evidence of
marketability in the programs submitted for prefiuancing. Land development
prefinancing is limited to 70% of cost, with a maturity of three years when
land purchase and infrastructure works are prefinanced, and two years when
only civil works are involved.



- 16 -
3.07     BB will manage the "contractual savings" system.  Regular mortgage
loans may also be granted to contractual savings borrowers (under the
"complementary loans" label) to close their financing plans, and to
creditworthy house purchasers. The sum of the two loans cannot exceed 90S of
the investment (see para. 4.05 eligibility criteria).
3.08     BH will rely on borrowings and diversified savings instruments to
fund its loans, in contrast with CNEL which relied exclusively on "contractual
savings". It will thus be able to ra'se a much wider spectrum of resources,
either locally or abroad. The issues when seeking resources would be whether
the borrowing maturity is suitable to avoid maturity "mismatch", and whether
the borrowing cost can be blended into its onlending interest rate. The
following comparative table suimmarizes the improvement in terms of financial
intermediation aimed at by transforming CNEL into a BH.
Table 7. Comparison of CNEL with BH
Activities                           Former CNEL           New Housing Bank (BR)
1.  Resource mobilization:           Contractual savings   Any savings
2.  Development financing:           To public developers  To all developers
3.  Builders financing:              No                    Yes
4.  Land assembling and servicing:  No                     To public and private
land developers
5. Mortgage lending:
(a) lot purchase                No                     Yes, if twinned with
loan
(b) New houses                  Yes, if previous       Yes, witi preference to
contractual savings   savers
(c) Used homes                  No                     Yes, second priority after
new houses
(d) Home improvements           No                     Yes, second priority after
new houses
(e) Self-construction           Yes                    Yes
lSe Development of §aving Deposits
3.09     CNEL operated as a financial institution outside of the normal
regulatory environment. As part of its transformation, it will be required to
develop its own sources of savings deposits in competition with the commercial
banking system. This implies that BB will mobilize deposits as cost
effectively as the escablished commercial banking system, and that its deposit
products and services will be competitive enough to attract successfully
deposits away from traditional repositories through a superior reputation,
better financial instruments offered to the general public, and more
efficient, client-oriented services than the existing entrenched market
participants. Hence, to reduce its risks, BH will minimize: (a) direct
competition with the established banking system, (b) operating costs, and



- 17 -
(c) vulnerability to atfort-term disintermediation, by concentrating on
developing stable time and savings deposits, and will avoid demand deposits
and demand deposit services. In competing for time and savings deposits, it
will avoid competing on the basis of price or any contractual link to future
housing finance, but focus on convenience and establishment of a savings rate
and down payment that may help to justify a housing loan, providing all other
conditions are met.
3.10     On the lending side, the new institution would adopt modifications in
its products to increase their flexibility by:
(a) appealing to a more diverse range of target markets through
financing lower standard housing and self-contruction options;
(b) introducing financing for plot acquisition;
(c) providing loans for improvements and extensions of existing
dwellings; and
(d)  considering financing housing for develop rs and in general
encouraging a broader range of housing developers.
Conractual Housia Saving ScSheme
3.11     This system will be maintained at the request of the Tunisian
Government, but with very important limitations, in order to become revenue
neutral to BE. The customers of CNEL, having entered into a savings contract
with this institution in the past, retain their rights to a loan from BR.
However, the follotuing principles will apply:
(a) Ceilings on the loans to be made under this restrictive scheme
will not be adjusted for inflation; therefore, there is a
built-in mechanism for gradual disappearance of the system in
real term .
(b) The Government will bear the liability for the contractual
savings scheme, to protect the viability of BR; FOPROLOS funds
will be allocated to BH to compensate the financial imbalance of
the contractual scheme. Neither program will be an integral
part of BH's activity, each will oaly be managed by BR under
agreements signed with the Government.
(c) BR will offer a wide range of alternative "free" savings
instruments to its customers, to discourage them from joining
the "contractual" scheme.
Cap    Adequae_
3-12     The initial equity capital of BR is TD 30 million (US$32 million).
Such an amount should be considered as a minimum to be regularly increased to
match the financial requirements of the institution following the increase in
its business volume. Initial shareholders include the State and parastatals
like SNIT, AER, CNRPS, and CNSS as well as an insuranee company and a private
developer. The risks faced by BR are especially due to maturities mismatching
between assets and liabilities, reliance on FOPROLOS receivables and possible



- 18 -
uncertainty on sourcing of funding liabil'ties. BH will have to focus its
business planning and management effort on enduring the most efficient growth
in retained earnings. An increase in its capital equity should intervene in
1992 to satisfy a minimum acceptable debt/equity ratio of 1:1.
Interest Rate Policy
3.13     BB is anticipating development of a domestic savings deposit base in
direct competition with the broad well established providers of deposit
services and without a broad operating base to support the substantial
increase in transactions that should be anticipated if the effort is
successful. Its efforts to develop domestic demand deposits will increase
operating and advertising expenses that may not be adequately off set by
increased availability of low interest funds, thus potentially causing BR's
effective cost of funds to increase.
3.14     Due to its normal responsibilities as a housing bank, BB shows
forecast balance sheets with appropriate liquidity characteristics of an
institution whose obligations are predominantly long term. To reduce its
interest-rate risk, BB will have to diversify its resources and to raise funds
from the public at acceptable rates with maturities in excess of five years.
Vulnerability to a possible rapid disintermediation in terms of a financial
crisis will be avoided by BH's development of financiat products on its
lending and on its savings sides that will be indexed to market interest rates.
Financial Forecast
3.15     Three main scenarios concerning BB future behavior have been
considered: an optimistic scenario assuming a dynamic, commercially agressive
behavior; a middle-of-the road scenario, the reference scenario; and a
pessimistic scenario assuming a conservative bureaucratic behavior from BB.
These scenarios were combined with the following five main strategic
parameters: (a) rates of interest; (b) loan maturities; (c) down payment
ratios; (d) loans origination according to type of lending; and (e) loans
origination according to type of borrowers (CNELISTES, FOPROLCTISTES, and
regular customers). As shown in Table 8 and Annex 5, the results of the
reference scenario indicate satisfactory results concerning: debt/equity ratio
(below 15:1 from 1989 to 1993), operating expenses (c<l all along the period),
spread (between 2.9 and 4.3X), net return on assets, which increase steadily
from 1989-1993, and significant increases in retained earnings in 1992 and
1993. This reassuring picture is, however, tempered by the risk that BE may
not be able to raise new savings deposits at an increasing pace evezy year.
This policy presumes a commercial approach to the market through the supply of
adequate financial products. Should this situation not be maintained, BE will
need a ready access to a well functioning financial market. Both situations
seem feasible but will need close monitoring. This will also imply a change
in the interest-rate policy and should lead to a more flexible interest rate
policy.



- 19 -
Table 8. BH Fi_naial Pertmance        o
(Source: Mission computations)
1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993
LIQUIDITY RATIO
Curret.t Ratio               2.78      3.66     4.20     1.97     0.72      0.51
LEVERAGE RATIOS
Debt/Equity Ratio           18.26    10.03      9.78    11.19    iv.88    19.37
Debt/Loans Ratio             0.68      0.61     0.58     0.57     0.48      0.40
ACTIVIT RATIOS
Operating Expenses as 2 of
Average Total Assets      22        12       1%       12       12        12
Foreign Currency Debt as
2 of LT Debt              52       11      232      322      33%       331
IBRD Debt as X of LT Debt   01       32       121      22%      231       232
PROFITABLITY RATIOS
Income from loans as % of
Averaie Loan Portfolio     7.442   10.88%   11.391   11.29%   11.631   12.181
Spread                       3.10     4.54      4.62     4.86     4.00      3.39
Net Return on Assets         3.81      4.88     5.22     5.42     6.90      8.09
Fit Profit Margin            3.63      6.00     6.17     5.87     4.74      4.09
Profit before Taxes as
1 of Average Equity      73%       631      501      56%      561       611
Tv. THE PROJECT
A. Obietives
4.01    While centered on the transformation of BE into a housing bank, the
project's scope is sectorwide. It supports several related objectiveFt that
maybe simmarized as: privatization of land development and housing
construction, "creditization" of a larger share of the housing delivery
system, deregulation of housing construction, land development processes, and
improvement of the land information wanagement system. It supports the
rnorientation of *:e Government's housing policy towards gradual State
diseagagement which st.rted with the rationalization of housing construction
and housing loan subsidies. It involves extensive price control
liberalization, promotion of private developers, and making public enterprises
self-supporting and competitive with their private counterparts.



- 20 -
Specifically, the objectives are to:
(for housing)
(a) transform CNEL/BH into a dynamic housing bank, improving the
degree and range of financial intermediation in the sector and
integrating several windows of the fragmented housing finance
system;
(b) mobilize domestic private sav4ngs and promote a imore
market-based housing finance system. The new system would
feature savings and lending products that are more adapted to
market preferences;
(c)  streamline the regulatory environment of land and construction
development, by removing current regulatory biases against
private operators, thus increasing the private sector's
participation in land development and housing construction.
(for land information management)
(a) provide the land registration sector with adequate institutions
and procedures, by modernizing CPF (Land Registry), and by
strengthening OTC (Office of Topography and Cartography) so that
it responds more effectively to users' needs;
(b) provide new and updated base maps, intended for urban planning
purposes.
B. D
4.02     To support the necessary institutional and policy changes, the
project would finance the following three components:
(a)  housing finance:  the core of the project, which includes the
transformation of former CNEL into a housing bank, BH, with the
necessary accompanying measures, such as training and technical
assistance, as well as a line of credit of US$51.0 million. the
line of credit would be available for land development and
housing construction, acquisition, extension, and rehabilitation;
(b) institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Housing to help
implement and monitor Government's new housing policy adopted in
June 1988; including in particuliar a new regulatory framework
facilitating the development of the private sector in land and
construction development, and restructuring of its parastatals
SNIT (housing company) and AFH (land developer); and the
(c) land information mawgement including: modernization of land
registration and production of base topographical maps.



- 21 -
Table 9. Proiect Elements Description
II.B.RD.. - 1 TUNISIAN GOVERNMENMT         Institutlonal Strengthening and
Lend intormation Management Component
Housing Finance  Component    a
Mortgages (LT.)       =5Savings                         _-T
cnmtion Loans (S.T.)
Private               Private
l   A¢F H    ~Laisi    S.N.i I        oHaing
=l  Developers  Oeveiopers
Punommi Purchase    Purch1     Prchase4 I            of      =C. 
E I HOUSEHOLD (SAVERS AND B_RR
C. Line of C'edit to CNEL/BH
4.03     BH's projected lending program over the next three years calls for
cumulated commitments of about US$450 million; about 45% would be for
construction loans to developers (housing and site infrastructure), 10% for
construction loans to individuals and 45% for mortgage loans to households
purchasing housing units.
4.04     Use of the Line of Credit.  Part of the Bank loan proceeds (US$51.0
million) will be used to refinance:
(a) Construction loans to private and public developers to build
low-cost housing developments. Such developments would cover
the provision of site infrastructure and a mix of housing unit
types, ranging from "suburban" (one- to two-room single family
rowhouses, extendable horizontally into a private yard,
vertically by building a second floor on the terrace roof,
completion of which is left to the owner initiative) to
"economic" (two- to four-room single family rowhouses, in one-
to three-storey units, or two- to four-room units in walk-up
apartment buildings). Upon completiii ecf the developments



- 22 -
(usually three years), construction loans would be repaid and BH
would mrke mortgage loans partially financed out of the
construction loan repayments available to potential buyers of
the newly construct-ion housing units. This conversion of funds
is a key incentive to developers to produce low-cost housing
units since it would ease their marketing, particularly in the
low-income population, which has had only marginal access to
formal housing finance.
(b)  Individual housing construction loans.  These loans would be
extended to individuals who desire to build their houses through
self-help or small contractors. Such credit would automatically
become mortgage loans on completion of the construction.
(c) Individual housing rehabilitation or extension loans.
(d)  Land development loans.  Construction loans would include
financing for land development; it is expected that under the
proposed project, BH would finance only a few land development
projects carried out by public or private developers.
(e) Mortgages for the purchase of new housing units.
Figure 10. Income Distribution and Affordability
s0                       Price coiling of units with B.H. loans flnancnd at 40 % by L.B.R.D.
70       Price ceiling of units with B.H. oans financed at 60 % by I.B.R.D.
100           20Ec4nmomique
30Mini          $iSbrsn   =    Suburbain  r-,Eoomlque  (1986 T)
_ (0-7000 OT)-  (9.12000 D)~    Amelloro  l-  (1 9A26000 DT) 
(13-18000 DT)
(assumption: downpayrnent  20 to 30 % of valiue of musing unit)



- 23 -
Total housing programs to be committed in 1990 and 1991 amount to TD 175
million (US$187 million) of which Bank financing amounts to US$51 million.
ElgiiltyCriteria
4.05     Part of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to BB who would
use them for the financing of selected subprojects which meet the following
criteria:
(a)  Fo-7 individual constructions and mortgaLes:  Price Criteria:
financing the construction or purchase of single family units
whose total estimated cost does not exceed TD 30,000 (US$32,000)
per unit.
(b) For units built by developers: (i) Price Criteria: financing
the development of single-family units, rowhouses, and apartment
units whose selling price does not exceed TD 30,000 (US$32,000)
per unit, and development of lots priced at not more than
TD 7,000 (US$7,500) per lot (or resulting land area per unit
(charge fonci6re) priced at not more than TD 7,000). (ii)
Surface Criteria. This applies only to the development of
residential areas; the density of land use should be over
45 units per hectare, and individual lots should not exceed
200m2. Circulation area should be less than 401 of total
area. (iii) Economic Criteria. All subprojects should be
located in urban areas (i.e., in cities where a substantial
demand exists as shown by marketing studies carried out by the
developers and surveyed by BD as part of its appraisal
procedures) and in sites that are properly serviced by physical
and social infrastructure. In addition, all subprojects should
have an economic rate of return equal to at least 121 (the
estimated opportunity cost of capital). (iv) Financial
Criteria. All subprojects should have a financial rate of
return equal to the interest rate applicable to the mortgage
loan of BD for that subproject.
BD would present subprojects with investment cost above TD 500,000 to
the Bank for prior approval on an application form satisfactory to the Bank
(see example in Annex 8), including a description and appraisal of the
subproject with a financial, economic, and feasibility study. BH shall also
furnish a description of Lhe expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan.
Terms and Lending Conditions
4.06     Terms and lending conditions are proposee as follows:
(a) Loan maturity for construction (housing or site development) by
developers will be up to three years. The loan would not exceed
702 of the total construction cost (90X, if selling price is
less than TD 12,000)1', and would be repaid with the lot or
housing proceeds. The minimum interest rate would be equal to
a EaS
.L       Values as of end 1988.



- 24 -
total weighted average cost of funds plus a two-point spread at
the time of subloan approval.
(b) Loan maturity for construction by individuals would have a
two-year grace period on the principal plus interest, to avoid
burdening the borrower-tenants, and will follow the conditions
of mortgage loans.
(c) Mortgage loan maturities would vary from ten years to improve an
existing dwelling, to 20 years to acquire or construct new
housing.  The mortgage loan would not exceed 70% of the selling
price (90% if the selling price is less than TD 12,000)L'.
The average interest rate would be equal to the average cost of
resources, plus at least a two-point spread at the time of
subloan approval. BR will apply cross-subsidies among its
borrowers, as long as the average spread is two points. It is
anticipated that BR will study the possibility of introducing
variable interest rates to their mortgage loan portfolio.
4.07     Most of the loans will be mortgage loans not linked to previous
"contractual savings". However, to expand its resources through domestic
savings mobilization, BR will require its borrowers to have previously opened
an account with the bank. Various types of accounts will be offered, and
adapted to the different categories of households and savings patterns.
Unlike the contractual savings scheme, these savings instruments will follow a
"free" savings approach. "New" loans may finance the purchase or extension of
a house and may be used to complement loans to the "contractual savings" loans
to help the borrower satisfy his needs.
Bank            Ratios
4.08     Bank refinancing of selected BR subloans wouldI be the following
percentages of BR loan amounts, 60% of amounts disbursed by BR for units not
exceeding DT 20,000 or for plots not exceeding 3,500, 40% for units not
exceeding DT 30,000 or plots not exceeding DT 7,000, and 70% for
rehabilitation or extension of units.
Bank Review and Apiwoval
4.09     Only subprojects exceeding TD 500,000 (US$540,000) would be subject
to prior review and approved by the Bank to ascert&in that the subproject
appraisal report contained all analysis, recommendations, feasibility, and
affordability information required by the Bank. It is expected that an
average of 15 subprojects would be reviewed annually. BH would maintain
appropriate records of all other loans so that they can be reviewed on a
sample basis by Bank supervision missions. The subproject appraisal report
format was discussed during the Bank appraisal mission.
4.10     Subprojects would be refinanced on a first-come, first-served basis
without any earmarking for developers' loaas or individual mortgages. on the
basis of projections recorded in the three-year program, it is expected that
45% of the refinancing would go to d3velopers and 55% to individuals.
-I.'     Values as of end 1988.



- 25 -
D.   t       A   stance to CNELIBH. AFH. SNIT and MEH
4.11     Given the necessary in-depth institutional changes, formalized in the
contrat-progranmmes, BR, AFR, SNIT, and MER are in need of institutional
assistance. Former CNEL staff are experienced in appraising social housing
subprojects, but have little experience in collecting savings on a commercial
basis, or in appraising infrastructure and land development subprojects. AFH
and SNIT technical staff are experienced, but few are proficient in
programming and marketing, two skills required to ensure that production is
carried out at least-cost and is marketable. MER needs to revise the
regulatory framework for urban planning, land, and housing development.
4.12     The institutional assistance components of the project would include
short- and medium-term assistance. USAID and the French cooperation have
provided grant funds to help define revised organizational structures,
training programs, and management information systems. More specificatly the
following elements are included:
(a) Assistance to CNEL/BH. A team of consultants, financed by the
French bilateral aid. started working at CNEL in June 1988 to
define a new organizational chart adapted to the new BR's
responsibilities. Simultaneously, under a grant from USAID, a
team of Tunisian consultants launched the market study to
provide CNEL with socio-economic data necessary for defining
savings and loans products adapted to national customers.
However, the restructuring of CNEL into BR, according to general
principles discussed among the institution, the Bank and the
bilateral aid agencies, needs further assistance, which should
be provided during the first year. The four main fields to be
covered concerned (i) the commercial strategy to define its
products and penetrate the primary savings market; (ii) the
technical procedures to carry out its banking operations; (iii)
the implementation of a management information system; and (iv)
staff training. As assistance program is presently being built
to address these issues. Assurances were obtained that an
action plan will be prepared by BR by December 31, 1989 to spell
out this assistance program. Its funding is likely to be
provided by the same bilateral aid agencies; otherwise BR is
prepared to finance the program under its own administrative
expenses.
(b) SNIT and AFH. In order for AFR and SNIT to become more
effective and competitive in terms of reducing delivery delays
and product targeting, funds are included for finalization and
implementation of contrat-programme elements such as training
programs (in-house and abroad), and definition of new procedures
in the new structure. These contrat-programmes have been
reviewed at negotiations and comments given to the
Administration.
(c) MER. To assist MER in managing the new housing strategy and in
streamlining the regulatory framework, in particular by
implementing the new law governing land and housing development,
and which approval by the Parliament is expected by December 31,



- 26 -
1990. The following studies, technical assistance and related
equipment are included:
-    adaptation of urban planning regulatory system as well as
technical standards;
-    intersectoral coordination procedures for urban development;
-    rental housing (both public and private); and
-    training program for MER staff.
4.13     In the cases of AFH and MER, priority would be given to utilizing the
institutional assistance component allocated under the Third and Fourth Urban
Development Projects (US$1.3 million). To foster the b ildup of efficient
continuing education in the sector, preference wotld be given to training
programs organized locally. Assurances were obtained that an annual review
meeting will be held to monitor institutional changes and the progress
achieved in carrying out contrat-programmes, and to make any necessary
adjustments.
E. The Land Infornation bbnagement Compoent
4.14     This component includes two interdependent elements (land
registration and mapping) that could be implemented relatively independently,
but are all required to attain the objective of providing good up-to-date
information about land characteristics and ownership in Tunisia. As explained
below, the first of these elements aims at a longer-term objective and will be
the most difficult to implement in view of institutional constraints.
4.15     Long-Term Objective:  Institutional Restructuration.  The three
feasibility studies carried out for the preparation of this component have
clearly presented the disfunctional nature of the land registration system in
Tunisia. There is a growing discrepancy between the de facto situation and
the de Sure situation, as represented in the land book. The intractability of
the problems this system has created for the State, the municipalities, the
parastatal and private companies, as well as private citizens, are so severe
that they call into question the utility of pursuing further land registration
as currently designed and practiced. It is necessary to restructure the
system to make it work efficiently and serve the needs of its users, given
that: (a) land is a major input to all economic activity, especially
agricultural and urban land development, and these require titles for land
transfers, and granting of collateral; (b) proper identification of plot
ownera facilitates land transactions, opens the market and contributes to
modernization of the economy; and (c) individuals need security of tenure and
the opportunity to use land as 10_ -ollateral.
4.16     The restructuring of the system will require extensive institutional
reform. Indeed, it is now clear that coordination of the three agencies
concerned (CPF, OTC and TI) has been so far impossible, for lack of a managing
authority. The Bank has proposed that a high-ranking civil servant (at the
vice minister level, for example) be officially charged with land matters.
The preparation of an action plan including measures to improve land
registration processed within CPF and OTC is a condition of disbursement for
the land registration component.



- 27 -
4.17     Related institutional and procedural changes needed in the future
include the following:
(a) Restructuring of the agencies concerned, in particular creation
of an institution composed of CPF and the section of OTC, now
responsible for the topographical aspects of land registration.
This institution would have the sole responsibility, under
Government supervision, for programming and contracting for
cadastral work, as well as deferring litiginous cases to the
Land Tribunal, TI.
(b) The existing judicial procedure should be replaced by a mixed
procedure in which a judge would continue in principle to
supervise, but his direct intervention would be limited to
settling disputes (as is currently the case for the optional
registration procedure).
4.18     As a first step in that direction the following measures would be
part of the project:
(a) Land registration
(i)    Modernization of CPF to assure constant updating of the
titles and prevent "freezing" of new titles issued. This
would include computerization and microfilming of the
files, as well as continued decentralization with the help
of computers. A special program would be launched to
"unfreeze" frozen titles.
(ii)    Modernization, computerization, and decentralization of
topographical and printing services currently in OTC.
These efforts will improve productivity and bring services
closer to users. OTC is preparing a contrat-programme
concerning its reorganization and work program for the
coming years.
(b) Mapping
The production of base maps (mainly at scale of 1:25.000) will
be extremely useful for urban planners who are seriously
hampered in their work, particularly at the preliminary design
stage, by the age of existing maps.
4.19     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a review meeting
between the Government and Bank representatives will be held once a year to
review progress of the proposed changes and make necessary adjustments.
F. Proiect Cost and Financing
4.20     Total project cost is about US$200 million (TD 187 million), of which
942 is taken up by the housing finance component as shown in the table below.
A detailed cost table is given in Annex 2.



- 28 -
Table 11. Summanry of Project Costs
(January 1989, Cost Estimates)
PROJECTS      LOCAL I FOREIGN I TOTAL   LOCAL I FOREIGN I TOTAL  FOREIGN AS
COMPONE                 DT mililon             U$ S mrdllion   % OF TOTAL
A. HOUSING
Housing Programs    113.1    61.7  174.    121.0    66.0  167.0         35%
B. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING'
Sub-Total         1.5      3.2    4.7     1.5      3.4    4.9       70%
C.LAND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT *
Land Registration      1.9     5.0    6.9      2.0     5.4    7.4        72%
Mapping                0.3     0.3    0.6      0.4     0.3    0.7        46%
Sub-Total         2.2      5.3    7.5     2.4     5.7    8.1        70%
TOTAL         116.8    70.2  187.0   124.9    75.1  200.0         38%
including price and physical contengencdes
US/DT (04/13/88):     1.07
4.21     For the housing element the costs cover land zcquisition, land
development, and housing construction. Foreign exchange is estimated at 387,
of total project cost TD 70 million (US$75 million), and local cost at 62%, TD
117 million (US$125 million) which includes TD 15 million (US$16 million) of
taxes. The base costs are expressed in January 1989 prices. As standard for
a line of credit, no price or physical contingencies have been included for
the housing line of credit. For the other two elements physical contingencies
have been estimated at an average of 10% of base cost. Estimated price
increases over the project period amount to about 162 of base cost plus
physical contingencies. Price increases for foreign cost are estimated at
11.1% for 1989, and about 6X from 1990 to 1993, and for the local cost at
about 62 from 1989 to 1993.



- 29 -
Table 12. Project Financing Plan
(in 1,000 of TD)
PROJECT            TOTAL        LOCAL FINANCING        FOREIGN EXCHANGE FINANCING
COMPONENTS          COSrs         Other         Housing  I.B.R.D.I
GOVI;RN- Public  i.H.    Loans   URBAN VI USAD  3iIateral
-MENT Agendes    HLenefuciargies PROJECT      Aid
A. HOUSING
Housing Programs    174.8                  62.6     50.5    47.7    14.0
S. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
B 1: MEH Strengthnng  2.2   0.3                              1.1           0.8
B 2: Assistance & Equip. iH    2.1          1.0                            1.1
B 3: Contrat Pro. SNIT-AFH    0.4   0.2                      0.1           0.2
Sub-Total             4.6   0.3    0.2    1.0                1.2           2.0-
C. LAND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT"
C 1: Land Registratlon  6.0   0.4    1.5                     5.0
C 2: Mavpno           0 .    0.3                             0.3
Sub-Total             7.5   0.7   1.5                        5.3
TOTAL PROJECT (DT)  166. S   1.01   1. 673. 61         5 0. 5    54.21   14.01  2.0
S US I DT (04113/88)  1.07
TOTAL PROJECT ($US)  r9      .      .      8.       40     5.      15.   2.1  
* under discussion with bilateraw aid; If not materialized, from Govemrment
Including prfee and physcal contngencdes
Finncigg Plan
4.22     The total project cost would be financed with the proposed Bank loan
of US$58 million (29%); an estimated $54 million (27%) of savings from the
beneficiaries; US$68 (34%) million from the housing bank BH, US$1 million from
the Government (1%); US$2 million (1%) from other Government agencies; and
US$17 million from bilateral aid (81), of which US$15 million is already
secured, in the form of a loan from USAID to the Government onlent to BR. The
other US$2 million are under discussion with French and Italian aid. In the
case it would not materialize the Government would finance out of its own
funds.
4.23     The proposed loan would be made at the standard variable interest
rate with repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace. It would
cover 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the institutional support and land
information management components, as well as 100% of foreign exchange for the
housing programs to be financed by BR during project implementation.
4.24     The proposed line of credit would assist BR over two years to
refinance a share of its construction land development and mortgage loans for
low-cost housing. Together with the projected disbursements under the Third
and Fourth Urban Development Projects (about US$16 million is expected to be
disbursed during 1989-1991), Bank funds would represent approximately 8% of
BR's total resources in 1990 and 1991). This contribution would ensure



- 30 -
adequate levels of financing for low-cost housing, which has been neglected in
the past by both private developers and public agencies. Bank financing would
exclude land. The loan would be made to Government which would onlend part of
it (US$51 million) to BH on Bank's terms plus minimal carrying charges. This
will be agreed in a subsidiary loan agreement whose signature will be a
condition of effectiveness. Subloan repayments not required to remove BH's
subsidiary loan would be recycled into similar subprojects. The rest of the
loan would be used for the financing of the technical assistance and land
information management components.
G. Procurement. Disbursement and Spewial Account
Procurement
4.25     Housing (942 of total project cost:  US$187 million).  The line of
credit to BH would refinance civil works for land development and acquisition
of housing units constructed under the project as well as housing
improvements. No contract is expected to be suitable for international
competitive bidding. Public developers would be subjected to Government
procurement practices for public works. Private developers tend to execute
construction works either by themselves or through a variety of small
contractors.
4.26     Institutional strengthening (2% of the total project cost:  US$4.9
million). The technical assistance components include the implementation of
several studies and associated surveys. Contracts for which Bank financing is
requested would be awarded according to Bank guidelines to qualified local and
foreign consulting firms.
4.27     Land information management (4% of total project cost:  US$8.1
million). Topographical, cartographic, and computer material and equipment
would be procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank guidelines.
However, a wide variety of small items of specialized equipment wit.
individual amounts not exceeding US$150,000 up to an aggregate maximEm amount
of US$1.5 million in total may be procured through shopping on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bid invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under Bank Procurement Guidelines. Technical
assistance, studies, and cartographic surveys would be awarded according to
the Bank Guidelines to qualified local and foreign consulting firms.
4.28     Review Procedures.  The large number of small material and equipment
contracts in the project, their similarity, and the capability of the borrower
agencies to procure efficiently would make prior review of most of these
contracts unnecessary. Only contracts exceeding US$150,000 would be forwarded
to the Bank for review before award. All other contracts would be sent to the
Bank after their award. All consultant contracts would be sent to the Bank
for review before award.
Disbursement
Project duration is expected to be about six years.
4.29     Housing.  The proposed line of credit of US$51 million would be
committed over a period of two years (1990-1991). However, to provide some



- 31 -
leeway, the final date for submission of subprojects to the Bank to be
financed under the line of credit is set at December 31, 1992. The loan would
be fully disbursed in six years with the closing date set at June 30, 1995.
4.30     Institutional Strengthening.  Disbursement of funds for training
programs, studies, technical assistance and material and equipment will cover
100l of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures.
4.31     Land Management.  Purchases of supplies and equipment as well as
studies and training are expected to take place at the beginning of the
project and to be fully disbursed over a five-year period. Disbursement would
cover 100% of foreign expenditures and 802 of local expenditures for studies,
training and consultants services, and for material and equipment.
Table 13. Disbursement Amnements
Amount
Category                     (US$ million)          Disbursement Percentage
1.  Housing Line of Credit   a)   33.0            601 of BH subloan for housing
units not exceeding DT 20,000
and plots not exceeding DT 3,500
b)   17.0           40% of BH subloan for housiag
units not exceeding DT 30,000
and plots not exceeding DT 7,000
c)    1.0           70% of BH subloan for rehabi-
litation extension of housing
units
2.  Training and                    1.0           1001 of foreign expenditures
Consultants Services                        and 80% of local expenditures
3.  Material and equipment   a)    0.5            1001 of foreign expenditures
for locally procured items
and 80S of local expendituires
b)    3.0           1001 of foreign expenditures
and 802 of local expenditures
for locally procured material
and equipment for CPF and OTC
4. Unallocated                      2.5
TOTAL          58.0
4.32     Disbursements for the above items would be made upon receipt by the
Bank of fully documented applications, except for expenditures under the line
of credit, training and under contracts valued at less than US$150,000
equivalent which would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained until one year
after receipt of the audit report for the year in which final withdrawals are
made by the respective implementing agency and made available for review by
Bank supervision missions and external auditors. The format for SOEs was
discussed during negotiations.



- 32 -
Speci Account
4.33     A Special Account would be set up at the Central Bank (BCT), to
reduce possible delays due to lengthy circuits and procedures. The authorited
allocation for the account would be set at US$5 million. The Special Accouat
would be replenished upon receipt of withdrawal applications supported by
documents as outlined in para. 4.32. Monthly statements of the Special
Account would accompany replenishment requests.
H. Audits, Monitoring and Supervsion
Audits and Accounting Procedures
4.34     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would have
the Project accounts, and BH, as the subborrower, would have its accounts for
every fiscal year audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank.
Separate audit reports covering the Special Account and the statement of
expenditures will be prepared. These reports will be sent to the Bank within
six months after the end of their fiscal year, currently December 31.
Monitoring
4.35     Progress on project execution will be communicated to the Bank by
means of quarterly reports. BH will submit a separate report concerning the
line of credit. The Government will also prepare a project completion report
within six months of the loan closing date.
4.36     The project will require close supervision to achieve its in-depth
institutional restructuring objective, improved management quality, and to
ensure timely execution of the training component. Supervision efforts would
be concentrated in the first twelve months of loan effectiveness with nine
staffweeks estimated for the remainder of FY89, 30 staffweeks in FY90, 20
staffweeks in FY91, 15 staffweeks in FY92, 10 staffweeks in FY93.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  Ho
Justification and Benefits
5.01     The principal justification of the project is to endow the housing
sector, which accounts for one-fifth of the annual investments made in
Tunisia, with an autonomous and healthy financial institution able to meet the
sector's financing requirements with little or no reliance on assistance from
the State budget or the Central Bank. The project would thus assist the
Government in fostering the "creditization" of the housing sector, with a view
to eventually reducing the share of informal investments. The latter



- 33 -
objective, which is a key to a more effective housing policy, will be achieved
only in the medium- to long-term, and would be expected to be supported by
further Bank projects.
5.02    The main physical benefits of the project would be: (a) the
development of about 250 ha of urban land allowing the construction of about
12,200 dwellings (assuming a density of 50 per ha); (b) the corresponding
public utilities (sewerage, water, electricity, roads); and (c) the granting
of about TD 150 million (US$160 million) in individual mortgage loans for
construction or acquisition.
5.03     The financial benefits would be (a) the greater availability of
credit financing for the acquisition of urban lots and housing; (b) 'he
increase in mortgage financing loan-to-value from the current 452 to up to 70%
of the dwelling price; (c) the practice of (i) paying a cost, whether interest
or dividend, for any resource channeled to the sector, especially for
quasi-tax resources such as the 2S payroll levy that is funding FOPROLOS, and
(ii) passing this cost on to the final borrowers; and (d) tidying of the
public agencies' balance sheets through the consolidation into equity of
unpaid debt to the State with recapitalization as necessary.
5.04     The institutional benefits, besides those obtained during project
preparation, would be: (a) the transformation of a traditional and limited
savings and loan fund into a full-fledged housing bank and the strengthening
of BB staff through systematic training; and (b) the emergence of a new corps
of professional private developers who can gradually take over most present
responsibilities of SNIT and AFH.
5.05     The economic benefits of the project would be various, and in line
with the objectives of the Government, which include: (a) the generation of
about 12,000 jobs per year directly, and of 2,500 additional jobs per year, in
the construction-related activities; (b) the encouragement of institutional
savings by replacing the contractual savings scheme with a more commercial
approach and by competing for investor savings; and (c) the provision of 1,500
housing units benefitting households with an annual income below the urban
poverty threshold of TD 1,200 (US$1,400)"'.  Of the 12,200 dwellings to be
delivered or to be provided at various stages of construction, it is estimated
that about 2,530 to 3,000 will be affordable to households with monthly
incomes of TD 165, which is 1.5 times the minimum wage. Over 602 of the
estimated 12,200 households benefitting from the project would be in the lower
half of the income distribution.
Raks
5.06     The mein project risks are those inherent in any institutional
restructuring. First, the project involves a new institution, BB, whose
future effectiveness is uncertain despite all the built-in safeguards and
whose institution-building efforts may be delayed, prolonged, or redirected
due to exogenous constraints. Second, by consolidating the currently
fragmented housing finance system, there is a risk of monopoly behavior by
BR. It is not expected that the risk of monopoly behavior by BR will
lo       1985 data.



- 34 -
materialize due to the present revamping of the Tunisian financial market.
Third, the effects of the in-depth changes in strategies, procedures, and
staff skill mix to be introduced in the three public agencies may take longer
than planned due to the extent of the retraining needed. To minimize these
risks, a statement of general policy, a document of procedures, an
organization chart and a program contract have been developed by BH and a
comprehensive technical assistance has been included in the Project.
B. Land Information Management
5.07     Project benefits will come from (a) improved security of tenure
(legal aspect of cadaster) and (b) improved knowledge of spatial development
(topographical plans). The expansion of systematic and accurate mapping of
urban areas will allow priority investment programs to be planned and executed
more rapidly, city planning to be more effective, and tax rolls and property
registration to be brought up to date. Among the main benefits are the
following: (i) speeding up of land transactions to achieve more efficient land
use; (ii) expanding the use of credit based on land as collateral to finance
investments; and (iii) facilitating land consolidation and land
redistribution, which are essential conditions for improving the productivity
of land. The main risk is related to the ability of the institutions'
management and staff to effect the organizational changes. Other risks are
possible delays in the expected increase of private sector involvement, and
reluctance of persons with of vested interests in the administration to
streamline procedures.
C. Evironmental Impeet
5.08     The construction of residential buildings and housing units financed
under the project is expected to be carried out according to appropriate urban
planning, architectural, and engineering standards. Consequently, it is not
expected to have a negative environmental impact. In addition, increased
lending for low-cost housing associated with measures to increase the supply
of serviced residential land would help integrate part of the presently
unauthorized housing production sector into the formal sector. This, in turn,
would help control urban sprawl, as well as unsafe housing development (i.e.,
lack of sanitary facilities and basic infrastructure). The increase in
availability of maps will facilitate the ability of the national and local
authorities to analyze, plan and implement projects, inter alia environmental
studies. The project would, therefore, have a positive environmental impact.
VL AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During loan negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) project objectives and description would be as stated in
paras. 4.01 and 4.02;
(b) project accounts would be audited and monitored as outlined in
paras. 4.34 and 4.35;



- 35 -
(c) the proceeds of the loan would be used to finance subprojects
and project elements, as described in paras. 4.04, 4.12, 4.13,
4.18, as procured in paras. 4.25 to 4.28, and as disbursed in
paras. 4.29 to 4.31.
(d) the Government would establish a Special Account in the amount
of US$5 million at the Central Bank of Tunisia, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.33);
Housing Finance
(e)  BB's maximum debt/eqiity ratio, minimum debt-service coverage
ratio, and minimum annual return on lending (spread) would be
15:1, 1.1:1 and 2 points respectively (Annex 6);
(f) BB's financial accounts would be audited annually by an
independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.34);
(g) the Government would onlend US$51 million to BE on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.24);
(h) an action plan would be prepared and provided by BR by
December 31, 1989 (para. 4.12);
Institutional Strengthening
ii) a rev ew meeting between MEH and Bank representatives would be
held once a year to assess progress made in streamlining the
regulatory system controlling private and public developers'
operations and in the implementation of SNIT and AFE
contrat-programmes (para. 4.13);
Land Information Management
(j) a review meeting between Ministry of Plan and Bank
representatives would be held once a year to assess progress
made in the implementation of the action plan concerning
institutional changes and make necessary adjustments (para.
4.19).
6.02     As a condition for loan effectiveness, the subsidiary loan agreement
concerning the onlending of Bank funds would be signed between the Government
and BE (para. 4.24).
6.03     As a condition for loan disbursement, an action plan for the proposed
institutional changes involving the modernization of land registration
satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared (para. 4.19).
6.04     Subject to the Government's assurances on the above, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$58 million, for a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the standard variable Bank interest
rate. The Borrower will be the Government of Tunisia.



- 36 -
Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
jEstimated Disbursejt Cumulative Dlsbursement
I.B.R.D. Fiscal Year  US $ Millions Percentage US $ Millions Percentage
1990 First Semester          0.0      0%          0.0       0%
Send Semester          2.3      4 %         2.3      4 %
1991 First Semester          3.5      6%          5.8     10%
Secord Semester        4.1      7%          9.9     17%
1992 First Semester          7.0     12%         16.8     29%
Second Semester        7.5     13%         24.4     42%
1993 First Semester          7.0     12%         31.3      54%
SecordSemester         6.4     11%         37.7     65%
1994 First Semester          5.8     10%         43.5      75%
SecordSemester         4.6      8%         48.1      83%
1995 First Semester          4.1      7%         52.2      90%
Second Semester        4.1      7%         56.3     97%
1996 First Semester          1.7      3%         58.0    100%
U60-                                                             58.26
50 -                                               48.14
40                                       37.7
M                                     31.32
30-
24.36
20 --16.82
0  10.            5.8
n    0  ~~2.32
90 1  i   911  1   92 1  i   93 1  1   94 1  1   95 1 s        98s1
semesters



- 37 -
Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
PROJECT CO ST TABLE
FORE19N EXCHANGE    LOCAL
PROJECT COMPONENTS            TOTAL   L I.R.D.            Other * FINANCING  (of which
___Urba_ ___   Urban V    USAiD  Bilateral         Taxes
.. HOUSINO
Housina Proaras                      174.800  47.700114.000   -           1t3.100   (14.000
P. INSTITUTIONAL STRENOTHENING
e1:
a- Urban Planning Laws                    372      235               60          57       (57)
b- Study on Rental Housing Market          58                        56
c- Uwban Development Management
If Restfucturtlon & Programing          245       195                          5        (50)
Ill Infomatlion Planning Svstem         250                       250
lW Land Use Plan                         188      150                          30       (38)
ivl Study for Information System        500       400                         100      (100)
d Assistance & Equipment                  555       140             380          3        (35)
Sub-Total                              2,16      1,120             76E         280       (280)
E& 2:
Asssanoe 8 Equlpnment BH.              1,958                     1,00E         950       (300)
B 3:
C(ontrat Programme SNiT-AFH              53 3       52             201         260        (80)
Sub-Total                         4.,69 5  ,jt7t- 1.977                 1.5101    (860
C. LAND INFORMATION MANAGEMENI
C 1: Land Registration
Cadastre                         2,900    2.500                           400     (300)
Land ConseratIon                 3,955    2.505                         1450      (300)
C 2: Mapping
Maps at scale 125000               400       200                         200       (30)
Maps at scale2;000                200        100                         10        (20)
Sub-Total C                       7 455    5,30      -                  2.15       (650W
TOTAL COSTS ('000 TD)               186,914  54,177 14,0001 1,977   116.760   (15,310)
US $ I DT (04113W8)                     1,07
rTOTAL COSTS   S S   lillons          200.0        8.01   15.01 2.111    124.91         1.4
* under discussion with bilateral aid; iR not mate_,ad. from GovernmenL



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
CNEL. Past Experienee
Financial Instnuments: The Contractual Housing Saving Scheme
1.01     CNEL's initial and single assignment was to manage the
housing-savings scheme created by the Government in 1974. Savings
participants have entered into a contract by which they agreed to a savings
target commensurate with their income in exchange for a right to a housing
loan at the end of a pre-established savings period. There are 10 contract
types (see Table 1) with loans amount varying from TD 4,000 to TD 19,000.
Subscribers choose the period of savings, either 4 or 5 years, which carried
loan maturities of 13 - 20 years respectively. Up to the end of 1986,
maturities were 10 or 15 years but were extended to soften the burden of
higher interest rates.
1.02     At the completion of the contract the accumulated savings used by the
borrower on the downpayment, represent one third of the investment. Deposits
yielded 6.751 p.a. during the contractual savings period, 8.75% annually
thereafter. Foreign currency deposits by Tunisians working abroad were
yielding 7.50% and 10.501 respectively.
Table 1. CNEL: Savins and Loans Contract Categories (TD)
CUEL: Savings and Loans Contract Categories (TO)
savInst: 4 vears/Loan Maturity: 1I Years    SavInas: 5 Yearstagln Maturity: 20 Years
Possible    inimum      Hinimum  Approx. Monthly Hinimfu   Minimui Approx,. Monthly
mousing   Monthly Savings Monthly  Loan  Loan  Monthly Savings Monthly  Loan  Loan
Contact 1/ Invustment 2/ Iosm.  Tarsat  Sawisg  Amout Panfnt  Incm   Tar lts Sa 5a3nns Amont £aimoL
C         4000      84   1344      28  2666    28    60   1200        20  2666    23
0         6000      108   1728     36  4000    42    90   1800        30  4000    34
E         8000      143   2280     48  5333    56   120   2400        40  5333    45
F        10000      180   2880     60  6666    70   ISO   3000        50  6666    57
Fl       11000      210   3360      70  7333    77   165   3300       SS  7333    62
F2       12000      225   3600      75  8000    84   180   3600       60  8000    68
e        13000      243   3688     81  8666    91   195   3900        65  866       74
H        15000      285   4160     95  10000    110   228   4560      76  l10oo    90
I        17000      330   6280    110  11333    120   264   5280      88  11333    100
J        19000      360   5760    120  12666    13S   288   5760      96  12666    110
I/ Since the creation of MN only contracts C. 0. E can be opened.
T/ this account could be increased with sources of financing other than the CUEL savings and loan.
1.03     While the original target was to open 8,000 contracts p.a., the
prospect of a housing loan at the end of a 4 to 5-year waiting period was
overwhelmingly attractive. Savings mobilization was greater than expected and
gave CNEL a quasi-monopoloy position in "officiai" housing finance in the
early 1980s. Having thus a large pool of resources, CNEL felt compelled to



- 39 -                           Page 2 of 6
satisfy requests from savers who had not completed their savings contracts,
though somewhat in contradiction with its declared policy. At the end of
1987, gross contracts numbered 319,916 for a total gross savings amount of TD
428.5 million; similar data, net of contracts satisfied with loans and of
cancellations, were 186,294 and TD 314.0 million.
Table 2. CNEL: Number of Net Subscriptions and Net Savings per Annum
Number of
Contracts (Volumeh I
MliHons DT)
30000 (60)
20000 (40)
10000(20)
0 (0) 19        W1     1301 194  1985 . . ..  'E18
Number of concts      Savins Deposs In curren. D.T._ n deflated 1087 D.T.A
(SOURCE: C.N.E.L. STATISTICS 7488)
Lending
1.04     Standard loans.  The lending rate charged by CNEL is 8.252 p.a.,
which is positive in real terms. Loans are guaranteed by first mortgage
titles held by CNEL, but automatic payroll deduction is the preferred way to
ensure debt servicing. A creditworthy co-borrower or loan insurance is also
required for borrowers aged over 40 (with 5-year savings/1S-year loan maturity
contracts). This is a conservative requirement given that the life expectancy
at birth is currently 61 years in Tunisia, and that loan maturity does not
exceed 15 years at present. The interest charged on arrears is 12.6%. In
addition to the mortgage title, borrowers are required to have life insurance
equal to the loan amount and fire insurance for the house.
1.05     Loan amounts are subject to the lowest of four ceilings:  (i) twice
the accumulated savings and interest, or (ii) TD 12,666, or (iii) the loan
plus accumulated savings plus interest not greater than TD 19,000, or (iv) the
debt service not higher than one-third of the borrower's income.



- 40-                            Page 3 of 6
1.06     Advance loans.  While all subscribers have a right to a normal loan,
CNEL was also allowed to grant an "advance" loan to those who wish to borrow
during the last two years of their savings period. The penalties for this
early borrowing are that the subscriber pays an increased annual interest rate
of 11.5X, but no principal, until the end of the contractual savings period.
At that time, the advance loan is repaid while the accumulated savings and the
normal loan are freed under the regular terms. Compared to the normal loan,
the advance loan had certain financial advantages that prompted more and more
participants to take advantage of it.
1.07     By the end of 1987, CNEL had granted 44,637 mortgages for a total of
TD 323.6 million, that is, an average loan amount of TD 7,200. About 57% of
these loans (68% of total lending) were the advance type, 36% were normal
(29X) of total lending), and 71 were outstanding immediate loans (3% of total
lending).
Table 3. CNEL: Loans Committed per Annum
Number
of Loans (Volume in
Millions DT)
6000 (60)
4000 (40) 
2o00 0(20)
0 (0)1977   197',  1979  1980  1981  1982  198  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Number of Loans:       Volume of   in current DT          in deflated 1987 DT  MM
Commitments:
(SOURCE: C.N.E.L. STATISTICS 7447)
1.08     Loans to developers.  CNEL also prefinanced housing construction by
private and public developers. The credit amount was up to 701 of the
construction costs for the "economical" dwelling type and up to 901 for
moderate cost dwellings. The maturity of prefinancing was up to 3 years and
the interest rate was nominally 10% p.a., but actually amounted to 11.31
because interest was collected in advance every three months. Because CNEL
prefinancing was granted exclusively for financing housing sold to its savers,
SNIT has been the main beneficiary over the years. At the end of 1987,
cumulative prefinancing loans amounted to TD 302.2 million, of which 941 went
to SNIT and the balance to about a dozen active private developers.
FOPROLOS
1.09     CNEL has been responsible since 1978 for managing FOPROLOS (Fonds
Social pour la Promotion du Logement des Salaries), a workers' housing fund
established in 1977 and funded by a 21 levy on all payrolls. Its purpose is
to grant housing loans to wage-earners with salaries between 1 and 1.5 times
the legal minimum wage. Because of the comparatively attractive interest rate
(51), many CNEL savers in the low categories have been granted FOPROLOS loans



- 41-                           Page 4 of 6
in recent years. At the end of 1987, outstanding mortgage loans amounted to
TD 67.6 million. In addition, to promote the construction of low-cost housing
FOPROLOS funds were allocated to the prefinancing of middle-income housing,
mainly to SNIT. At the end of 1987, such outstanding prefinancing loans
amounted to TD 64.3 million. To manage these funds on behalf of the Treasury,
CNEL charged one-time fees of 12 on loan disbursements and 22 on recoveries.
However, the main benefit derived by CNEL was much larger because FOPROLOS
surpluses were used to finance CNEL's financing gaps, as well as the float
allowed because debt collection was transferred back to the Treasury only once
a year. Under an agreement to be signed between BDH and the Government,
FOPROLOS funds will 3 longer be managed for free, but borrowed at a cost to
be agreed with the Flinistry of Finance.
Table 4. Total Annual Credits diswibuted bY CNEL
(in constant 1987 TD millions)
160
1 2 0.             ~                                d Total Credits
CNEL Credit to
Developpers
BU. /  /Foprolos Credit
*to Deeopr
rixn Fropolos
40L  Mortgages
U  . ,Mortgages
0
1977    1979    1961    1963   1965   1987 1988
Past Pedamuaee
1.10     Savings targets.  Although significative in volume, the amount of
savings collected by CNEL place the institutions performance below the
estimated requirements for the decade. The most disturbing factor is
represented by the trends that Lave appeared in the past four fiscal years and
which show a drop in the growth of gross savings and the increasing number and
amount of savings contract cancellations due mainly to lack of affordable
houses on the market and the ceiling on the loan amount.
Table 5. CNEL: Number of &viunCon trCn ts
200_
Accumulated Savings
150                                                         E    (millions of current TD)
100
Number of Contracts
(in I 000)
7  1978                                           " 18 1    1   1   1   1   1966 16  1988
197-7 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1884 198S 1986 1987 1 988



- 42 -                          Page 5 of 6
1.11     Bottlenecks within the housing sector have resulted in waiting lines
of savers who have complied with their saving contract and are waiting for
available housing on the market. Dissatisfied savers have led to an
increasing number of contract cancellation and a slower growth of savings.
Table 6. Savings Deposits Mobilization
(in current TD millions)
1000M
7500
2500-
0
1977   1979    1981   1983    1985   1987
1.12     Loans activity.  The first savings contract was made in 1978.  At the
end of 1982, while almost 39,000 contracts had matured, less than 21,000 loans
had been authorized, leaving around 18,000 possible qualified borrowers.
Lending to developers peaked in 1984 with TD 50.1 million of disbursements and
decreased thereafter to an estimated TD 33.4 million in 1987 mainly because
SNIT started to postpone new programs in 1985 to implement an in-depth
restructuring. Due to the time lag between prefinancing and mortgage lending,
the latter has continued to rise on the strength of earlier prefinancing from
TD18.8 million disbursed in 1982 to an estimated 59.5 million in 1988. In
1987, it jumped to an estimated TD 76.4 million because of the large backlog
of housing put on the market by SNIT.
CNEL's Finncial Problems
1.13     The profitability of CNEL has apparently been good during its 15
years of existence. CNEL showed a loss (TD 1.1 million) for the first time in
1986 (Annex 5). It has returned to profitability in 1987 (1.9 million)
despite the immediate impact of the steep increase in savings deposit
remuneration not offset by the slow effect of the higher rate on loans. In
1988, the anticipated profit is estimated at around TD 3.5 miilion. Due to
its reliance on one main resource savings, CNEL has been traditionally
underleveraged which was more a loss for the sector than for the institution.
The other financial indicators confirm the relatively conservative policy
followed by CNEL.



- 43 -                        Page 6 of 6
1.14     During its first years of activity, CNEL succeeded in attracting a
sizable number of savings depositors. As deposits increased, CNEL tended to
grant more and more advance loans, a practice which was inconsistent with its
contractual savings policy, but the higher interest rate charged during the
first two years, the shortage of affordable dwellings for CNEL savers, and the
lack of competing sources of long-term financing were strong factors which
contribute to this situation. The resulting "'de facto" strategy became common
knowledge; those who could get a loan were not simply those who were eligible
under the regular terms, but, in fact, those who found a dwelling. Savers
were eventually discouraged and the net mobilization of savings peaked,
progressively putting pressure on CNEL to find alternative sources of
financing. Such an issue is structurally linked with the contractual housing
scheme offered by the institution. These conditions have not been met by CNEL
during its existence. The resource collected by the contractual scheme should
have been considered only as a means to raise the downpiyment of the
savers/borrowers, and not as the only resource to secure the financial needs
of the system, hence the necessity to offer other financial investments to the
domestic financial market. This approach was however not followed by CNEL,
which relied instead on a "cash" approach of the structural issues they were
facing.  The FOPROLOS surpluses have been used by CNEL as free resource cash
instead of being reimbursed to the Government.  The cumulative financing gap
at the end of 1988 has reached about TD 38 million, covered by a systematic
recourse to FOPROLOS surpluses.  The mobilization of the "CNEL ratio" (up to
5% of commercial banks' deposit base) has been correspondingly decreased
although it was a resource reserved to CNEL.  The substitution of resources
has accustomed the Tunisian financial system not to lend medium-term to CNEL
at a time when the reverse reflex was necessary. To this, the accelerating
savings withdrawals gave to the current financial situation the
characteristics of a major financial crisis. The financial restructuring of
CNEL had become an issue. Establishing BDH by essentially absorbing CNEL's
assets and liabilities is a convenient solution that ensures continuity.
Table 7. Performance Indicators (1984-1986)
(in percentage)
1984     1985     1986
Operations
Gross income/Average assets (1)                   6.6      6.4       6.0
Overheads/Average assets                          1.4      1.5       1.2
Financial expenses/Average assets (2)             2.8      2.7       4.9
Interest income/Average loan portfolio (3)        6.3      6.2       6.1
Interest on LI debt/Average LI debt (4)           5.8      5.3       6.2
Spread: (3) - (4)                                 0.5      0.9      -0.1
Margin: (1) - (2)                                 3.8      3.7       1.1
Profitability
Net income/Average equity                         4.1      5.1      -1.9
Net income/Average assets                         0.5      0.5      -0.1
Financial Structure
Debt/Equity                                       1.2      0.9       1.7
Debt service                                     43.8     66.2      44.0
Arrears/Loan portfolio                            2.9       3.4      3.2



- 44 -
Annex -4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
CNEL Income Statement and Balance Sheet (1983-19861
CNEL Balance Sheet (1984-1986)
(in TO '000)
ASSgTS
Current AAsets
Cash                                       85.9          73.7        83.8
Sight and term deposits                 17194.3      12318.0      18947.6
Current maturities of loans             47417.3      38755.2      70540.4
- prefinancing loans                    13989.0      17509.2      21196.4
- mortgage loans                        33428.3      21246.0      49344.0
Arrears on loans                         3125.4       4313.2       5088.2
Accounts receivable                      7745.5       8973.4      11820.0
Other short term assets                   854.9        897.1        697.1
Total current assets                  76423.3      65330,6    107177.1
Loan Portfolio
Prefinancing loans                     1013.,6.9    107449.1    101791.6
Mortgage loans                         108113.5     128158.7    158950.0
- advanced (anticip6s)                  18595.5      22071.6      32147.0
- contractual savings loans             89518.0     106087.1    126803.0
- complementary loans                       0.0           0.0         0.0
Total loans outstanding              2094S0.4     23560Z.a    260741.6
Less:  Current maturities               47417.3      38755.2      70540.4
Net portfolio                        1i2033.1     1968S2.6    190201.2
Fixed assets (net)                       4228.2       5460.3       6327.7
Losses in the FY                            0.0          0.0       1067.7
Loans on managed funds                   6029.2       5981.8      21826.2
Total assets                         248713.8     273625.3    326600,0
Total assets in US$ millions            421.0        403.1        420.4
LIABILI'TIES
Current liabilities
Short term borrowings                    6013.9       4331.1      31461.1
Current maturities of LI debts           1083.7        585.0       1602.4
Other account payables                  25712.0      22286.6      34039.6
Total current liabiliti.s             328096       27ZZ02.7     67103.0
Contractual savings                    153516.2     177883.5    188931.5
Non-contractual savings                  3000.0       6000.0       9000.0
Total savings                        IS6516.2     183883.5    197931S.
Lona-term debts
World Bank                                 54.0         54.0       1403.8
USAIO                                    8329.8       8266.6       8179.4
CNEL Ratio                               3150.5       2082.6      17074.1
FOPROLOS                                34258.2      35404.2          0.0
other local resources                    1S99.0       1760.2          0.0
Total long-term debts                 13133,3      12163.4      266S7.3
Less current maturities                1083.7        585.0       1602.4
Net long-term debts                   12049.6      11578.4      25054.9
Provisions for portfolio risks           1270.0        1270.0         0.0
Equt
Capital                                   420.0        420.0        420.0
Mandatory reserves                       5290.3       7223.2       8493.2
Other reserves                           3488.3        3147.0      3340.0
Retained earnings                        2034.8       3043.1       3600.4
Total equity                          11233.5      13833.3    .lafi3.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         2Z0713i      273625.3    326600.0



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
CNEL Income Statement and Balance Sheet (1983-1986)
CNEL Income Statements (1984 - 1986)
(in TD '000)
1984      1985       1986
Income
Interest on prefinancing loans              6586.3    7986.4    8003.1
Interest on mortgage loans                  4793.7    5716.3    7193.3
Total interest on loans                    11379.9   13702.7   15196.4
Interest on deposits                        1308.2     504.6      484.6
Fees on loans                                263.2      263.7     121.0
Commissions on managed funds                 453.4      384.0     400.0
Interest subsidy                             872.2    1144.8    1280.9
Other incomes                                496.4      765.7     486.7
Gross income                             14773.2   16765.5   17969.6
Expenses
Interest on contractual savings             5308.3    6027.2   12909.7
Interest on other savings                      0.0       0.0        0.0
Interest on "orrowings                      1063.2    1024.7    1767.5
Total financial expenses                    6371.2    7051.9   14677.2
Personnel expenses                          2343.7    £607.4    2671.7
Administrative expenses                      801.4    1303.1      965.6
Provisions for depreciation                  234.4     266.9      622.9
Provisions for portfolio risks               666.0       0.0        0.0
Other expenses                               158.2     102.1      100.0
Total expenses                           10575.4   11331.4   19037.4
Net income before tax                     4197.8    5434.2   -LO67.7
Income tax                                2163.0    2391.0        0.0
Net income after tax                      2034.8    3043.1   -1067.7
Cash flows                                2935.3    3310.0    -444.8



- 46 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
RH PROJECTED FINANCIAL TABLES tia88-i093i
(in DY '000)
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__-------------------------
1988      1989       1990      1991       1992       1993
Interest on Loans                    19,505    22.160    26.970    32.089    43.459    53,208
Other Income                           3,640     2.837      2.786     k.480      2.255      6.284
____________________________________________________________________
TOTAL INCOME                           23.144    24,996    29.756    34.569    45,713    59,492
EXPENSES
Personnel Expenses                    3.4SS      3,801      4.181     4.599      5.059      5.565
Other Operating Expenses               1.652     1.817      1,998     2,198      2,418      2,660
Cost of Short-Term Borrowings           766          0        460         0          0          0
Cost of Long-Term Borrowing
and savings deposits                13,542    13,991    16.562    20,720    26,384    35.287
Depreciation                            573        S04        514       525        535        546
Provision for Losses                    343        357        201       285        368       446
20.331    20,470    23.917    28.327    34,763    44.S04
Profit before taxes                   2.814      4,526      5,839     6,242    10.950    14.988
Income Taxes                            945    1521        1,962     2,097      3,679     S,036
NET PROFIT                              1.868      3,00S      3.877     4.145      7.271      9,952
ALLOCATION OF NET PROFIT
Total Reserves                            563        601        77S       829      1,454      1,990
TOTAL                                   1,306      2.404      3.102     3,316      5.817     7.962



- 47 -
Annex S
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC 0F TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
BR PROJECTED FINANCIAL TABLES E19B8-1993s
(in OT '000)
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
--------------------------------------------------------------------___-------__----------------------
1988       1989       1990       1991      192        1993
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Available Cash (incl.dep./res.)         5,000      9,749     (9,208)    26,350     14,284      18.069
Total Loan Collection                  49,841     63.702     67,384     80.157     93.484    109,956
Loans to Developers                  15,954     18.800     22.082     26,104     30.467     36,484
Mortgage Loans                       33.887     44.024     44.336     52.991     61,848     72.186
Other Collections                     2,144        378        966      1.063      1,169      1.286
Share Capital Increase                            10,000     19.500          0          0          0
BORROWINGS
Long-Term Bonds                             0     20.000          0          0          0          0
IBRO (Proposed & Future Loans)              0      4,435      6.475     11.176     12,862     11,886
Other Foreign Currency Loans                0      6,728      6.728          0          0          0
Local Borrowings                            0          0          0          0          0          0
NEW SAVINGS DEPOSITS (NET)               51,086     58,748     67.561     77.695     89.349    102,751
EXCESS FOPROLOS FUNDS                    50,975     24,463     44,044     26.012     24.838     26.993
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                  156.902    197.d25    202,483    221,390    234,817    269,65S
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
LOAN DISBURSEMENT
Loans to Developers                    24,090     28.117     32,817     40,151     46.862     54,695
Mortgage Loans                         51.351     66,713     67.185     80,301     93,723    109,390
REPAYMENT OF LONG-TERN BORROWINGS
Local Borrowings                        1,773        983        885        796        717        645
IORU Loans                                  0          0          0          0          0        370
Other Foreign Currency Loans              190        207        396        495        473        616
Withdrawals from Savings Accounts
for Downpayments                     60,437     54.465     44.156     34.722     40,537     38.984
Foprolos Fund                           4,500     50,97S     24,463     44.044     26,012     24,838
OTHERS
Income Taxes                              945     1521       1.962      2,097      3,679      5.036
New Fixed Assets                          638        630        643        656        669        682
Other Repayments                        3.228      3,422      3.627      3.845      4,075      4,320
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS              147,153    207,033    176.133    207.107    216,747    239,575
RESOURCE GAP 1-) OR SURPLUS (4)           9,749     (9,208)    26,3S0     14,284     18.069     30.080



- 48 -
AnneLx 
Page 3 of 4
RgPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
BH PROJECTED FINANCIAL TABLES (19088-193)
(in OT '000)
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
1988       1989       1990        1991       1992        1993
ASSETS
Cash & Banks                             9.345     28,365      27,858     2L,801    22,547      62.836
Current Maturities
(Less Provisions)                     62.467     66,217     78.810      91.948    108,224      90,224
Arrears                                 12,879     13,771      15.780     18,628     22.304      26,763
Other Accounts Receivable                1.017      1,078       1.143      1.212      1.284       1.361
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                85.708    109.431    123.591    136,588    154,359    181,185
Loans to Developers                     44.548     53,865     64.600      78,647     95.041    113.252
Mortgage Loans                         152.911    175.600    198.450    225,760    257.635    294.838
TOTAL PORTFOLIO                          197.459    229.465    263.049    304.406    352.676    408.090
Fixed Assets                               6,606      6.732       6.861      6.992      7.125       7.262
TOTAL ASSETS                             289.773    345.628    393.501    447.986    514.161    596,537
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                           9,378     19,149      10.537     11,169     11.839      12,550
Current Maturities                        55.6SS     45,436      36.013     41.727     40,615      42.390
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                 65.033     64,385     46,550      52,896     52,454      54.939
Treasury & Other Domestic Borrowings       9,830      8,847       7.962      7,166      6.450       5.805
Long-Term Bonds                                0     20,000      20.000     20.000     20.000      20.000
Savings                                  195,853    210.446    243.285    280.442    330,807    395,771
Total Domestic Borrowings                205.683    239,293    271,247    307,608    357,256    421,576
IBRD Borrowings                                0      4.435      10.910     22.086     34.948      46,464
Other Foreign Currency Borrowings  0       6,521     12.852      12,357     11,884     11.268
TOTAL LONG-TERM DEBTS                    205.683    250.249    295.009    342,052    404.088    479.308
Share Capital                                500     10,500      30.000     30.000     30.000      30,000
Capital Surplus (Reserves)                16,688     17.289      18.064     18,893     20,348      22,338
Retained Earnings                          1.868      3.005       3.877      4,145      7,271       9.952
TOTAL EQUITY                              19.056     30,794      51,941     53.038     57.618      62.290
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        289,773    345.628    393.501    447.986    514,161    596.537



- 49 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIC OF tJNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
BH PROJECTEO FINANCIAL TABLES I19BSa-1s31
(in OT '000)
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
________________________________________________________________________________________________________
1988      1989       1990       1991      1992       1993
LIQUIDITY RATIOS
Current Ratio                          1          1.69       2.66      2.58       3          3
Quick Ratio                            1          1.48       2.32      2.23       3          3
LEVERAGE RATIOS
Debt/Equity Ratio                     11          8.12       5.68      6.45       7          8
Debt/Loans Ratio                       1          1.09       1.12      1.12       1          1
Oebt Service Coverage Ratio            1          1.27       1.29      1.26       1          1
ACTIVITY RATIOS
Operating Expenses as
X of Average Total Assets            1X        2%         2%        2%         1%         1%
Foreign Currency Debt as
% of LT Oebt                         X         4X         8%        10%       11        12%
IBRO Oebt as % of LT Oebt              X         2%         4%        61         8%         9X
PROFITABILITY RATIOS
Income from Loans as 1
of Average Loan Portfolio           10.X       10.38%    10.95%     11.31X    13.1        14.X
Cost of LT Debt as X
of Average LT Oebt                   7.X        6.14X      6.07%     6.50%      7.X        8.X
(A) Gross Income as X of
Average Total Assets                   8.1        7.87%      8.05%     8.22%    IC.%        II.%
(B) Financial Expenses as X of
Average Total Assets                   S.%        4.52%      4.66%     4.99X      6.X        6.X
Spread = (A-B)                         3.1        3.35X      3.39X     3.22%      4.X        4.X
Return on Equity                      1S.1       18.161    14.111    11.89%    20.X         25.X
Net Return on Assets                   8.1        7.87%      8.05%     8.22%    10.        ll.%
Net Profit Margin                      4.1        4.99X      5.09%     4.78%      6.1        6.1
Profit Before Taxes as
X of Average Equity                 45.1       42.72%    30.30%    25.84X    34.%         40.1



- 50-                            Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
RE-PUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
FINANCIAL PEXORMANCE RATIOS FOR B.H.
bIerestSpread greater than 21
Interest Spread = Return on Lending Operations - Cost of Funds
Retunn on Lending Operations: Interest Income
(loan interest + interest on arrears + commission fees on credit) /
average total assets
Costof Funds: Interest paid (financial expenses + amortization of
security issue expenses) I
average total assets
Operating  o        (a) less than 1.32 of total assets (b)
(a) Operating Expenses + provision for depreciation
(less amortization of security issue expenses)
(b) Total Assets + discounted assets
EuitylDebt katio greater than 1/15
Equity/Debt Ratio = (capital+mandatory reserves+other reserves+retained
earnings)/(long and medium term debt+deposits)
Liquidity Ratir greater than 10 of the Savings
This ratio should include:
- liquid funds (cash and Banks)
- treasury bonds
- rediscountable securities
This ratio should be applied until the BR has complied with the ratio fixed by
monetary authorities.
Expose Ratio less than 20%
The outstanding loan portfolio perta4ning to a single borrower cannot exceed
201 of the equity of BE including Reserves considered as quasi-equity, unless
the excess is entirely covered by the Tunisian Government or any other
financial institution acceptable to the World Bank.



51                             Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TUNSIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
CNEIIBH: TECHICAL ASSISTANCE
Housing Bank
Contactor.   Consulting Firm, or Consultant(s) in banking organization and
the training of banking experts
1.       Reorganization Assistance
1.1      Establishment of new procedures, remodeling of existing procedures,
updating of accounting methods, definitions of responsibilities,
occupations and assignments, and writing of procedures manual.
1.2      Development of the Management Information System (N.I.S.)
updating/creation of software applications for the new
responsibilities; definition of a global directing scheme, and
eventually a reference book for computerization strategy, creation
and updating spreadsheets and databases.
2.       Commercial Strateay Assistance
2.1      Assistance in the detailed design of new products (financial products
targeting households savings and borrowers for acquisition or
developers); analysis of market competition; policies for targeting
customers, locating agencies, and designing the reception areas, etc.
2.2      Assistance in defining the commercial strategy of the BE in the
short and long term; general policies concerning coumunication and
advertising (media, budgets, campaigns).
2.3      Creation of procedures and/or internal bank services for the
assistance to customers: housing developers, land developers,
individuals for acquisition and self-constructi3n.
3.       Training Assistance
3.1      Setting up a training plan for all staff categories, according to the
new responsibilities and the new procedures, in the face of a new
competitive environment.
3.2      Designing a policy for recruitment, management and salaries.



- 52 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
REPUBUC OF TUNSIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
CNELIBH: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Relations with the other Components of the Project
BB's institutional capacity is fundamental to the success of the
project. This means that the transformation of CNEL into a full-fledged
financial institution should be achieved before the end of 1989. It is
recommended that contracts for assistance be signed with the consultants as
soon as possible.
Aoonmpllshment Schedule
1.       Assistance for the Reorganization
-. expert in organization,
permanent in BH                 at least 9 months
1 computer expert,
permanent in BR                 at least 9 months
Total =            18 Men x Months
2.       Assistance for Commercial Strategy
(for punctual missions to the Marketing Director of BE)
1 expert in Banking
Marketing                       short missions
1 expert in Banking             short missions
Total=             2 to 3 MxM
3.       Assistance for Training
(for punctual missions to the Director of Human Resources at BH)
Training expert                  (p.m.)
Staff Management expert          (suAte)
Total              3 MxM
COSTS (el,Y 1989)
Permanent Consultants          Quantity
I expert in reorganization      9 MXM
1 expert in computers           9 MxM



- 53 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
REPUBUC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
CNELIBH : TECBNICAL ASSTANCE
Punctual Consulting
Quantity
1 expert in Banking Marketing         3 MxM
1 expert in Banking                   3 MxM
1 expert in Staff Management          3 MxM
Total =          27 Men x Months (minuimnm)
Consulting Fees                    315,000 DT
Diverse Costs/Transportation       100,000 DT
Proviuions (20X)                    85,000 DT
Total =                  500,000 DT
FINAINCING
Financing has been requested for half of the costs from the French
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and for the second half from the
RHUL0-USAID offices. The answer is still uncertain. If no foreign
funding is available, the BR must finance those costs from its own
overhead expenses budget.



- 54-                                                   Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TUNBIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
BH SUBPROJECT APPRAISAL MODEL FORM
3   |    oo  8 j8,  S  ; _3 t k c;i  5! T                       R   iIZ
I 
I- 
Z~~um - ,it | Ij0lf*   DB  #^    _
i    ]   !  ^   sz&i * Is     j
MIN0
i      . . . . . . . . .  .  .-        .. .. . .. _.,___.    ..__ .,.              ..
w                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
Isa
I  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*                ^.I                                         V.t  o   aE z  3 X    -* 1''  ,'
.I ...............                          .........   ..........
*       a ,        a               .        .            ..          .             ... , ..,,,b,
*       a   a      a                                                     i      s vz 
2~   ~~I jip   S!FEF;>e                     1                    *.i ,       ra   ;3 
j  X I   i   _                      ' 'i~~~~~~I 13   ,                I    
1.n.*nn. _*     ____..........................   _*_....... ,_......        ........... .
*I X-   '                                  .  i. *                   ±      '.    -  '
I   :^    11 £ I ssZ ,'        X   , 9t               ,         1, I 
;      Ui t    |~"                                                             --.~X i          O                      -, 
io         2 !,jj                                     &                   -       4 s 
~~hiL~ ~ I1A IT 'T                                                 I         a '          o        
!L i:j                                         a   ^ 12                     l1i          e 
!   Ii!   -l.aer@                 'iI  O 3 !                    s  
3*. u    a   a                             *  aae_s*  ___e_* **-_*  



- 55                                       Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
SCHEMEATIC DESCRIPTION OF HOUSING SECTOR IN TUNIIA
CONSTRUCTION                                               FINANCING
IntebaInal 
(1nuiItutlcns    -olds I
Ueban Pla   Tenure Law   Norms      Norms      Culture     mport        InstItutional  Etrandividuai
Standards   L.I.S.      Engineering   Panems   Tedoly l LiensesPubi    Savgs
Lra Uw     cadastre    Studies      Standards  Managi.    T r anpr
Land owne
M.E4    CFJOTC   \(                      GovTs; h       ?\g               X     (etilr R414Cmmrca
Gtovt.y    VARPP       Local Govt.   In1stmpe
PEFMiT    LAND         UrflLITIS    CM           LABOR  ||BUtON    |         |    NF      
Land Devt   Private     Water       FACLiTIES              M MATERIALS       |evcmmntLoans
i3uUding   Pubibc       Sewrage     Sciob                                       Enterprise and
Residency   Agencies    Electricity   Hospitls                                Cvr||tons udnLoans|
and Suate    Gdati       ...                 Ml|                  |"larqe Loams
(sh Ernterp)
Iat
(Developers:1       Centra   ~     ~    DevAoto
(medium-term)
Mengages
EXCTS: hyut Ll-term)Y
EODICT8: 1 _t*f Woods at  M6



biZERTE|
t S 4 je n       o     n e (~~~~~~~Ra Djobel
37e                                                                                                            TUNIS \Au.,i                                           37
BE A                                   Menzel ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ezel Tegmime
Es eu Ze
|                           j~~~~~J E Nt 2Oo                                     b  rBA
eSlkiet Sidi    AO,/-o                                                                 zv   
KASSRINSTIR
Y fA)ous                                                          Buil ser                         Es      o
a~~~~~~~~a
35                                  j *                               , .       )     /       __               <><_               D5e,beniono                         35G 
34    aTOZEURn                                                  /)HezlC                                             4 
rs~~~~~~~~~E Som                                                                             n  =
Th la                                           CMA MENIN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                                                          I
t   TOZEUR JAJ                          \                              8   iIIAethTotuione                                            (
K~ A   B  S  IN                                    h               ADiem                       Cbb
35*                                                                                D I BOUZID                                               mm
69    National  Capital                                 KILOMETERS                                                        11e e C
O    Gove r nora te Ca p i talIDs This map has been prepared by                                                            .
PavedRoads  The World Bank's staff ex Alusively   o
,es"  G~~~~~~~~~radr an seclsvt  or theRmd                                                                       u 
3   Ports                                       and the tnteraonat finance                                                  y
Airports                                         used and theboundariesshAwn    E                       D
n                          Salt LakeS                                  parterat The WarldBankratond the  ILGERIA    J                                        LIBYA         j
2:                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment an the legal status                         .iD
rr;               --   International Boundaries                        Jt anytemtoryorany                              o                              .         ,          1 :1
:S                                                                    endarsement ar acceptance of ro\/                                                       f~   
_                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ~     ~     ~ ~~such baundaries.... 
cD~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Du
9MEDE9NIN°              \         ./ NIGER   > CHAD   ~' -
I                   I                                      t                                 >    /              ;           L s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bn



