Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16778
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
(Loan No. 3064-TUN)
June 23, 1997
Private Sector, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
1 Tunisian dinar (TD) (1989)  =   $1.07
1 U.S. dollar     (1989)  =   TD 0.94
1 Tunisian dinar (TD) (1996)  =   $1.04
1 U.S. dollar     (1996)  =   TD 0.99
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFH                Land Development Agency
ARRU               Urban Rehabilitation and Renewal Agency
BCT                Central Bank of Tunisia
BDU                Urban Data Bank
BH                 Housing Bank
CNEL               National Housing and Savings Fund
CNET               National Tunisian Savings Fund
CNRPS              Social Security and Retirement Fund
CNSS               National Social Security Fund
CPF                Land Registration
CPSCL              Local Communities Support Fund
DGATU              Regional and Urban Planning Department
FNAH               National Housing Improvement Fund
FOPROLOS           Workers' Housing Fund
IFC                International Finance Corporation
MEAT               Ministry of Environment and Regional Planning
MEH                Ministry of Infrastructure and lhousing
MPF                Ministry of Planning and Finance
ONAS               National Sewerage Authority
OTC                Office of Topography and Cartography
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
SNIT               National Real Estate Corporation
SPROLS             Public Housing Company
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President           Mr. Kemal Dervi~
Director                 Mr. Daniel Ritchie
Division Chief           Mr. Anir Al-Khafaji
Responsible Staff        Ms. Maryse Gautier, Municipal Engineer
Mr. Denis Chaput, Financial Sector Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Pages
Preface
Evaluation   Sum m ary       ............................................          .   i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................1..I
Housing   Sector  Background  ............................................     1
A. Project Objectives                              ..2
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives                    ..5
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    ..6
D.  Project Sustainability                          ..9
E. Bank Performance                                ..9
F.  Borrower Performance                            ..10
G.  Assessment of Outcome    ..                                                I
H. Future Activities              ..12
1.  Key Lessons Learned                             ..13
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment .16
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Table 3:       Project Timetable                                              18
Table 4:       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual     18
Table 5:       Key Project Implementation Indicators                          19
Table 5A:      BH's Financial Performance Ratios and Comments .20
Table 6:       Kev Project Performance Indicators                             22
Table 7:       Studies Included in the Project .23
Table 8A:  Project Costs .24
Table 8B:  Project Financing .25
Table 9:       Status of General Project Conditions .26
Table 10:      Compliance with the Bank's Manual of Procedures .28
Table 11:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Missions        .29
APPENDIX
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
(Loan No. 3064-TUN)
Preface
This is the implementation completion report for the Fifth Urban Project for which
the Government of the Republic of Tunisia received a loan in the amount of US$58 million
equivalent, signed on June 30, 1989. The loan took effect on January 23, 1990, and was
closed on December 31, 1996, after the initial closing date of June 30, 1995 was extended.
The last disbursement was made in May 1997 and the undisbursed balance of $56,000 was
cancelled. USAID participated in the project financing with a contribution of US$15
million.
This report was prepared by Aoufa Ezzine, a consultant, and Denis Chaput
(MN1PI) and was revised and supplemented by Maryse Gautier (MNlP1). It was
reviewed by Amir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief (MNIP1), and by Rene Costa, Project
Adviser (MN1DR). It was drafted for the most part on the basis of information contained
in the project documents and gathered during a field mission.  The Borrower has
contributed to preparation of the report by submitting its own project assessment, which is
attached as an annex.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
Loan No. 3064-TUN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Tunisia is a relatively urbanized developing country, since 61 percent of its
population of 8.7 million lives in urban areas (1994 values). The urban growth rate during
the last 10 years averaged 3.7 percent a year, with the population increasing at the rate of
2.3 percent'. This rapid increase in the urban growth rate is reflected in a consistently
high demand for infrastructure, serviced plots, and new housing, and in the need for
capital to finance them.
ii.    The project deals with several critical problems linked to development of the
housing sector in general and to housing finance more specifically. It comes at an
opportune time, since the Government has decided to make changes to allow the private
sector to play a greater role in the supply of low-cost housing (i.e., priced under TD
30,000, the equivalent of US$32,000).
Project Objectives
iii.   The purpose of the project was to facilitate implementation of the new housing
policy adopted by the Tunisian Government in July 1988. The project was designed
essentially to: (a) increase the supply of affordable housing by simplifying the allocation of
resources to low-income households, by mobilizing domestic savings and facilitating the
conversion in April 1989 of the National Housing and Savings Fund (Caisse nationale
d'epargne-logement or CNEL) into a housing bank (BH) with the legal status of a private
bank, and by granting a line of credit to this institution, which would be restructured to
focus on housing programs geared to low-income families; (b) increase participation by
the private sector in developing sites, building housing, and performing the topographic
work involved; (c) simplify the regulatory system governing land development and
housing construction; and (d) begin modernizing the land management information system
by simplifying land registration and management procedures.
Project Implementation and Outcome
iv.    Achievement of project objectives has been generally satisfactory:
Recent population growth has, however, slowed substantially; the figures for 1993 and 1994 are,
respectively, 1.84 and 1.70 percent.



.  Housing finance conditions, the primary objective of the project, have changed
considerably in Tunisia, as a result of the new opportunities offered by the loan, and
the newly established BH has adapted to its new role;
*  The assistance given in the areas of urban and regional planning was made possible
largely as a result of the 18-month extension of the closing date,
*  The objectives pertaining to improvement of the land information system, however,
were not achieved.
v.    The proceeds of the project, namely $58 million, were 99 percent (US$57.9m)
disbursed, a figure that included US$54.58 million allocated to the BH line of credit. This
facility also benefited from carryover of the land records component funding that was
canceled in 1995. Funds were disbursed at a very rapid pace during the early years of the
project, but the rate slowed starting in 1995, with the termination of technical assistance,
while the line of credit was mainly disbursed.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
vi.    The BH line of credit, 92 percent of which was used up two years after it was
made available, allowed the completion of 15,000 housing units and the upgrading of
2,200 units, open to low- and middle-income families, and increased private sector
participation in the housing and land market. At the same time, the BH improved its
management capacity by modifying its accounting and computer systems. The Ministry of
Infrastructure and Housing and the Ministry of Environment and Regional Planning,
created during project implementation, have made effective use of the available resources
in developing urban planning, housing, and regional planning strategies.
vii.   However, because of a failure to make the appropriate decisions and a lack of
coordination among the authorities concerned-Ministry of Justice, land registries, and
Office of Topography and Cartography-no substantial progress was made with the land
information system, a subject that had been under discussion since the early 1980s.
Project Sustainability
viii.  Project sustainability is partially assured by the importance of the housing finance
reforms in place, and also by the other projects in the process of being implemented or
under discussion. More sustainable results would nevertheless be achieved with deeper
strengthening of BH management and an opening of housing finance to commercial banks.
As far as strategies are concerned, sustainability will depend on follow-up activities
performed by the ministries acting as contracting authorities.  Important legislative
amendments to city planning texts have already brought about permanent changes.
However, there is still progress to be achieved in land management, but decisions must
first be made so that the pitfalls that occurred during this project can be avoided.



- iii -
Bank and Borrower Performance
ix.    The Bank was notably flexible in adapting to basic changes that occurred during
the preparation and implementation stages. Perhaps, however, it was too flexible on land
issues, when greater rigor on institutional organization during the preparation phase might
have prevented what was ultimately a failure.
x.    The Borrower's performance was satisfactory on the whole. Essential project
operations were carried out effectively. The weaknesses observed stemmed from: (a)
management shortcomings on the part of the BH, although this problem brought out the
fact that project financial control had been very effective in doing what was expected of it;
and (b) failure to make the appropriate decisions that would have advanced one of the
project components.
Lessons Learned
xi.    The main lessons have to do with the need to pursue housing finance reform in
Tunisia-by diversifying the financial products available on the market and by facilitating
financing for other banks to prevent a de facto monopoly by BH. The lessons taught by
the failure with the land management component should convince decisionmakers that any
new reform in the sector needs to be preceded by some key decisions, such as
appointment of a sole responsible official with access to adequate resources.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
(Loan No. 3064-TUN)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT BY THE BANK
Housing Sector Background
1.   - The housing sector has made impressive progress since independence. From 1975
to 1980, the rate of growth in housing outpaced the population growth rate. Despite a
population increase of 3.7 percent in urban areas since 1975, the housing market has
managed to respond satisfactorily to increased demand, from both a quantitative and
qualitative standpoint. The housing stock grew by about 5 percent a year, with 40,000 to
50,000 units added every year throughout the 1980s. The housing occupancy rate in
Tunisia went from 5.6 inhabitants in 1977 to 5.3 in 1986, so the number of units today is
close to the number of households. This development was achieved in spite of major
problems in the issuance of property titles and a substantial reduction in the supply of
serviced plots of land. The private sector was responsible for producing 70 percent of the
housing, including regulated and unregulated construction.
2.    Policies implemented by the Tunisian Government over the past 20 years have
improved the institutional system in place. A number of public agencies have been
established under the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing: SNIT (National Real Estate
Corporation) for home construction, ARRU (Urban Rehabilitation and Renewal Agency)
for renovation of urban areas, and AFH (Land Development Agency) for site
development. CNEL, the former Housing and Savings Fund, has been reorganized as the
Housing Bank (BH).
3.    However, at the end of the 1980s the sector encountered a growing number of
problems. The type of housing offered by the private sector, whether for individual
transactions or public housing programs, became increasingly expensive and so no longer
met the demands of many households. In addition, available credit terms in the housing
finance system left out the middle- and low-income households.
4.    Previous urban projects: Four previous projects were developed with the Bank's
assistance. The first and second, for $18 million and $19 million respectively, focused on
urban planning and urban transportation in Tunis and Sfax. The third and fourth projects
tackled the institutional restructuring of AFH and ARRU. Under the fourth project
specifically, subsidiary loans were offered to public and private developers to provide and
build on serviced lots. The present project and the municipal development project now



-2-
being implemented deal more with financial institutions, while the latter also focuses on
building up the Local Communities Support Fund (CPSCL). These projects have helped
the Bank to acquire a broad view of the issues involved in the urban sector and more
partially in the housing sector in Tunisia.
5.    Preparation for this project began as a result of two requests presented by the
Tunisian Government: the first concerned assessment of the extent of housing demand,
with a view to drawing up a five-year sector plan; and the second concerned the
improvement of land information.  Its preparation came after some twelve years of
continuous talks on the urban sector between the Government and the World Bank, plus
four earlier projects and as many sectoral studies, and was part of the new housing policy
announced by the Tunisian Government in July 1988. The main features of this new
policy were: (a) an increase in the supply of building lots, to be achieved by providing
incentives for the private sector and redirecting the focus of the public land development
agency toward low-income households; (b) an increase in available funds, to be achieved
by reorganizing the housing savings system; and, (c) revision of outdated construction and
infrastructure procedures and of urban planning regulations. In March 1989, Parliament
passed a law creating a new Housing Bank (BH), which was established on April 28,
1989.
A. Project Objectives
6.    The purpose of the project was to facilitate implementation of the new housing
policy adopted by the Tunisian Government in July 1988. The project was designed
essentially to accomplish the following: (a) increase the supply of affordable housing by
simplifying allocation of the resources for low-income households by mobilizing domestic
savings, facilitating the conversion of the National Housing and Savings Fund into a
housing bank, and granting a line of credit to that institution, which would be restructured
to gear its operations to housing programs for low-income families; (b) increase
involvement of the private sector in site development, housing construction, and
topographical work; (c) simplify the regulatory system governing land development and
housing construction; and (d) begin modernizing the land information management system
by simplifying procedures for the registration and conveyancing of property.
7.    The project had three components:  housing finance, technical assistance, and
management of information on land.
Housing Finance
8.    This component was the key element of the project, and followed the conversion
of CNEL into a housing bank, which took place in April 1989. Included were training and
technical assistance programs required to accomplish this, and a US$51 million line of
credit to the new institution to fund loans for subprojects for the following purposes:
(a) Production of low and moderate-cost serviced lots by developers;



-3-
(b) Construction of low and moderate-cost housing by developers;
(c) Purchase of new low and moderate-cost housing by individuals;
(d) Construction of low and moderate-cost housing by individuals;
(e) Expansion and rehabilitation of housing by individuals.
Technical Assistance
9.    This component focused on capacity building throughout the Ministry of
Infrastructure and Housing (iEH) and its agencies, so that MEH could implement and
ensure- supervision of the new housing policy adopted by the Government in July 1988.
This included new land development and housing construction regulations and
reorganization of two parastatal entities: the National Real Estate Corporation (SNIT)
and the Land Development Agency (AFH). The objective was to help the Government
pull out of the housing production sector, thereby benefiting private sector operators, and
to center Government attention on policy formulation and monitoring, to ensure that the
regulations and procedures in effect are enforceable and are being enforced.
10.   More specifically, this institutional support targeted capacity building within 2VIEH,
BH, AFH, and SNIT, as follows:
(a)   MEH:
(i)    Studies on legislation and regulations applicable to urban and land
planning, and development and implementation of a program to simplify these laws and
regulations;
(ii)   Studies on the rental market;
(iii)  Implementation of a program  to improve urban development
management structures, to consist of: (a) a study on restructuring programming and
coordination processes; (b) introduction of a regional planning information system; (c)
design of a master plan for development of the Greater Tunis Area; (d) a preparatory
study on information systems to facilitate the management of urban development; and (e)
introduction of a pilot system for metropolitan Tunis;
(iv)   Supply of equipment and documentation;
(v)   Provision of a training program for MEH staff.



-4-
(b)   BH:
(i)    Technical assistance with introduction of new type of internal
organization, based chiefly on:  (a) adoption and administration of new savings
instruments; (b) creation of a marketing division, and (c) building up of its evaluation
capacity;
(ii)   Development and adoption of a management information system;
(iii)   Development and implementation of a personnel training program;
(iv)   Procurement of computer hardware/software.
- (c)   AFH and SNIT:
Finalization and adoption of performance contracts incorporating the
following provisions:
(i) Preparation and implementation of training programs for AFH and
SNIT staff,
(ii) Development and adoption of an information and management system,
by the AFH and SNIT;
(iii) Supply of materials, equipment, and computer hardware/software.
Management of Land Information
11.   This component consisted of immediate and medium-term steps to put in place a
cartographic and land documentation system designed to meet the needs of users involved
in land development or improvement projects (central government, local governments,
property agencies, public service concession holders, and public and private developers).
12.   While cartographic documentation was to be built up and expanded through map
development, land registration efforts were to consist of
(a)   Implementation of a program to improve property registration in Tunisia,
bring land records up to date, and provide equipment and documentation;
(b)   Action to increase the capacity of the Topography and Cartography Office
(OTC) to gather cartographic and topographic data, prepare cadastral maps, and supply
regional OTC offices with equipment and documents,
(c)   Drafting and application of an OTC performance contract.



-5-
Project Organization
13.   NEH was initially the agency made primarily responsible for implementing the
technical assistance components of the project, with the exception of that focused on the
BH, and for managing the property information system. The BH was responsible for
implementing the housing financing component and for building up its own institutional
capacity.  When the Ministry of Environment and Regional Planning (MEAT) was
established during project implementation, some of MEH's institutional capacity building
responsibilities (specifically, those relating to land management) were transferred to
MEAT: (a) study of ways to reorganize the programming and coordination processes; (b)
introduction of an information system for regional land use planning; and (c) preparation
of a master development plan for the Greater Tunis Area.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
14.   For the most part, the project met its objectives for the housing finance and
institutional support components. It did not, however, attain its goals for the land
information management component.
15.   By strengthening a recently created housing bank with the legal status of a joint
stock company, this project facilitated the development of the housing sector, which
accounts for about one-fifth of annual sector investments in Tunisia.  This solid,
independent financial institution, BH, is capable of meeting 75 percent of the housing
sector's identified financing needs while taking little or no funds from the Government
budget. The project helped promote the use of credit to finance housing and to change
people's way of thinking on the subject. It also helped reduce, over time, the informal
sector's share of investments. In addition, private developers received an encouragement
with this project. One of the successes of the project was the development of the private
construction industry through a new line of credit.
16.   The project was primarily geared to serving low-income households, by providing
housing that costs less than TD 30,000. The initial line of credit of US$51 million was
increased to US$54 million in 1995, and it was entirely spent, benefiting modest
households with low-cost housing (TD 30,000) and small lots (200 sm).
17.   The training, research, and equipment programs that were part of the project's
second component made it possible to supervise and implement the new housing policy
adopted by the Government. At the same time, laws on urban development and
construction were revised to encourage the growing participation of the private sector in
servicing lots and building housing, and the AFH was restructured to gear its operations to
developing smaller land parcels with lower equipment standards and to improve its
management. In addition, the AFH and the BH have enhanced their cooperation and have
included low-income housing in their joint program. Nevertheless, SNIT, and at a lesser
degree AFH, did not completely achieve their objective of capacity strengthening.



-6 -
18.   The objectives of the land information management component were not achieved.
Work to devise a plan of action to modernize cartography/topography services and land
registration arrangements and to simplify registration procedures, one of the conditions for
disbursement of the loan proceeds, got off to a late start, and no recommendations were
ever implemented under the project, because of failure by the agencies concerned to act.
No disbursements were made under this component. It was canceled in 1995.
19.   The financial participation of USAID  and good coordination with the Bank
facilitated the achievement of objectives. USAID contributed US$15 million to the BH,
funds that were spent entirely on a general program whose objectives were in line with the
Bank's. Its purpose, in fact, was to facilitate the conversion of CNEL into a bank and to
encourage private sector involvement in the land development for housing.
C. Implementation Record and Main Factors Affecting the Project
20.   The original project closing date was June 30, 1995. However, the project was
finally closed on December 31, 1996, or 18 months late, because of delays in starting up
certain studies for the institutional support component, and cancellation of the land
information component.  The funds for this component, namely US$3 million, were
reallocated to the housing component.
Housing Finance
21.   This component, which is the key element of the project -- accompanying the
conversion of the National Housing and Savings Fund into a Housing Bank -- was a
complete success. The credit line granted to the BH so that it could offer loans to
developers and private individuals to build and purchase housing was spent more rapidly
than initially anticipated. Two years after the project started, 92 percent of the total line
of credit had been disbursed and spent. It allowed an increased number of low-income
households to use this type of financing, and marked an enormous change in housing
finance methods in Tunisia, where this type of financing was used on a marginal basis and
was confined to a high-income segment of the population. It also allowed the private
sector to develop. It must be noted, though, that the private sector benefited mainly from
the project in housing building, not from land development. Land development did not
take advantage of the project to expand.
22.   The management capacity of the new BH has benefited to a great extent from the
project. All the steps required to convert CNEL into the BH were taken at the scheduled
times. Thus, a plan of action determining the internal structure of the BH, including a new
organization chart, the opening of several offices in various parts of the country, and staff
training in banking procedures and information systems, was drawn up and implemented,
as was a strategic plan setting forth the guidelines for its development on the basis of the
changing environment. Moreover, a master plan for computerization of the BH was
designed and put in place, in addition to an accounting plan financed by USAID.



-7-
23.   However, the financial auditor discovered irregularities amounting to nearly US$9
million over the period 1990-92. The Bank took a firm position in reaction to this finding,
and required that these amounts be repaid or else the component would be suspended.
The BH, which immediately promised that it would straighten out this situation, kept its
word, and the Bank was not asked to make any disbursements until the amounts owing
were reimbursed.
Modernization of Urban Planning Regulations
24.   The Ministry of Infrastructure carried out all operations scheduled for the housing
and urban development sectors in full, including staff training, supply of equipment, and
studies, and all within the established deadlines.  Thus the Department of Urban
Development managed to improve urban development laws by issuing all the
implementing provisions for the Urban Development Code. In addition, studies on the
equipment grid and the standardized map legend for urban areas will make it possible to
harmonize urban planning throughout the country. Finally, studies such as the one on
urban strategy, public housing policy, and housing costs and pricing have provided a basis
for quality management of the housing and urban development sector. The Ministry of
Equipment and Housing should, however, not delay in using all these studies to its
advantage.
25.   Progress in developing the urban data bank (BDU), which was initiated by the
District of Tunis and was recently, in January 1996, converted into an urban agency, has
been held up because of insufficient coordination with the other ministries and institutions
involved. In fact, compilation of the basic cartographic data, which should logically have
been done by the OTC, was in fact done by the District of Tunis. This had the effect of
slowing down efforts to complete the data bank under the project.
26.   Finally, even though the performance contracts for AFH, SNIT, and OTC were
concluded, they did not lead to specific action, and the operations of these agencies only
improved very slightly as a result.
Regional Planning Studies
27.   A study on the Master Plan for Development of the Greater Tunis Area was
mostly completed apart from publication of the final report, which was financed by
MEAT. It has been delayed as compared to the original schedule for two reasons: (a)
study implementation slowed down at the time the Ministry of Environment and Regional
Planning was set up, since it subsequently took over this work; (b) the start of the second
phase was deferred because of delays in publishing the survey data. This study, which was
conducted as part of preparations for the Ninth Plan, contains a large amount of
information that should guarantee that the development of metropolitan Tunis will be
consistent with the various existing sectoral programs and with national development
efforts. Moreover, an analysis of watersheds carried out during the project has provided a
plan for protecting cities against floods.



-8-
Computerization of Services
28.   This sector is the weak link in the project implementation chain. In fact, within the
TA program only two studies could not be completed and they both had to do with
computerization: a study on the master plan for computerization (PDI) of MEH; and the
AFH information study.
29.   Despite close supervision by the Bank and attentive assistance from the outset of
the project, the PDI study experienced many problems. The terms of reference for the
study, however, were completed as part of this project. The Ministry still maintains its
objectives and the PDI could be financed either by MEH budget or as part of the seventh
road project currently underway. The AFH information study also experienced an
important delay during the preparation phase. In fact, a prior study on organization of the
agency proved necessary, and this was carried out with French Government assistance in
1996.  As a result, there was not enough time left to carry out and complete the
information study under this project.
30.   The primary factors behind these problems seem to have to do with the initial
definition of a master computer plan, which pertains not only to acquisition of equipment,
but to an in-depth study on organization, which the institutions were perhaps not ready to
undertake. These studies were important enough that they should have been opened to
international consulting services. Another reason for the delay could have been the
creation of the new computer organization in the Government, in the form of the General
Computer Secretariat, and its newly-created procedures.
Management of Land Information
31.   This component did not deliver the expected results.  One condition for
disbursement under this project component, in fact, was a report on the measures planned
to modernize and simplify registration procedures in OTC and CPF. An initial report was
drafted as part of the conclusions of the Eighth Plan (1992-96). However, the plan's
forecasts established in 1993, or five years later than the planned date, were unrealistic and
so a new plan of action was drawn up in 1995. Despite its imperfections, mainly the lack
of a summary analysis and failure to give adequate treatment to key problems, it
constituted an additional step, marked by the promulgation of Law No. 95-10 of January
15, 1995 to improve procedures.  Previously, the OTC performance contract was
published in March 1991 for the 1992-96 period.  In addition, a new ministry for
Government property and land matters was created in 1991.
32.   Despite these efforts to bring substantial improvements to the land information
system, the Government decided to request that the funds for this component be
transferred over to the housing component in 1995, thereby extending the closing date of
the project and putting a definitive end to any attempt at reform in this area of the project.



-9-
33.   To upgrade the legal system, the institutions in charge of implementing it must be
overhauled. The main obstacle to the effective operation of this component was the fact
that it was impossible to ensure satisfactory coordination because of the absence of a
ranking of authority among the three institutions involved, namely the Real Estate Court,
CPF, and OTC. The nonfunctioning of the land registration system and the frozen titles
were aggravated by the fact that responsibilities were diluted among the ministries. After
examining various possibilities for reforming the system, the Government nonetheless
decided to confirm the current arrangements based on three executing agencies whose
powers remained unchanged. It is in this context that a new programming exercise is to
be initiated.
D. Project Sustainability
34.   The results of this project will most likely prove sustainable. Project continuity is
ensured partially by the initial municipal development project which, like this project, is
assisting local officials in making fundamental changes in the area of institutional public
sector functions; and by the implementation of the Second Municipal Development
Project. The objective of these two projects is to increase the capacity of the local
authorities to finance investments, develop their capacity to collect revenues, and build
their institutional capacity as effective service providers. In the area of urban planning, the
results achieved could be lasting because of the enactment of several urban laws (see para.
24); the results could be even reinforced with efforts made by MEH to implement and
follow up on studies to make advantage of analyses and recommendations.
35.   Project sustainability will also depend on sustained financing.  This could be
provided by building the institutional system for financing housing, which would involve
supporting the development of the BH, strengthening its management, and encouraging
the banking sector to participate in and to finance housing.
E. Bank Performance
Identification/Appraisal
36.   Discussions between the Bank and Tunisian officials during the preparation phase,
up to 1987, were geared to putting two projects in place: the first was designed to deal
with the land information system; and the second was confined to the housing loan sector.
The project to simplify and modernize the land registry system had been under discussion
since 1983 and had undergone several revisions.
37.   An initial appraisal took place in July 1987 at a time when all the persons in charge
were being changed. On the side of the Borrower, there was a change of presidents, a
change in Government, and new SNIT and AFH directors, and on the side of the Bank, a
reorganization was underway. A second appraisal mission was therefore sent out in
October 1988. It followed some important decisions: (a) the changes at the head of
Government caused a review of the land registrv project and an additional feasibility study



- 10 -
was launched; (b) the Government decided to convert CNEL into a housing bank. The
decision was then made to group the two projects together into an urban project, which
was identified as such in 1988. The two major obstacles to housing development were
thus brought together: the land information system and the housing finance system. The
fundamental question of designating a high-level official in charge of the land component,
stressed by the Bank at the time, was left unanswered, and implementation of the
component suffered as a result. If, during this preparatory phase, the Bank had exerted
greater pressure to resolve the problems that it had correctly identified, this would
probably have helped advance the project.
Supervision
38.   Bank supervision continued on a very regular basis. Developing the management
capacity (start-up and supervision) of the various studies, supervision of land registration,
and supervision of contracts are all areas where the Bank worked intensively and
constructively.  The aide-memoires and information transmitted sought to help the
Borrower overcome its problems, especially in the area of computerization of the ministry,
where specific missions of specialists were sent out, and in the area of land registration,
where recommendations for coordination and for launching the plan of action were
repeated constantly and persistent attempts were made to facilitate study and analysis.
However, the line of credit was monitored with partial data, and BH level of performance,
as emphasized in para. 40, could have been noted earlier.
F. Borrower Performance
Management of the Line of Credit Component
39.   The BH has played a key role in the effective implementation of the project and its
line of credit. It has managed to adapt to its new status by making improvements in terms
of accounts and computer processing. It has performed its functions effectively, and has
kept the Bank informed of implementation of the component. It reacted quickly to
requests to transfer amounts from the land information component and it increased
spending in the category receiving the new funds. However, it has allowed irregularities
to occur over a two-year period, without exercising the necessary control or making the
necessary corrections. Yet once the problem was brought to light, BH proceeded to make
the necessary corrections. Financial control, in contrast, was performed satisfactorily.
40.   Even though the project objectives did not deal with the financial performance of
BH, a financial assessment of BH performance indicators is provided in the annex (see
Table 5A and joint comments), based on 1994 and 1995 audits. The 1996 BH audit was
also provided, but too late to be included in the calculations. The main findings stress
some weaknesses in BH portfolio management, such as nonperforming loans and
underprovisioning. The capital adequacy ratio was still below the ratio required by Bank
regulation but is expected to increase with the additional TD 15 million in provisioning



- 11 -
approved in 1995 and implemented in two steps: half in December 1996 and half in July
1997.
Management of the Technical Assistance Component
41.   Overall, MEH did a good job managing the component under its responsibility. A
large number of studies were undertaken, many in areas of strategic value, and so
supervision was complex. Most of the studies were completed on time and were of
satisfactory quality, with the exception of the master plan for computerization, where the
pertinent decisions were not made, as explained earlier. The Urban Agency also did a
good job managing the studies under its authority. Implementation of the BDU, which is
now virtually completed, currently poses an important challenge to the Agency, which
must make sure that this tool is widely used by the communes and other institutions. Now
the Agency needs to learn how to make itself known and to make sure others are aware of
the quality of the tools it has available. The AFH and the SNIT did not achieve altogether
satisfactory results. AFH finished its accounting study but did not complete the study of its
information system. As for SNIT, its performance contract did not lead to any concrete
decisions.
Management of the Land Information Component
42.   This component was not managed in a satisfactory way. First of all, the initial plan
of action was not put into effect until 1993, five years after the scheduled date. This plan
was not followed by actual achievements, despite the active participation of the Bank,
which analyzed the plan and proposals for future measures in January 1995. Second, the
steps needed to appoint an official to head this component were never taken, which later
proved to be a serious mistake, when the component failed.
Procurement
43.   Contracts for studies were put out in observance of rules of competition.
However, various problems arose, such as: (a) difficulties in expeditiously producing
adequate, precise terms of reference; (b) problems linked to use of open bidding
procedures for studies; and (c) problems in establishing a balanced relationship between
the chief contractor and the consultant while the studies were being performed. Changes
in the rules are expected-there is a study underway under the aegis of the Ministry of
Economic Development-and they should improve the general situation.
G. Assessment of Outcome
44.   Generally speaking, the outcome of the project was satisfactory, despite the
problems noted in the land management information component.



- 12 -
Housing finance
45.   The line of credit granted to the BH for housing loans led to the following results:
(a)   Development of 160 hectares of urban land into serviced lots where 14,199
housing units were built;
(b)   Mortgages totaling US$67 million were granted to individuals for
construction or purchase of housing;
(c)   Expansion of the limited operations of CNEL, by converting it into a true
housing bank and strengthening the personnel of the BH through a systematic training
program;
(d)   Training of a new category of private developers capable of gradually
taking over most of the current functions of SNIT and AFH;
(e)   Development and enlargement of 2,212 housing units for private
individuals.
Institutional support
46.   Support by the Tunisian Government for housing, urban planning, and regional
planning has been provided through training programs, studies, and equipment for MEH
and its agencies, the BH and MEAT. More specifically, studies were conducted to
improve urban planning laws, define a rental housing policy, and manage urban
development. These studies led to a bill to revise the urban planning code; to reform of
the local tax system, in a law passed in January 1997; to analyses and recommnendations on
housing finance and the land market; to the introduction of a computer development plan
in NEH, along with staff training and computer equipment; and to the first phase of the
master plan for development of the Greater Tunis area.
47.   Work to modernize the land registry system and to create basic topographic maps,
originally programmed as part of the project, was not carried out.
H. Future Activities
48.   The housing sector in Tunisia has performed well over the past twentv years and
has reached a new threshold. To enable it to advance even further, new reforms are
needed to cover housing finance, the operation of the land system, the rental market, and
management of the existing housing stock. Future Bank projects in the area of urban
development should include these aspects. A Second Municipal Development Project is
expected to be effective around November 1997. It would continue efforts to build the
capacity of local governments to manage urban services. Moreover, the various talks that
have taken place have pointed to the possibility of preparing a new project to rehabilitate



- 13 -
old buildings, and there are plans to resume talks on land information, so that a more
realistic project can be developed. However, sustainability in housing finance has not been
achieved, since BH management still need improvement and sector reforms are still
necessary.
I. Key Lessons Learned
49.   Project implementation has led to the following recommendations for the housing
sector in general, and for its financing and the land market in particular:
(a)   A mortgage refinancing market should be developed so that banks can
finance part of the sector's needs by selling high-yield mortgage certificates.
The housing sector began encountering problems in the 1990s. The type of
housing provided by the private sector, whether through private transactions or in public
housing programs, became increasingly expensive and/or unattractive for many
households. In addition, the lending terms offered by the housing finance system made the
financial conditions inappropriate for a growing number of low- and middle-income
households. Development of a mortgage refinancing arrangement accessible to all present
or potential lenders would provide a stable solution to this situation. By creating a
secondary mortgage market, banks could cover some of the sector's financing
requirements by selling high-yield mortgages.  An operation such as this would be
beneficial to them while at the same time be consistent with their furnctions and with their
obligations to their members to be financially efficient. In addition, it would help make
housing finance more widely available.
(b)   At the same time that a mortgage refinancing arrangement is put in
place, the Government and the Bank need to explore the possibility of reforming
numerous aspects of housing finance.
Areas open to reform include lending terms, rates, the tax system, and resources of
banking institutions. Further, the fact that it is impossible to obtain loans to purchase old
buildings particularly affects families looking for their first home, and is not favorable
either to rotating the housing stock or to adapting types of housing to the changing needs
of households.
(c)    The strengthening of BH should be sustained and housing finance
should be extended to other banks, to avoid the pitfalls and consequences of a defacto
monopoly situation for BH.
(d)   Housing credit should be expanded to cover all households.
Foreign funds for financing housing do not cover the 'sandwich" category, those
persons whose income is higher than households with access to FOPROLOS (social fund
for low-income housing), but not high enough for them to personally supplement the BH



- 14 -
credit. A small part of this project will be geared to this group, and this initiative should
be fiirther developed.
(e)     The institutional aspects of the land information system should be
studied and responsibility for implementation should be given to a single institution.
The current land registry system is long and complicated, and involves three
institutions-OTC, CPF, and the Real Estate Court-each of which has a different legal
status, is under a different authority, and operates according to different jurisdictional
arrangements in different parts of the country.
The lack of coordination among these three institutions and the absence of a higher
authority have been the main causes of the failure of the land component.
(f)    The underlying causes of the freeze on land titling must be resolved
before the pace of land registration can be stepped up.
Failure to register land transactions is attributed to, among other things, extremely
high inheritance taxes and transfer taxes or fees.
(g)   Incentives such as a national and local land tax system should be put in
place-
In the absence of a complete land registry, the Government does not have a
practical land system. This tax would provide an equitable source of revenue, based on a
professional appraisal of the land value.
(h)   The increase in unregulated housing construction should be gradually
brought to an end in the Greater Tunis area.
(i)    Land and real estate watchdog agencies should be set up to produce
reliable data so that the management needs, as well as the management and
maintenance costs, of the existing real estate stock can be determined, and so that the
structure and performance of the private sector will be more apparent.
6()    The housing aid system should be reviewed with a view to ensuring that
only the poor segments of the population receive government subsidies.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
(Loan No. 3064-TUN)
PART II
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table    1:  Summary of Assessments
Table    2:  Related Bank Loans
Table    3:  Project Timetable
Table    4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table    5:  Key Project Implementation Indicators
Table    5A: BH's Financial Performance Ratios and Comments
Table    6:  Key Project Performance Indicators
Table    7:  Studies Included in the Project
Table    8A: Project Costs
Table    8B: Project Financing
Table    9:  Status of General Project Conditions
Table   10:  Compliance with the Bank's Manual of Procedures
Table   11:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table   12:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 16 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial      Negligible     applicable
Macroeconomic
Sectoral policy                     X
Financial objectives                                X
Institutional development                           X
Phvsical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                                   X
Environmental objectives                            X
Public sector management                                                         X
Development of private sector                       X
Sustainabilitv                                      x
Bank Performance
Identification                       X
Preparation                                         X
Appraisal                            X
Supervision                                         X
Borrower performance
Preparation                          X
Implementation                                      X
Legal aspects                                       X
Assessment of Outcome                X



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loanlcredit title                   Purpose                 approval    Status
Previous Projects
1. First Urban Development  - Establishing the District of              Closed in 1982
|Project                 Tunis
(Loan 432-TUN,          - Renovation of a railway line
US$18m)
2. Second Urban           - First Bank project in the         1979       Closed in 1985
Development Project      housing sector
(Loan 1705-TUN,         - Urban projects in Tunis and
US$19m)                  Sfax
- Rehabilitation and upgrading of
low-income neighborhoods
with the creation of ARRU
3. Third Urban          - Improvement of housing           1983       Closed in 1993
Development Project      conditions for the poor
(Loan 2223-TUN,         - Institutional support in the
US$25m)                  housing sector
4. Fourth Urban           - Same as for the Third UDP         1986       Closed in 1995
Development Project
(Loan 2736-TUN,
US$30.2m)
Subsequent Projects
I. Municipal Development   - Institutional support to the    1992       Ongoing
Project (Loan 3507-TUN,   local authorities in municipal
US$75m)                  management
2. Second Municipal       - Development of urban services     1997       Scheduled to
Development Project      and institutional capacity                   begin in
(equivalent to $80 million)   building                                November
1997



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned                    Actual date
Identification                            1985                           1985
Preparation                               1987                           1987
Appraisal                                11/1988                        11/1988
Negotiations                             3/1989                         3/1989
Board Presentation                      5/18/1989                     5/18/1989
Signing                                 6/30/1989                     6/30/1989
Entry into force                        9/30/1989                      1/23/1990
Closing of Loan                         6/3011995                     12/3 1/1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)
Fiscal Year          1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Appraisal estimate     2.30    9.90    24.40    37.80    48.20    56.30   58.00    58.00
Actual                33.63   43.56    49.53    51.89    52.98    53.60    55.50    57.94
Actual as % of        14.62    4.40     2.02      1.37    1.10    0.95      0.96     1.00
estimate
Date of last           6/90    6/91     6/92     6/93     6/94     6/95     5/96     5/97
disbursement



-19-
Table 5: Key Project Implementation Indicators
(BH Performance Ratios)
Actual*
Key indlicators           Estimated         1989      1990      1991       1992       1993       1994        1995        1996
1.  Annlual sprcad on loans ()   >= 2 poinits         N.D.      N.D.      2.35       2.81       2.54        2.50         1.89        3.16
2.  Debt-equity ratio            c=15/1                12.6      15.7    13.5         7.6        8.8         9.12        9.5         8.6
3.  DebI-scrviceratio            >I,i  a1               2.4       1.7      1.4        1.7        1.8         1.6         1.6         1.'
4.  Liquidity ratio (%)          >= 10% savings        16.69     13.51     6.38      12.47      19.59       45.14       59.91       91.41
5.  Commilmenl ratio             <20 % .  . .               ._.
As reported by RH



- 20 -
Table 5A: Financial Performance Ratios
.____________________________.___________________________ .1995                      1994
Profitabilitv Ratios
As a % of average total assets:
- total interest income                                                6.26%            6.24%
- net interest income                                                  3.18%            3.05%
- non-interest income                                                  0.98%            0.84%
- total operating expenses                                             2.97%            2.80%
- net profit (pre-tax)                                                 1.11%            1.14%
- net profit (post-tax)                                                0.85%            0.82%
Total interest expense as % of average interest bearing liabilities    3.45%            3.61%
Return on average equitv (pre-tax)                                    20.86%           19.38%
Return on average equitv (post-tax)                                   15.87%           13.96%
Operating expenses/gross operating income                             41.10%           39.54%
Net intermediation margin                                              3.20%            2.95%
Average total balance sheet assets                                995,229,909      881,223.329
Average shareholders' funds                                        53,132,522       51.979.273
Average interest bearing liabilities                              886,239,987      782.007.955
Average interest earning assets                                   935,838.226      838.469.059
Capital Adequacy                                                                               l
Total Capital to risk-weighted assets                                  4.67%            6.54%
Tier I and qualifying portion of Tier 2 capital to risk-weighted assets  4.67%          6.54%
Risk-weighted balance sheet assets/Total balance sheet assets         58.70%           55.41%
Risk-weighted off balance sheet assets/Total risk weighted assets     34.07%           35.99%
Asset Quality                                                                                  l
Value of Loan Loss Provision as % of Total Loans                       2.75%            2.70%
Value of Loan Loss Provision as % of non-performing loans             34.03%              n.a.
Non-performing ("bad loans") as % of Total Loans                       8.08%              n.a.
Value of loans overdue (>90 days) as % of Total Loans                 20.86%              n.a
Non-performing loans over 50000 TD as % of loans over 50000 TD        26.43%              n a.



- 21 -
Summary Assessment of BH's Financial Performance
1. Asset quality:
Loans represent 83 percent of BH total assets which reach 1.05 billion TD at the
end of 1995. One third of the loan portfolio is funded by special financing sources which include
the second, third and fourth Urban Development Loan granted by the World Bank, grants from
USAID, and funds from FOPROLOS. The credit risk on more than 90 percent of loans funded by
special resources is borne by the government. For these loans, BH acts on an agency basis in
exchange for management fees on loan collection and disbursement. The auditors' report on
internal control mentions that the collection rate on these loans is relatively weak without
providing specific data. For the remaining two thirds of the loan portfolio, loans for more than 90
days represent more than 20 percent of total loans, which is two times higher than for most
Tunisian banks. More accurate information is provided on loans over 50000 TD which have to be
individually classified in accordance with bank regulation. For loans over 50000 TD, non-
performing loans overdue for more than one year account for more than 25 percent of the total.
Non-performing bridge financing loans to real estate developers are particularly high at more than
40 percent of the total. Underprovisioning is estimated at 12.4 million TD in the 1995 audit
report. This adjustment would raise loan provisions from 2,75 percent to 5 percent of total loans.
2. Earnings
After-tax return on assets was 0.85 percent in 1995, which is equal to the average
return on assets achieved by the 12 Tunisian deposit taking banks. At 3.2 percent, the BH net
intermediation margin before provisions is also in line with the banking system's average. Non-
interest expenses are 41 percent of gross operating income, which is high on an international scale
but lower than for most Tunisian banks. However, the BH overall satisfactory earnings
performance should be interpreted by taking into account the rather systematic underprovisioning
of its loan portfolio. The annual addition to loan provisions represents less than 20 percent of pre-
provision earnings in 1995. A higher provision rate consistent with the required upward
adjustment of loan provisions estimated in the audit report would have reduced earnings
significantly.
3. Capital Adequacy
Owing to the credit risk assumed bv the government on loans funded by special
resources, about a third of BH loan portfolio is given a zero weight in the calculation of risk
weighted assets. This decreases BH's regulatory minimum level of capital. The capital to risk
weighted assets ratio was 4.7 percent in 1995, just short of the 5 percent ratio required by the
banking regulation. A 15 million TD addition to capital was approved in 1995 but was not
completed during the 1995 fiscal year according to the audit report. This capital contribution
would have raised the capital adequacy ratio above the statutory minimum.



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Project Performance Indicators
Key indicators                                  Estimated                 Actual
1. Servicing of lots                             250 ha                   160 ha
2. Construction of housing                        12,200                  14,200
3. Jobs in the housing sector                  12,000/year
4. Jobs in construction-related sectors         2,500/year
5. Number of housing units developed and          1,500                    2,212
enlarged
6. Loan share in housing finance            70% (instead of the            70%
previous 45%)
7. Loans granted to individuals for       Equivalent of US$160m          US$67m
construction or purchase of housing



- 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                                 Status                          Impact
Improvement of urban planning laws  Completed       Revision of urban planning code and its
implementing provisions
Definition of a rental housing policy   Completed   Discussions on reform of the rental market and
(12/1991)         management of the existing housing stock
Management of urban development   Completed         Start of a computerization plan for MEH
Town policy strategy             Completed          Proposal for a strategy based on different situations
(12/1996)         and accompanied by instruments for
implementation
Equipment grid                   Completed (1996)   Proposal for equipment standards in urban
planning documents
Standardized city legend         Completed (1996)   Harmonization of map legends for all urban
planning documents
Master plan for computerization of    PDI terms of  Now possible to launch PDI
MEH                              reference defined
in May 1996
Development of an urban data bank   Ongoing         Basic tool for development of urban planning for
metropolitan Tunis
Vacant housing in the District   Completed          Better information on the housing stock in Tunis
(September 1996)
Housing costs and prices         2nd phase          Economic trends in production of housing stock
completed in
September 1996
New housing strategy             Completed          Government consideration of projected trends
(February 1994)
Computerization of AFH           Not completed      NA
Introduction of cost accounting in  Completed (1996)   Better control of AFH accounts bv project
AFH
Plan for Development of Greater  Completed          Studv allowing for development of a unified
Tunis                                               metropolitan area with different programs
underwav
Introduction of an SIG           Ongoing            Management tool available to the Government
Analysis of watersheds           Completed          Plan for protecting towns against floods



- 24 -
Table 8A: Project Costs (USS millions)
Estimated                           Actual
Foreign
Local     Foreign                  Local      Curr.
Component               Currency   Currency      Total    Currency   (IBRD    TOTAL
____ ___ ___ share)  _ _ _ _ _ _
A.  Housing              121         66           187       143.29      69.84     213.13
B.  Institutional          1.6        3.4           5.01     0.75       3.06       3.81
support                                                       _
BI. MEH capacity           0.32       2.03          2.35     0.31        1.32      1.63
building
B2. Assistance and         1.07       1.17          2.24     0.17       0.69       0.86
equipment for the
BH
B3. SNIT and AFH           0.21       0.21          0.42     0.01       0.03       0.04
performance
contract
B4. MEAT                    -          -                     0.26        1.02      1.28
strengthening
C. Land information        2.35       5.67          8.02       0          0         0
management
C 1. Land registry         2.03       5.35          7.38       0          0         0
C2. Mapping                 .32       0.32          0.64      0           0         0
Project Total            124.9       75.07       200.3      144.04     72.90     216.94
*These figures are computed using 1989 as the base year: TD 1 = US$1.07.



- 25 -
Table 8B: Project Financing (USS millions)
Estimated                           Actual
Local    Foreign                  Local      Foreign
currency   currency    Total      currency    currency     Total
IBRD                             58          58                      57.9        57.9
USAID                            15          15                      15          15
Bilateral aid                     2.1         2.1         -           0           0
Tunisian contribution    124.9               124.9      144.04        0         144.04
Total                 124.9      75.1       200         144.04       72.9       216.94



- 26 -
Table 9: Status of General Project Conditions
Type of                      Date of
Agree-   Section   condition      Status       application            Description
ment
Loan       3.04        12     Compliance      April 1993      Provide an action plan for the
with a delay of                project's land component;
about 4 vears                  disbursement condition.
3.05        9      Partial         June 30 of     Discuss progress of
compliance      each year,     implementation of MEH urban
starting in    planning activities, and SNIT,
1990, until    AFH, and OTC performnance
loan closing   contracts.
date
4.01        1      Partial         Every year,    Present the accounts and entries
compliance      starting in    required to record operations.
(the 1996 audit  1990, up to the
are needed)     loan closing
date
4.02       12      Compliance      12/30/90        Introduce a system for
regulation of real estate
development.
Article     10      Compliance,     12/31/96       Closing of project on June 30,
2                with a delay of                 1995.
a vear and a
half
Article     10      Compliance      NA              Bidding terms: subject to Bank
4                                                agreement for amounts over
US$ 150,000.
Project    2.07         3     Compliance      NA              Special account-US$5 million
3.01        1      Partial         Every year,    BH audit report.
compliance      from 12/31/89
(except 1996    until
audit)          completion of
project
3.03        2      Compliance      NA             No new debts for the BH unless
its debt ratio is equal to no
more than 15/1.
3.04        2      Compliance      NA             No new debts for the BH unless



- 27 -
Type of                        Date of
Agree-   Section   condition       Status         application            Description
ment
its income is 1. 1 times its debt
service payments.
3.05         2     Compliance        NA              Annual return for the BH at
least 2% as of 1/90.
Article      10      Compliance       NA              Lending criteria for
11                                                  subprojects: TD 30,000 in
housing cost; TD 7,000 in land
cost; minimum densitv of
45uJha; 200 m2 maximum lot
size; built area = 40%.



- 28 -
Table 10: Compliance with the Bank's Manual of Procedures
No failures to comply with the manual of procedures wvere noted.
Stage of Project Cycle                 Planned        Actual        Planned       Actual
(weeks)       (weeks)        (US$)       US '000
Preparation                              n.a.           181.5         n.a.          411.5
Appraisal                                n.a.            453          n.a.          116.5
Negotiation through Board approval       n.a.            13.7         n.a.           37.8
Supervision                              n.a.           116.9         n.a.          370.7
Completion/closing                       n.a.             4.0         n.a.           20.0
TOTAL                                    n.a.          361.4          n.a.          956.5
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Estimated               Actual
Stage of                            US$                   USS
Project Cycle          Weeks    millions    Weeks    millions
Priortoappraisal        NA          NA        181.5      411.5
Appraisal, signing       NA         NA         45.3       116.5
Signing, entry into     NA          NA         13.7       37.8
force
Supervision              NA         NA        116.9      370.7
Completion               NA         NA          4.0       20.0
TOTAL                    NA         NA        361.4      956.5



- 29 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                No. of   No. of                          Perfor-    Develop-
Project Cycle  M/A    Persons  Weeks                              mance        ment
l ____________   ______   ________   _______  Specialized  Skills            Objectives       Problems
Supervision    10/89       3      26       Urban Planner             I           I       Start of land
Financial Analvst                            information action
Housing Spec.                                plan with a Bank
expert.
Reorganization of
BH.
Contract-program of
|_____    ______                                    _________     AFH   and  SNIT.
Supervision    02V90       2      2.2      Urban Planner             1          I        Disbursement of
Housing Spec.                                line of credit faster
than expected.
*   Slow MEH
component
*   Land infor-
mation management
action plan
Supervision    07/90       3      2.6      Sr. Urban Planner         I           I       BH action plan,
Sr. Financial Analyst                        land and housing
Housing Spec.                                development
studies.
Supervision    04/91       3      2        Sr. Urban Planner        I           I        Need of TA for BH
Sr. Financial Analyst                        strategic plan;
Housing Spec.                                First discussions on
TOR for MEH
information plan
studv.
Supervision    04/92       2      2        Mun.Fin. Spec.            I           I       Lack of acceptable
Sr. Housing Spec.                            action plan for the
land inforrnation
component.
Supervision    12/92       3      3.8      Sr. Urban Planner         I          I        Revision of urban
Sr. Fin. Analyst                             planning code.
Sr. Housing Spec.
Supervision    05/93       2      1.8      Sr. Urban Planner        2           2        90% of line of credit
Sr. Housing Spec.                            disbursed.
Lack of acceptable
action plan for the
land information
component.



- 30 -
Stage of                No. of   No. of                          Perfor-   Develop-
Project Cycle   M/A    Persons   Weeks    Specialized Skills      mance       ment
Objectiv        Problems
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __________   e s
Supervision    12/93       3      2.4      Sr. Urban Planner        2          2       Misuse of funds by
Sr. Fin. Analyst                           BH signaled by
Sr. Housing Spec.                          Contr6leur General
des Finances.
Supervision    06/94       1      0.6      Sr. Urban Planner        2          2       Agreement by MEH
and Ministry of Plan
for preparation of a
revised action plan on
land registration.
Supervision    12/94       3      2.4      Sr. Urban Planner        S          S       Correction of misuse
Mun. Engineer                              of ftunds bv BH.
. ____________          ________            Sr. Fin. Analyst
Supervision    03/95       1      1        Sr. Urban Planner        S          S       Studv on Greater
Tunis Master Plan has
started.
Supervision    06/95       3      2        Sr. Urban Planner        S          S       Study on Strategic
Sr. Fin. Analvst                           Role of Cities has
Mun. Engineer                              started:
Report of closing date.
Supervision    01/96       2      2        Sr. Urban Planner        S          S       Slow implementation
Mun. Engineer                              of information studies
l____                               ______  of MEH and AFH.
Supervision    04/96       1      1        Mun. Engineer            S          S       Greater Tunis Master
Plan implementation
has slowed down
waiting for
employment census
data.
Supervision     11/96      2      1.2      Mun. Engineer            S          S       Some delays in audit
Fin. Analyst                               reports.
Discrepancy on
disbursements with
BH accounts.
Completion     06/97       1      0.8      Municipal Engineer       S          S       Tunisian contribution
of ICR provided in
June 1997.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH URBAN PROJECT
(Loan No. 3064-TUN)
THE BORROWER'S REPORT
June 1997






REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPEMENT
ET DE L'HABITAT
DIRECTION GENERALE DE LA COOPERATION
DE LA PLANIFICATION ET DE LA
FORMATION DES CADRES
COOPERATION TUNISIE-BANQUE MONDIALE
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU
5e PROJET DU DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
JUIN 1997






SOMMAIRE
Pazes
Presentation du projet
I.    Introduction .....................................................
H  .  Objectifs .............................................2
III.  Realisation  5................ ......... ............. 5
IV.  Actions de soutien          .....................................................8
V.   P erforman                                                  e ..........................................9
VI. Perennit. 10
VII. Evaluation des resultats et recom       mandations ......11






RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU 5S PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
I. INTRO]DUCTIO :
Depuis son accession a l'lnd6pendance en 1956, la Tunisie a
accorde une attention particuliere au secteur de l'habitat et a oeuvre
pour assurer a l'ensemble des citoyens, les conditions d'une vie
decente.
Cette  attention  s'est  traduite  par  de  nombreuses
realisations dans les secteurs de l'enseignement, de la sante et de la
culture, I'amelioration  des  revenus  des  diff6rentes  categories
sociales, ainsi que celui de l'habitat et du raccordement des logements
aux reseaux d'eau potable, d'electricite, d'assainissement...
Le changement historique du 7 Novembre 1987 a permis de
consolider et d'am6liorer 1'ensemble de ces acquis a partir de la
coexistence des deux composantes economique et sociale dans la
politique de developpement du pays. Cette coexistence constitue une
garantie de croissance et de prosperite durables, visant I'am6lioration
continue des conditions de vie de 1'ensemble de la population et
oeuvrant a la consolidation des valeurs de justice sociale et des Droits
de l'Homme.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, la Tunisie a poursuivi, entre
autres, la realisation de plusieurs programmes d'habitat social et de
lutte contre la pauvrete des populations d6favoris6es et d'amelioration
des conditions de vie, aussi bien en milieu rural qu'en milieu urbain.
Ceci a permis l'accroissement du parc immobilier surtout en
faveur des categories aux revenus faibles ou moyens, parallblement a
l'amelioration des elements de confort des logements.
1



C'est ainsi que le recensement gen6ral de la population et de
l'habitat de 1994 a montre que le parc immobilier de la Tunisie s'lbve
a 1 870 058 logements, effectif sup6rieur & celui des m6nages qui est
de 1 704 800. Par ailleurs, la part des logements rudimentaires est
passee de 25,8% en 1975, a 8,8% en 1984 et a 2,7% en 1994. Les
logements raccordes au reseau d'eau potable sont passes de 72,5% en
1984, a  82,3%  en  1994; dans  le  meme  intervalle, le taux
d'6lectrification est passe de 63,4% a 86% et le taux de raccordement
au reseau d'assainissement, de 28,9% a 39,5% sachant qu'il est de
59,8% en milieu urbain.
Cette am6lioration globale est encore plus significative
dans les zones rurales et les quartiers populaires depuis 1987, grace
aux programmes nationaux specifiques et aux programmes de
developpement urbain. Ceci s'est r6alise notamment grace au
programme de rehabilitation et d'assainissement des quartiers
populaires, a celui visant la consolidation du parc immobilier, ou
encore, au moyen des interventions du Fonds de Solidarite Nationale au
profit des categories et des zones, demunies, d6nommees zones
d'ombre. En effet, dans le cadre de ce Fonds, institue en 1992, grace a
l'intervention personnelle du President de la R6publique, un Plan
National de D6veloppement des diff6rentes zones d'ombre, a l'horizon
2000, a ete mis en place necessitant des investissements globaux de
l'ordre de 450 millions de dollars, au profit de 1100 zones et touchant
pres de 176 000 familles, issues pour la plupart des couches sociales
d6sh6ritees.
II- OBJECTIF DU PROJET:
Plusieurs  objectifs  sectoriels  ont ete  fix6s  lors  du
demarrage du projet a savoir': la privatisation de I'am6nagement de
terrains et la construction de logements, I'augmentation de la part
relative du credit disponibles pour le financement de I'habitat,
I'am6lioration des systemes de gestion de l'information fonciere.
Mais l'objectif principal du projet est de soutenir la
mise en oeuvre de la nouvelle politique de I'habitat retenue
par le Gouvernement Tunisien en 1988 a travers trois
composantes principales du projet qui sont: le financement
de  I'habitat, le renforcement institutionnel et l'amelioration
de la gestion des informations foncieres.
2



Financement de l'Habitat:
1-La transformation de la Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement
en Banque de I'Habitat est l'objectif central du projet puisqu'il offre de
nouveaux instruments a la politique de financement de l'Habitat en
Tunisie permettant ainsi au secteur de jouer pleinement son r6le de
satisfaction des besoins en logements pour toutes les couches sociales
notamment celles disposant de revenus faibles ou moyens.
Pour appuyer cette transformation, une ligne de credit de 58
Millions $ a ete mise en place avec le concours de la Banque Mondiale
dont 51 Millions $ retroc6des a la Banque de l'Habitat.
2-L'am6lioration  de  la  contribution  du  secteur  prive  a
l'amenagement de terrains et a la construction de logements.
3-La rationalisation de la reglementation d'amenagement de
terrains et de construction de logements.
Renforcement institutionnel:
La nouvelle politique de I'Habitat, arret6e en juin 1988, a
implique la mise en oeuvre de nouveaux moyens pour en assurer
l'execution et le suivi tant par les services du Minist6re de
l'Equipement et de I'Habitat que par les services des entreprises
concernees.  Ii s'agit  d'ameliorer  les  capacites  respectives
d'intervention de ces services par l'am6lioration et la vulgarisation
des textes rbglementaires favorisant l'am6nagement de terrains et la
construction de logements, et la restructuration de la Societe
Nationale Immobilibre de Tunisie (SNIT) et l'Agence Fonci&re
d'Habitation (AFH). L'objectif final etant le desengagement progressif
de l'Etat en faveur d'une participation croissante du secteur prive.
Ce renforcement institutionnel comprend:
I-Renforcement  du  Ministere  de  l'Equipement et
de l'Habitat par:
*Etudes sur la rbglementation en matiere  d'urbanisme et des
normes techniques
3



*Etude de logements locatifs (publics et priv6s)
*Etude des proc6dures et de coordination intersectorielle pour
l'amenagement urbain
*Etablissement d'un systeme d'informations pour l'am4nagement
du territoire
*Elaboration du schema directeur d'amenagement du Grand Tunis
*Etude preparatoire pour la mise en place de systbmes
d'information pour la gestion du developpement urbain
*Mise en place d'un systeme pilote sur l'agglom6ration de Tunis
*Fourniture de mat6riel et de documentation
*Programme de formation du personnel du Ministbre de
I'Equipement et de l'Habitat et du Ministbre de l'Environnement
et de l'Amenagement du Territoire.(1)
2-Renforcement de la Banque de l'Habitat par
La d6finition d'une strat6gie commerciale visant A pr6ciser
les produits de la Banque de l'Habitat et a prendre pied sur le
march6 de l'6pargne primaire
*Renforcement de sa capacite d'6valuation
WMise au point d'un systeme d'information de gestion
*Realisation d'un programme de formation
*Acquisition d'6quipements informatiques
3-Renforcement de I'Agence Fonciere d'Habitation
et de la Soci&d Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie par la mise au point
et 1'ex6cution de contrats-programmes en vue de reduire les d6lais de
prestations et du ciblage des produits et comprenant principalement
-1'etablissement et la realisation de programmes de
formation du personnel
-la mise au point et I'adoption de nouvelles proc6dures
d' intervention
(1) La Direction Generale de I'Amenagement du Territoire qul relevait du Mlnistbre de
l'Equipement et de I'Habitat a 4td rattach6e au Ministere de l'Environnement et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire cr6e pendant la rdaIisation du projet.
4



Gestion des informations foncieres:
L'objectif de cette composante consiste a mettre a la
disposition des divers usagers des informations recentes et fiables
tant  en  matiere  d'informations  foncieres  qu'en  matiere  de
cartographie. Pour cela, il s'agit:
-de mobiliser la Conservation de la Propriete Fonciere
(CPF) pour assurer une mise a jour et empecher le "gel" des nouvelles
attributions de titres
-d'elaborer et d'executer un programme de renforcement
de l'immatriculation fonciere comprenant l'acquisition de materiel et
de documentation
-de moderniser, d'informatiser et de decentraliser les
services de l'Office de la Topographie et de la Cartographie en vue
d'etre plus proches des usagers et de collecter les informations
cartographiques et topographiques necessaires a la preparation des
plans cadastraux et des cartes notamment au 1/25 000 trbs utiles aux
urbanistes
d'elaborer et de realiser un contrat-programme pour
l'Office de la Topographie et de la Cartographie.
III- REALISATION DU EROJET:
Le projet a ete globalement realise dans de bonnes
conditions  et  les  r6sultats  sont  largement  satisfaisants
malgr6 l'annulation de la composante fonciere
1 -Financement de ('Habitat:
*Le passage d'une Caisse en une Banque a ete execute parfaitement.
Ainsi, en matiere d'octroi des credits pour le financement de l'habitat,
des montants importants en cr6dits immediats ont ete consentis au
cours des premieres annees du projet (90, 91, 92) grace a la
mobilisation des fonds necessaires sur cette ligne de credit. Ce
developpement a consacre la rupture avec l'activite de 1'ex-CNEL
orientee exclusivement vers le financement de ('Habitat a travers le
systbme d'Epargne-Logement.
5



*L'augmentation de l'offre de logements essentiellement de type social
grace notamment a la mobilisation de la promotion immobiliere privee.
*Le deblocage du pret a ete rapide 84% de l'enveloppe retrocedee au
cours des deux premieres annees du projet: vu que le remboursement
concerne le refinancement des prets accordes dans l'activite ordinaire
de la Banque en tenant compte des conditions prevues dans I'ACCORD DE
PROJET.
*La transformation de la CNEL a 6te une occasion propice pour mettre
en place des programmes ambitieux de formation de personnel et le
developpement des proc6dures appropriees en matiere comptable et
systeme d'information pour am6liorer la gestion de l'institution;
*Un sch6ma Directeur Informatique de la Banque a 6te mis en place et
finance sur cette ligne de credit. Les objectifs de ce schema et les
r6alisations sont decrits sur une note separee presentant une
evaluation propre de cette action.
*L'volution des ratios de performance de la Banque au cours de
l'ex6cution du projet temoigne de la solidite financiere de cette jeune
Banque grace aux resultats acquis en matibre de consolidation de ses
ressources et la diversification de ses emplois.
2- Renforcement institutionnel:
*Des seminaires d'information et de sensibilisation ont accompagne
les etudes menees par le Direction de l'urbanisme telles que I'etude de
strat6gie urbaine, 1'etude d'elaboration de la grille des equipements et
l'6tude d'elaboration de la l6gende urbaine unifi6e.
*L'Agence Urbaine du Grand Tunis a procede au renforcement de la
Banque de Donnees Urbaines du Grand Tunis (BDU), a l'heure de son
utilisation comme base du developpement d'observatoires, et a l'heure
de son ouverture vers les differents partenaires urbains, et son
positionnement en tant qu' assistant technique en la matiere et lieu de
developpement de projets pilotes regionaux.
6



Ainsi,  grace  a  l'acquisition  du  mat6riel et  des  logiciels  de
renforcement, a la formation pour les anciens et de "mise anivea"
pour les agents nouveaux, et grace a l'apport exterieiur d'ewpi:&L-k
6trangers, la BDU a acquis les outils et les moyens de sa politique
future et de son positionnement dans la place des syst6rwes
d'information g6ographiques dans la r6gion.
*Etude relative a la mise en place d'une comptabilite bas6e suir les
engagements et l'amelioration de la comptabilite analytique r ealise
par l'Agence Fonciere d'Habitation. L'objectif de cette 6tude consiste
essentiellement a mettre en place un nouveau systbme capable (le
corriger les faiblesses constatees au niveau de la comptabilit6.
*La  Direction  Gen6rale  de  l'Amenagement  du  T'erritoire
(Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Ann6nagement du Territoire) a
men6 les actions suivantes:
*La realisation d'un systeme d'irformation  g6ographique pouir
l'amenagment du territoire
*I1'laboration d'une etude g6nerale intitulee "Analyse des
bassins versants du Centre et du Sud en vue de la mise en cold. rnce
des programmes de protection contre les inondations"
*L'l6aboration de 1'6tude du Schema Directeur d'Am6nagewient dcu
Grand Tunis,
*La realisation d'un programme de formation pour les cadres de
la Direction G6nerale de l'Amenagement du Territoire.
3- Gestion des informations foncieres:
En raison de l'absence d'un consensus autour d'un nouvealU
systeme  de  cadastre, les  objectifs  relatifs  a  l'amelioration  du
systeme d'information fonciere n'ont pu etre atteints et 1'enveloppe y
afferente  (3 MD) a ete reaffectee  au financement des logenents
sociaux.
7



IV- ACTIONS DE SOUTIEN:
Dans le cadre du soutien du programme du 56 Projet de
Developpement Urbain, plusieurs actions ont et6 men6es aussi bien en
matiere   d'habitat,   d'urbanisme,   d'amenagement  du   territoire,
d'informatisation que de topographie et de cartographie.
En effet, il convient de citer notamment la r6alisation des
etudes d'habitat suivantes:
lntitule de l'etude     Date d'achevement Cout global (D)    Source de financement
Budget        Exterieur
Etude du regime de la copropriete   Dec. 1991        46.000        100%          0 %
en Tunisie et de ses reformes
legislatives            _         _
Etude de l'habitat locatif (1ere  Dec. 1991          21.000        100%          0 0
phase)
Etude de i'habitat anarchique en  Mars 1992          53.000        100%          0 %
Tunisie                                                   _
Etude de l'habitat locatif (2eme  Juin. 1993         53.371        100%          0 %
phase)                                          _
Etudes des projets de villages   Dec. 1993          1 80.000      100%           0 %
ruraux int6gr6s
Etude d'identification des sites  Juin 1994          40.000       100%           0 %
de logements sociaux dans le
Grand Tunis
Etude des logements vacants a    Mars 1996           15.000        100%          0 %
Tunis
Etude Nationale sur la r6habilita   Mai 1997        180.000       100%           0 %
tion de lHabitat vetuste et insa-
lubre
Etude de l'volution du coOt des  en cours           40.000       100%           0 %
logements
Etude des formes architecturales    en cours         73.000       100%           0 %
et des techniques de construction
Observatoire du foncier et de    en cours            90.000         55%          B.Mondiale
l'immobilier dans le Grand Tunis                                                 45%
.___________  (40.000D)
8



En outre, les efforts deployes par l'Office de la Topographie
et de la Cartographie pour resorber totalement le retard cumul6
notamment en matibre d'immatriculation facultative qui 6tait estime
en 1990 a 4000 dossiers. Ces efforts se sont mat6rialises par
I'acquisition d'equipements informatiques, photogrammetriques et
topographiques, et I'amelioration des m6thodes de production dans le
cadre d'un contrat-programme.
Par ailleurs, il convient de relever l'intense campagne de
formation et de vulgarisation menee par la Direction de l'Urbanisme, la
Direction Generale de i'Habitat avec l'appui efficace de la France dans
le cadre de la coop6ration technique soit par l'envoi de dix experts en
Tunisie pour courtes dur6es soit l'invitation en France de quarante
cadres tunisiens pour prendre connaissance de l'expertise fran,aise
tant en matiere d'habitat qu'en matiere d'urbanisme et d'amenagement
du territoire.
De meme, il y a lieu de noter la cooperation efficace entre
les services du Ministere de I'Equipement et de l'Habitat et l'Ecole
Nationale d'Administration, soutenue par l'Allemagne F6d6rale, qui a
permis d'organiser les dix seminaires   regionaux et le seminaire
national de vulgarisation du nouveau code de l'urbanisme et de
l'am6nagement du territoire et des textes d'application correspondants
dont la population cible a 6te estimee a 2000 personnes.
Enfin, la Banque de l'Habitat a ben6ficie d'une contribution
appr6ciable de l'USAID de 15 MD US qui a permis de soutenir sa
transformation en Banque de l'Habitat et l'encouragement de la
participation des promoteurs prives.
V- PERFOLMANCE:
La coop6ration avec la Banque Mondiale n'a pas failli a la
bonne tradition qui remonte au d6but des ann6es soixante. En effet,
tout s'est pass6 dans le respect mutuel et chacun s'est acquitte des
taches qui lui incombent avec beaucoup de serieux. La Banque a
approuve rapidement la reaffectation de 1'enveloppe correspondante
(3MD) au financement de l'habitat quand la composante fonciere n'a pu
etre concretisee faute de consensus des differents services concernes.
9



Par ailleurs, il y a lie.u de noter l'intervention efficace du
controle financier qui a releve des erreurs d'imputation dans la gestion
du prat par la Banque de I'Habitat, erreurs du reste corrigees
rapidement. Notre souhait est de voir cette coop6ration se poursuivre
dans tous les domaines et dans le meme esprit.
Le Ministere de I'Equipement et de I'Habitat, le Ministere de
I'Environnement et de l'Amenagement du Territoire et les diff6rentes
agences ont, dans 1'ensemble bien gere leur projet, exception faite de
1'etude de Schema Directeur d'Amenagement du Grand Tunis qui a
accuse un retard dans la realisation de la 2e tranche. Ce retard est dO
essentiellement a la non disponibilite imm6diate des donnees du
recensement general de la population et de l'habitat de 1994.
VI- PERENNITE DU PROJET:
Les progrbs accomplis dans le domaine du renforcement
institutionnel des divers intervenants influan,ant la politique de
l'Habitat constitue la base de la p6rennite du projet.
En effet, le changement du statut de la CNEL en Banque et
son  renforcement  institutionnel  ont  entrain6  des  6volutions
irr6versibles dans son activit6 et des progres durables pour cette
institution.
De meme, les progrbs accomplis dans le domaine de la
politique de I'Habitat et du financement en particulier ont ouvert la
voie a l'introduction d'autres r6formes dans le secteur notamment la
creation d'un march6 secondaire hypoth6caire.
En outre, I'encouragement du secteur bancaire a participer
au financement de P'habitat constituera une garantie supplementaire de
la  perennit6  financibre  du  projet qui  demeure  la  condition
principale de la perennite du projet.
1 0



VIIl- RVATAUTION DRIS RE           T RECOMMANDATIONS:
Mis. i part la composante foncibre, le projet a
atteint  ses  objectifs  et  les  r6sultats  sont  largement
satisfaisants  tant au  niveau  du  financement de  I'habitat
qu'au niveau does actions inscrites dans la composante
" renforcoment  institutlonnel".
En effet, la consommation des credits alloues a atteint un
taux important estim6 A 99,76 %, ce qui prouve que la realisation est
conforme A la planification. 11 y a lieu, aussi, de souligner les bons
resultats suivants:
1 -Au niveau du financement de I'habitat
*la construction par des promoteurs de 14 199 logements A faible coOt
et economiques
I'octroi de prets par la Banque de l'Habitat A hauteur de 67 Millions de
Dollars pour la construction ou l'acquisition de logements
Ia transformation de la CNEL en Banque de l'Habitat et la mise A
niveau de son personnel A travers un programme de formation continue
1'6mergence d'une nouvelle cat6gorie de promoteurs priv6s
susceptibles  d'augmenter  sensiblement  l'offre  en  matiere
d'am6nagement de terrains et de construction de logements
*la contribution a l'am6lioration de l'habitabilit6 des logements
existants par l'extension et la renovation d'environ 2200 logements par
des prbts s'elevant & 11,2 MDT.
2-Au niveau de renforcement institutionnel:
Le renforcement institutionnel a etd concretise par
-la revision du code de l'Urbanisme et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire
et l'elaboration des textes d'application cons6quents,
I 1



-la definition d'une politique du logement locatif,
-le renforcement de la Banque de Donnees urbaines de l'Agence Urbaine
du Grand Tunis,
-la mise en place d'une comptabilite basee sur les engagements et
l'amelioration  de la comptabilite analytique pour les besoins de
l'Agence Fonciere d'Habitation,
-la realisation  de quatre etudes specifiques d'am6nagement du
territoire  au  profit  du  Ministere  de  l'Environnement et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire permettant entre autre la mise en
coherence des programmes de protection contre les inondations et la
mise en place d'un systeme informatique d'aide a la d6cision dans les
domaines d'amenagement du territoire et d'environriement.
Ces  etudes  ont permis  de  mieux  appr6hender les
probl6matiques et de maltriser les differents aspects du secteur. En
outre, la fourniture d'equipements et de logiciels, et la formation du
personnel ont permis une mise a niveau appr6ciable tant au niveau des
moyens de production qu'au niveau de la qualite de la production.
Eu egard a la nouvelle orientation nationale en matiere
d'equipement informatique, la composante "informatisation des
services" constitue une r6alisation partielle de l'assistance technique.
Toutefois, il y a lieu de relever 1'6tablissement des termes de
rdf6rences de l'etude du plan directeur informatique du Ministbre de
I'Equipement  et  de  i'Habitat  et  l'acquisition  d'equipements
informatiques adequats qui ont permis l'amorce d'une reelle
informatisation de ses services centraux que regionaux.
En guise de recommandations, il y a lieu de mentionner la
necessite de poursuivre les r6formes au niveau de I'Habitat et de
l'urbanisme en accordant une attention particuliere au parc de
logements existants qui constitue un patrimoine culturel a entretenir
et A sauvegerder, ainsi qu'aux logements locatifs qui repondent aux
besoins d'une couche sociale de plus en plus large.
1 2



COOPERATION AVEC LA [BANQUE .MONM)IAILE
SITUATION AU 30/04/1997
(cn SU.S)
cr6diis     Credits    deiuindc de      Cri-dits
aMHui6      ajUs3      rcallocaiion   coiusonin4% 3u
dii        31/12/1996
19/12/1996
1/ Banquc dc lllabitat  51000000   54.G70o00Q   541.362.803    54.595.4 11.3
cat0goiic A:     33.000.000   36.670.000   317.012.803
cat6goric B:     17.000.000   12.000.000   12.000.000
catigolic C:      1.000.000    6.000.000    5.350.000
2/ Assistance technique:  !.9 0     j3kO.WQ0    3.33950Q    2.967 Z36',I
B[i                         600.000      700.000       715 421.86
MEAT                       1.140.000    1.140.000      950.127.43     rnntant estime4
M E-I                      1.023.000    1.023.000     1.023.000.00
DISTRICT                    267.000      322.000        243.763.84
A.f.It                      150.000      150.000        31.440.00
D.R.O.I.                    150.000        4.250          3.483.10
3-At Equip=mcnt et
Mat6riel:         SOU.00         -         29.7947        297 9470U0
3-B/ Composante
fonciere:       3D000.000
4 Non aiTectw:     2.500.00-
TOTAL.         58.000.000   58.000.000   58.00(.000    57.860.594.61    ItIEI,lQtIAT':
139.401.33
13



56 P.D.U APPUI INSTIIUTIONNEL AU M.E.H
PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT DE LA BDU DU GRAND TUNIS
TABLEAU RECAPUTILATIF DES PAYEMENTS DE LA lere ET2eme Tranche                     DATE 30/04/97
:::::::::::...;.........   ......- -::  ::::::;:::: ::::-::::::::::::.:::::::::..A:Y:E::......JS:::::::::::
... ... ... ... ... ... ... . I ... .     . .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...         .. ..    .   .:..   R E    S:TE    A :PA YER . .
:::   IoNs C:__ :   : :.S: :.:::::::: :.::: :: :.:::::: EM : :  :-    .  .    ::: ::::::::8;:1:;   F  ::    A:.: T:: :.  :        7::  N-dordre
.................. . d0i'siendeise  NilsIRD eD.T .ParI:AUGT.- s 1  O(e T   fendesisesd tte:T: ::-:en:D7: +t     nDT. :       -::hDT*
EQUIPEMENTS
Station UNIX + H D exlerne                  25 416 000     2 541 600   27 957 600             25 416 000  2 541 600  27 957 600               18AU
ScannerAo                                   16 800000      1 680000    18 480000              16 800 000  1680 000  18 480 000                19AU
3 Micro-ordinateurs                         19 422 840     1 951 734   21 374 574             19 422 840  1 951 734  21 374 574               21AU
Traceur a jet d'encre A0                    24 335 000     4 136 950   28 471 950             24 335 000  4 136 950  28 471 950               23AU
Modules ARC/INFO                            27 260 000     2 726 000   29 986 000             27 260 000  2 726 000  29 986 000             26+51AU
Reseaulocal                                 11190000       1 345800    12535800               11190000   91420   11281420   1254 380   20+25AU
SGBDR:ORACLE                                11 100000      1 110000    12210000               11 100000             11 100000   1 1100)00     17AU
Logiciel compression images                 2 975 000      297 500     3 272 500               2 975 000             2 975 000    297 500     48AU
Materiel bureautique                         2 388 697     406 078     2 794 775               2 388 697   406 078   2 794 775              27+28AU
Sous Total 1*re Tranche                     140 887 537    16 195 662  157 083 199            140 887 537 13 533 782 154 421 319  2 661 880
Deux onduleurs de type 3 KVA                 8 584 000     1 459 280   10 043 280              8 584 000  1 459 280  10 043 280               43AU
Materiel bureaubque                          2 102 354      357 399    2 459 753               2 102 354   357 399   2 459 753              38+39AU
Climabseur                                   1 599 945     567 980     2 167 925               1 599 945   667 980   2 167 925                40AU
3 PC Pentieum                                3 750 000      375 000    4 125 000               3 750 000   375 000   4 125 000                41AU
1 PC Portable                               2 987 600      298 760     3 286 360               2 987 600             2 987 600    298 760     35AU
impriniante matricielle                      630 000        63 000      693 000                630 000                630 000     63 000      42AU
3 imprimantes A jet d'encre A4               1 434 240      143 424    1 577 664               1 434 240             1 434 240    143 424     38AU
scanner couleur A4                           1 266 320      126 632    1 392 952               1 266 320   126 632   1 392 952                35AU
un graveur CD                               1 206 480      120 648     1 327 128              1 206 480             1 206 480    120 648      35AU
Une came d4o                                 622 500        62 250      664750                 622 50      62 250    664 750                  36AU
un compilaleur C                             700 000        70 000      770 000                 700 000               700 000     70 000      37AU
2 NFS pour windaws                           1 674 000      167 400     1 841 400                          167 400    167 400    1 674 000    44AU
ARAB VIEW                                     500 000       50 000      550 000                                                  550 000      49AU
Windows 9S Arabe I Francais                   99 000         9 900      108 900                 99 000                99 000      9 900       53AU
Imprimanle Desk Jet 340                      448 000        46 480      494 480                                                  494 480      52AU
Sous Total 2Ume Tranche                     27 604 439     3 918 153   31 522 592             24 982 439  3 115 941  28 098 380  3 424 212
TOIrAL SOUlPEMENTS                         II 68491 97*T6  --f zl8 1-6  -T1Ii03- T  _____    16S B6g9766116 64S723 102 519t        ST88092.
FORMATION
GRAPHTECH                                   13150000       2 235 000    15 385 000            13 1500C0  2 235 000  15 385 000                47AU
C.N I                                       13 000 000     1 740 000   14 740 000             13 000 OCO  I 090 000  14 090 000   650 000   14AU+46AU
ESRI-France                     6.600 FF     2 378 258      84 000     2 462 258   6.600 FF   2 378 25a    84 000    2 462 258             8+12+13AU
INRO                           1.338CHF      4813155                   4813155   1.338CHF   4213155                  4213155               1+6+7+11AU
TRACTEBEL                      330 O00FB    10 291 380                 10 291 380  330.000FB  10 291 3eo            10 291 380                24AU
Visiles de sites                             3 154 600      168 000    3 322 600               3 154 6C0   168 000   3 322 600              3+4+SAU
TOTALFORMATIO-N:                            46 787 393     4 22.7 000   51 0l4           393          :3 57100   49 764 393  : 6S0ooe:
EXPERTISE
Experlise generate S I G       40.000 FF     7 623 600                 7 623 600   40 000 FF   7 623 6CC             7 623 600                1 5AU
Expertise Observatoire I F     170.000 FF    38 800 300     640 000    39 440 300  '170 000 F   6400 OCo   540 000   7 040 000               45+50AU
Assist tech planit Itansports  47.678FF      8 580 150                 8 580 150   47,678FF   8 580150               8 580 150               16+22AU
rOrAL EXPERTISE                            : 55 004 050 6  :640000    5.0 644    :::::        22 603 750 j  640 090   23 243 750 ::
JOURNEE D'ETUDE                                  9102719      1137724    10240443 .              91027191  1137724   10240443 _______. 
D R 0 1 - MISSION D'EXPERTISE
Honoraires                                   1 000 000                  1 000 000              1 00 CCO              I 000 000                 2AU
Tratisputt                                   1 796 600                  1 796 600              i 798 6Co             1 796 600                 9AU
Htbergement                                   686 500                   686 500                 686 500               686 500
TOTAL MISSION D EXPERTISE                    3 483 100                 3 483 100               3 483 100 1           3 483 100
SOUS-TOTAL-1                                282 869 238    26 118 539  308 987 777            247 246 938 22 004 447 269 251 385  6 736 092
Actes du seminalre, brochure                 4062127        738088      4800215                                                 4 800 215
SOUSTOTAL-2                                : 4062 127 ..  .738 088:   4800215:  :   ..                                . :.::  .  4800 215
TOTAL GENERAL                               286 931 365    28 856 627  313 787 992            247 246 93  22 004    269 251 385  1 536 307
* En cotirs do Palement BIRD.



CONSTRUCTION DE LOGEMENTS ET
AMENAGEMENT DE TERRAINS DANS LE CADRE DU 5eme PDU
SOUS PROJETS                  NOMBRE         MONNAIE DT
Am 6nagement par promoteur                     0              0
Terrains a faible coOt et terrains a coOt
economique
Construction par promoteurs de logements    7723         55 879 268
a faible coOt et logements 6conomiques
Prets acquisition                          3365          38 571 070
Prets construction                         3111          28 301 435
Pr-ts extension et renovation              2212          11 168 857
TOTAL            16411         133 920 630
15



MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPEMNTENT E'f DE L'IIABITATr
Couit du Projet
Partic assistancc Technique
(en D.T)
Composante         Partic B.I.R.D.       Partic locale         TOTAL
B.H.               646.222              161.556              807.778
M.E.A.T.             950.127             237.532              1.187.659
M.E.HL              985.500              262.450             1.247.950
A.U.G.T.            243.764               33.540              277.304
A.F.H.               31.440               7.860               39.3)0
D.RO.I.                3.483                                    3. 483
TOTAL              2.860.536             702.938             3.563.474
16



BANQUE DE L'HABITAT
SITUATION DEBLOCAGE 5 EME PDU PAR ANNEE
DEBLOCAGE            90            91            92              93               94             95                96                 97              TOTAL
MONTANT EN DT  34 096 964,002 7 489 145,706  1 296 805,000    1 324 880,843     664 571,418    1 437 067,669    3 350 241,574      238 838,597      49 898 514,809
MONTANT EN SUS  38 556 748,91   8 050 311,83   1 454 225,74    1 302 614,80      666 569,19    1 570 466,61         3 472 163,11    237 733,05       55 310 833,24
SITUATION DEBLOCAGE PAR CATEGORIE (EN DINARS)
DEBLOCAGE            so            91            92              93               94              95               96                 97              TOTAL
9      GATEGORIE IA   20 620 991,600 4 987 637,000  1 240 595,000    1 160 167,000    471 659,000     857 566,000     2 624 849,000       123 777,000      32 087 241,600
GATEGORIE 1B   10472 310,400 1 396 919,000                                                                                                          11 869 229,400
GATEGORIE IC   3 365 068,000   737 774,000    56 210,000      83 833,000                      414 618,000       503 517,000        62 825,000       5 223 845,000
GATEGORIE 2                     5 409,708                    80 880,840       173 172,418     164 883,669      221 875,574                          646 222,209
TOTAL       34 458 370,000 7 127 739,708  1 296 805,000    1 324 880,840   644 831,418    1 437 067,669    3 350 241,574       186 602,000      49 826 538,209



.NILNISfERE DE L'EQL'1PEMENT ET DE L'IIABITATI
DIRECTION DE L'URBANISNIE
Tableau coTectif: (les chiffr-es sont en milliers de Dinar-s Tunisienis)
Estime                                           P\6alisd
composante   Macinaie Locale       Devises           Totale      Mannaie Locale      Devises          Totale
Tresor        P. ext6rieur                       Tresor        P. exterieur
BI:
renfcrcement         139,9            421,2           561,1           140,25            501            641,25    cconplement accorde avec
du MEH                                                                                                            I'aco:rd de MD. E et la Banque
(partie D. U)                                                                                                     Mondiale pour lefinancement
de l'tude *1e la strat6gic urbaine
(1 C2:
cartographie         125,7            498,4           624,1
* adions DU          "84,T'          "334,4"          "419,1"          "84,2"          "332,5"         "416,7"    *actions DU entierement realisees
* acticns MEAT       "41,0"          "164,0"          "205,0"          "38,0           "152,0"         "190,0"    * Total des factures gerees par Ia
gerees par la DU                                                                                                    DU



MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEINIEN T
ET DE L'AMENAGEMENT DU TERllrTOiRlE
5Sme Projet de Developpement U rbain
Situation des consommations au 30 Avril 1997
en 1000 USS
COMPOSANTE                 credits alloucs    Montant engage     Credits
1 ___________________________________                                    consom nmes
Bassins versants                500                500
SDA Grand Tunis                 468                448
SIAT et SIG                   160               77,76
Formation et Equipement             12                 12
TOTAL                       1140              1037,76        950,127
19



AU ;EN,C'E I4'oN('1E.1u: I)'IIABIg'I1'IO\''0N
5enie Projet dc D&cioppcment Urbain
Situation des consommations au 30 Avril 1997
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____                  __ _ _ _ _ _ _                       t   X
COMPOSAN1'E                 l'artie B.I.R.D.      Partie Budget         Total
lttudes pouir la mise en place d'unc
comptabilit6 d'engagement et
I'umelioration de la comptabilite      31.440               7.860             39.300
analytique
20



INDICATEUR-CLES DEXECUTION DU PROJET(RATIO DE PERFORMANCE DE LA BH)
REEL
I Marge annuelle sur les prets    >=2 points    1.40%    1.32%    2.35%    2.8%    2.54%    2.50%    1.89%    3.16%
2 Ratio dettes/fonds propres       <=15/1       12.6    15.7    13.5        7.6      8.8     9.12      9.5      8.6
3 Ratio du service de la dette      1.1a1        2.4      1.7      1.4      1.7      1.8      1.6      1.6      1.9
4 Ratio de liquidite           >=10%60pargne  1 6.69%   13.51%    6.38%   12.47%   19.59%   45.14%   59.91%   91.41%
5 Ratio d'engagement                <20%         =        =        =      6.89%     5.49%    5.47%    4.27%    5.46%



IMAGING
Report No.:          16778
Type:      ICR



