Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3064 TUN
                       (Fifth Urban Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                        BANQUE DE L'HABITAT
                        Dated June 30, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3064 TUN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  30,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  BANQUE DE
L'HABITAT (BH).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Republic of Tunisia (the  Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to  the Borrower an amount in various
currencies    equivalent    to    fifty-eight    million   dollars
($58,000,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition  that  BH agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and BH,  a  part  of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to BH
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS BH, in consideration of  the Bank's entering into the
Page  2
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                  Management and Operations of BH
     Section  2.01.  (a)  BH   declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry  out Parts A and B.2 of
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and urban
development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, BH shall: (i) carry  out  Part B.2 of the Project in
accordance with a program  satisfactory  to  the Bank; and (ii) in
order  to  assist  BH  in  carrying  out  said  Part  B.2,  employ
consultants  whose   qualifications,   experience   and  terms  of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part B.2 of the Project and to  be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) BH  undertakes  that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans will  be  made  for Sub-projects on the
basis  of  the  criteria  and  procedures  and  on  the  terms and
conditions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  BH shall exercise its  rights  in  relation to each Sub-
project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Borrower, of the Bank and of  BH; (ii) comply with its obligations
under  this  Agreement  and  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.04. BH shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07,  of the General Conditions (relating
to use of goods  and  services,  plans  and schedules, records and
reports respectively)  in  respect  of  the  Project Agreement and
Parts A and B.2 of the Project.
     Section 2.05. BH shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except  as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BH shall not take or  concur in any action which would have
the effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning  or  waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a)  BH  shall,  at  the  request  of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  the progress of
Parts A and B.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  BH shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere  with the progress of Parts A
Page  3
and B.2 of the Project, the  accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the  performance  by  BH  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.07. For purposes  of  carrying  out Part B.2 (a) of
the Project, BH  shall:  (a)  not  later  than  December 31, 1989,
furnish to  the  Bank  an  action  plan  satisfactory  to the Bank
setting forth the actions to be  undertaken by BH to establish its
internal organization; (b) not  later  than  June 30 of each year,
review with the Bank  the  progress  achieved in carrying out such
action plan; and (c)  thereafter,  based  on such review, take all
measures which may be deemed  necessary to improve its performance
during the following year.
     Section 2.08. BH shall  carry  on  its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
technical and banking practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  BH  shall  maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the  progress of Parts A and B.2 of
the Project and of each  Sub-project  and to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  its
operations and financial condition.
     (b)  BH shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise agree, BH
shall open and thereafter maintain on its books in accordance with
its normal accounting procedures and on conditions satisfactory to
the Bank a separate account to  which it shall credit each payment
of interest or other charges  on, or repayment of principal under,
a Sub-loan upon receipt thereof.  All  amounts so credited to said
separate account shall be utilized  by  BH, to the extent they are
not  yet  required  to  meet  BH's  repayment  obligations  to the
Borrower  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  exclusively to
finance the development of  land, the construction, rehabilitation
and extension of housing and the  purchase of new housing units in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BH shall not incur any debt,  if after the incurrence of such debt
the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 15 to 1.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of  BH
Page  4
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent,  the  amount   of   such  debt  has  become
               outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or
               instrument; (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
               date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
               been entered into but  only  to the extent that the
               guaranteed debt is outstanding.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means the  sum of the total unim-
               paired  paid-up  capital,   retained  earnings  and
               reserves of  BH  not  allocated  to  cover specific
               liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BH shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast, prepared
by  BH  and  satisfactory  to   the  Bank,  of  the  revenues  and
expenditures of BH shows that the estimated net revenues of BH for
each fiscal year during the term  of the debt to be incurred shall
be at least 1.1 times  the  estimated debt service requirements of
BH in such  year  on  all  debt  of  BH  including  the debt to be
incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of  BH
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   banking   operations   and   net  non-operating
                   income; and
               (B) the sum  of  all  expenses  related  to banking
                   operations, including  administration, adequate
                   maintenance,  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                   taxes,    but     excluding    provision    for
                   depreciation, other  non-cash operating charges
                   and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A) revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
Page  5
               (B) expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of  taxes,  incurred   in   the  generation  of
                   revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.05. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BH shall take all necessary  measures  satisfactory to the Bank as
shall  be  required  to  earn  an  annual  return  on  its lending
operations of not  less  than  2%  starting  with  its Fiscal Year
ending December 31, 1989.
     (b)  Before June 30 in  each  Fiscal  Year,  BH shall, on the
basis of forecasts prepared  by  BH  and satisfactory to the Bank,
review  whether  it  would  meet  the  requirement  set  forth  in
paragraph (a) in  respect  of  such  year  and  the next following
Fiscal Year and shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the results of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  BH  would not meet the
requirement set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  BH's Fiscal Years
covered by  such  review,  BH  shall  take  all necessary measures
(including, without limitation,  adjustments  of  the structure or
levels of its interest rates and other financial charges) in order
to meet such requirement.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return on  BH's lending operations shall
               be calculated by  subtracting  BH's total financial
               expenses for the fiscal  year  in question from its
               total operating revenues  for  said fiscal year and
               dividing the result by  the  average gross value of
               BH's loan assets.
         (ii)  The term "loan  assets"  means  the total principal
               amount disbursed and outstanding  of all loans made
               by BH.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to banking operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  financial  expenses"  means  all
               interest and other  charges  on indebtedness of the
               Borrower, provisions for  losses  on  loans made by
               the Borrower,  and  provision  for foreign exchange
               losses.
          (v)  The average gross value  of  BH's loan assets shall
               be calculated as one half  of  the sum of the gross
               value of such assets  at  the  beginning and at the
               end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time
               in   accordance   with   sound   and   consistently
               maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
               Bank.
     Section 3.06. BH shall  take  such steps, satisfactory to the
Bank, as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting  from  changes  in  the  rate  of  exchange  between the
Page  6
currencies (including the currency  of  the  Borrower) used in its
operations.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of BH hereunder shall terminate  on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in  accordance  with  its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify BH thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BH:
          Banque de l'Habitat
          4 rue Jean Jacques Rousseau
          1001 Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                                               14349
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  BH  may  be  taken  or  executed  by its
President Director General or such  other person or persons as the
President Director  General  shall  designate  in  writing, and BH
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
Page  7
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    BANQUE DE L'HABITAT
                    By /s/ Abdelaziz Hamzaoui
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                Sub-loans: Criteria, Procedures and
                  Principal Terms and Conditions
     Except  as  the  Bank  and  BH  shall  otherwise  agree,  the
criteria,  procedures  and  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or
referred to in  this  Schedule  shall  apply  for  the purposes of
Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement.
I.   Each Sub-loan under Part A of  the Project shall be made only
to a Beneficiary who shall have  opened an account at BH and shall
have established its creditworthiness to the satisfaction of BH in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
II.  (a)  Each Sub-loan under Part  A  (1)  and (2) of the Project
shall be made only for a Sub-project which:
          (i)  is designed such  that  the estimated selling price
               of  each  housing  unit  shall  not  exceed  30,000
               Dinars, and the estimated selling price of each lot
               divided  by  the  number  of  housing  units  to be
               constructed therein shall not exceed 7,000 Dinars;
         (ii)  in the case where  it includes housing construction
               in residential  areas,  is  designed  such that the
               density of  housing  shall  be  about  45 units per
               hectare, individual lots  shall  not  exceed 200 m2
               and the circulation  area  shall  not exceed 40% of
               the total area;
        (iii)  is located in  urban  areas with substantial demand
               established  on  the  basis  of  a  marketing study
               carried out by  the  developer  and reviewed by BH,
               and in sites  adequately  serviced  by physical and
               social infrastructure; and
         (iv)  shall have an economic  rate  of return equal to at
               least 12%, and a financial  rate of return equal to
               at least the interest  rate  applicable to the Sub-
               loan proposed  to  be  made  by  BH  for  such Sub-
               project;
all as shall be established to the satisfaction of BH on the basis
of an appraisal carried  out  by  BH in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  Sub-loans to developers  for  Sub-projects  under Part A
(1) and (2) of the Project  shall  bear interest at an annual rate
Page  8
equal to at  least  BH's  total  weighted  average  cost of funds,
determined in accordance  with  a  methodology satisfactory to the
Bank, plus two percentage points. The term of such Sub-loans shall
not  exceed  three  years.   The   amount  of  each  Sub-loan  for
construction under Part A (2) of  the Project shall not exceed 70%
of the total estimated  construction  cost  of the housing unit or
90% of such construction cost if  the selling price of the housing
unit is estimated to  be  less  than  12,000 Dinars (constant 1988
prices); and the  amount  of  each  Sub-loan  for land development
under Part A  (1)  of  the  Project  shall  not  exceed 70% of the
estimated cost of land  development  or  90%  of such cost of land
development  if  the  selling   price   of  housing  units  to  be
constructed on the land to be so developed is estimated to be less
than  12,000  Dinars  (constant  1988  prices);  all  as  shall be
established to the satisfaction of  BH  on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank.
III. (a)  Each Sub-loan under  Part  A  (3),  (4)  and  (5) of the
Project shall be made only  for a Sub-project whose estimated cost
shall not exceed 30,000 Dinars.
     (b)  The amount of each  Sub-loan  under  Part A (3), (4) and
(5) of the Project shall not  exceed  70% of the estimated cost of
the Sub-project or 90% of  such  cost  if the construction cost of
said Sub-project or,  in  the  case  of  a Sub-project for housing
acquisition under Part A (3) of the Project, the purchase price of
the housing unit so acquired  is  estimated to be less than 12,000
Dinars (constant 1988  prices).    The  term  of  each Sub-loan to
improve an existing dwelling under Part A (5) of the Project shall
not exceed ten years.   The  term of each Sub-loan for acquisition
of a new housing unit  under  Part  A  (3)  of the Project and for
housing construction under  Part  A  (4)  thereof shall not exceed
twenty years, including a  grace  period  of two years.  Sub-loans
under Part A (3), (4) and  (5)  of the Project shall bear interest
at a rate per annum to  be determined in respect of each Sub-loan,
taking into account the Beneficiary's  income and cost of the Sub-
project, provided that the average annual interest rate applicable
to all such  Sub-loans  shall  be  equal  to  at  least BH's total
weighted average cost of  funds,  determined  in accordance with a
methodology satisfactory to the  Bank, plus two percentage points.
Interest on  the  amounts  of  Sub-loans  for housing construction
shall be capitalized during the grace period specified above.
IV.  No expenditures required for a Sub-project and to be financed
under a  Sub-loan  shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless such expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than one  hundred  twenty  days  prior  to the date on
which the Bank shall have  received the information required under
Part V (b) or (c) of  this Schedule in respect of such Sub-project
or Sub-loan, as the case may be.
V.   (a)  Each Sub-loan for a  Sub-project whose cost is estimated
to exceed 500,000  Dinars  shall  be  made  only  after and to the
extent the Sub-project shall  have  been  approved by the Bank and
the Bank shall have notified BH of its approval thereof.
     (b)  When presenting a Sub-project  to the Bank for approval,
BH  shall  furnish  to  the   Bank   an  application,  in  a  form
satisfactory to the Bank, together  with: (i) a description of the
Beneficiary and  the  appraisal  of  the  Sub-project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  (ii)  the  proposed terms and conditions of
the  Sub-loan  for  the  Sub-project,  including  the  schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; and  (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Each request by BH for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan  Account  in  respect  of  a Sub-loan shall contain:
(i) a summary description of  the Beneficiary and the Sub-project,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan;  (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
Page  9
therefor; and  (iii)  such  other  information  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request.
     (d)  Applications  and   requests   made   pursuant   to  the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1992.
VI.  Sub-loans shall be made on the terms and conditions set forth
in Parts  II  and  III  of  this  Schedule  and  on  the following
additional principal terms and conditions:
     (a)  BH  shall   obtain,   by   written   contract  with  the
Beneficiary or by other  appropriate  legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of  the  Bank  and of BH, including where
applicable:  (i)  that   each   Beneficiary  shall  undertake  to:
(A) carry out and operate  the  Sub-project with due diligence and
efficiency and  in  accordance  with  sound  technical, financial,
architectural,  engineering  and   urban  planning  standards,  to
provide  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities  and other
resources required  for  the  purpose,  and  to  maintain adequate
records; (B) purchase the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of  the  Loan  at  a  reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors  such as time of delivery and
efficiency and  reliability  of  the  goods,  and  in  the case of
services, of  their  quality  and  the  competence  of the parties
rendering them; (C) use such goods and services exclusively in the
carrying out of the  Sub-project;  (D)  enable  the Bank and BH to
inspect the sites,  works  and  construction  included in the Sub-
project,  the  operation  thereof   and  any  relevant  documents;
(E) take and  maintain  with  responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and  in  such  amounts,  as shall be consistent
with sound business practices; (F) prepare and promptly furnish to
BH for forwarding to the  Bank  if  so  requested by the Bank, all
such information  as  the  Bank  or  BH  shall  reasonably request
relating to the  foregoing  and  to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the  Beneficiary and to the benefits to
be derived  from  the  Sub-project;  and  (G)  in  respect of Sub-
projects for housing acquisition under  Part A (3) of the Project,
an undertaking from the Beneficiary  that  the unit to be financed
under the Sub-loan shall  be  used  as the Beneficiary's principal
residence; and  (ii)  provisions  to  ensure  the  right  of BH to
suspend or terminate the right  of  the  Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of  the  Loan  upon  failure  by  such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its contract with BH.
