Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3064 TUN
                       (Fifth Urban Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 30, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3064 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 30,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A and B.2 of  the  Project  will be carried out by
Banque de l'Habitat (BH),  with  the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower  will make available to BH a
part of the proceeds of  the  Loan  as provided in this Agreement;
and
     (C)  the Borrower  has  contracted  from  external sources of
funds (the Cofinanciers)  loans  (the  Cofinance)  in an aggregate
amount   equivalent   to   at   least   fifteen   million  dollars
($15,000,000), to assist in financing  part  of the Project on the
Page  2
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  agreements (the Cofinancing
Agreements)   entered   into   between   the   Borrower   and  the
Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and BH;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BH" means Banque  de  l'Habitat,  a housing bank estab-
lished and operating pursuant  to  Law  No.  89-18 of February 22,
1989, and  to  Statutes  of  BH  adopted  by  BH's shareholders on
April 28, 1989;
     (b)  "MEH" means Ministere  de  l'Equipement et de l'Habitat,
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Housing;
     (c)  "AFH" means Agence Fonciere d'Habitation, the Borrower's
Land Development Agency, established and operating pursuant to Law
No. 73-21 of April 14, 1973;
     (d)  "SNIT" means Societe  Nationale  Immobiliere de Tunisie,
the Borrower's housing company, established and operating pursuant
to Law No. 57/19 of September 10, 1957;
     (e)  "Sub-project" means a specific  sub-project under Part A
of the Project to be carried  out utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-
loan;
     (f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan to be  made by BH in part out of
the proceeds of the Loan for the financing of a Sub-project;
     (g)  "Low Cost Dwelling" means  a  housing unit whose selling
price is estimated, pursuant to  the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement, not to exceed 20,000 Dinars;
     (h)  "Moderate Cost  Dwelling"  means  a  housing  unit whose
selling price is  estimated,  pursuant  to  the  provisions of the
Schedule to  the  Project  Agreement,  to  be  greater than 20,000
Dinars, but not more than 30,000 Dinars;
     (i)  "Low Cost Lot" means a  lot  of land whose selling price
per housing unit to be constructed thereon, upon completion of its
preparation, is  estimated,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement, not to exceed 3,500 Dinars;
     (j)  "Moderate Cost Lot" means  a  lot  of land whose selling
price per housing unit to  be constructed thereon, upon completion
of its preparation, is  estimated,  pursuant  to the provisions of
the Schedule to the  Project  Agreement,  to be greater than 3,500
Dinars, but not more 7,000 Dinars;
     (k)  "Beneficiary" means an individual or a developer to whom
BH has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan;
Page  3
     (l)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BH of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (m)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and BH pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary  Loan" means the loan provided
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (n)  "OTC"  means  Office   de   la   Topographie  et  de  la
Cartographie, the Borrower's Office of Topography and Cartography,
established  and  operating   pursuant   to   Law  No.  74/100  of
December 25, 1974;
     (o)  "Contrat Programme" means  a  document setting forth the
policies to be followed and the  objectives to be achieved by AFH,
SNIT and OTC and  the  undertakings  of the Borrower in connection
with the  achievement  of  such  objectives,  and  to  be executed
between MEH, AFH, SNIT and OTC, respectively;
     (p)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (q)  "Dinars" or "TD" mean the Borrower's currency;
     (r)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31; and
     (s)  "Category" means a category of  items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent  to   the   amount   of   fifty-eight  million  dollars
($58,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall  so  agree,  amounts  to  be  paid)  by  BH  on  account  of
withdrawals made by  a  Beneficiary  under  a  Sub-Loan for a Sub-
project under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of
the goods and  services  or  housing  unit  required  for the Sub-
project in respect of which  the  withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested; and (ii) expenditures made  (or if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts  B  and  C  of  the  Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1995, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
Page  4
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of  one  per  cent  per  annum  above  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out Parts B.1, B.3 and C
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with  appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering, urban
development and planning  practices,  and  provide  or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
cause BH to  perform  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of the
Project Agreement all  the  obligations  of  BH therein set forth,
shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable BH to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or  permit  to  be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Parts A and B.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall relend to  BH the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from  time  to  time  to  Categories  (1),  (2)  and (3)
required  for  the  carrying  out  of  Parts  A  and  B.2  under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and BH, under terms and  conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank including the principal terms and conditions set forth
in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such  manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
Page  5
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Parts B.1, B.3 and C of the  Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.05,  9.06  and 9.07, of the
General Conditions (relating to  use  of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records  and  reports,  respectively) in respect of
Parts A  and  B.2  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried  out by BH
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:  (a) furnish to the Bank an
action plan satisfactory  to  the  Bank  with  a timetable for the
carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project;
     (b)  not later than June 30  each  year, review with the Bank
the progress achieved in carrying out such action plan; and
     (c)  based on such  review,  take  all  measures which may be
deemed necessary to improve  its  performance  in relation to land
registration and management activities during the following year.
     Section 3.05. Under Parts B.1, B.3  and C of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) not later than  June 30 each year, review with
the Bank the progress achieved in carrying out: (i) the program to
simplify the regulatory  system  applicable  to its urban planning
activities; and (ii) AFH's,  SNIT's and OTC's Contrats Programmes;
and (b) thereafter, based on  such review, take all measures which
may be deemed necessary to  adjust  such  program or to amend such
Contrats Programmes.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
Page  6
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  introduce, not later than
December 30, 1990, or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank
shall agree, a system,  satisfactory  to  the Bank, for the proper
regulation of real estate  and  land development activities in the
Borrower's territory.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BH shall have failed  to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  BH  will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Law or Statutes referred  to  in Section 1.02 (a) of
this Agreement  shall  have  been  amended,  suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of BH to perform any  of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BH or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the Cofinance or any other loan or
                    grant made to  the  Borrower for the financing
                    of  the  Project  shall  have  been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated  in  whole or in part,
                    pursuant  to  the   terms   of  the  agreement
                    providing therefor.
               (B)  Any such loan shall  have become payable prior
                    to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
Page  7
               gations  under  such  agreement;  and  (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
     (b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement,
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BH.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by BH, and is legally  binding upon BH in accordance with
its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  BH  and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BH in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan
          7 Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINISTERE DU PLAN                 MIPLAN
                                                 1517
     For the Bank:
Page  8
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                    By /s/ Abdelaziz Hamzaoui
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans under:
     (a)  Part A (1) (a),       33,000,000     60% of amounts
          A (2) (a),                           disbursed by BH
          A (3) (a) and
          A (4) (a) of
          the Project
     (b)  Part A (1) (b),       17,000,000     40% of amounts
          A (2) (b),                           disbursed by BH
          A (3) (b), and
          A (4) (b) of
          the Project
     (c)  Part A (5) of          1,000,000     70% of amounts
          the Project                          disbursed by BH
(2)  Training and                1,000,000     100% of foreign
     consultants'                              expenditures and
     services                                  80% of local
                                               expenditures
Page  9
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Materials and
     equipment:
     (a)  under Parts B            500,000 )
          and C.2 of the                   )
          Project                          )   100% of foreign
                                           )   expenditures and
                                           )   80% of local
                                           )   expenditures for
                                           )   items procured
                                           )   locally
                                           )
     (b)  under Part C.1         3,000,000 )
          of the Project                   )
(4)  Unallocated                 2,500,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 58,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  expenditures under Category (3) (b), unless the Bank has
received the action plan referred  to  in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) increasing private  sector  participation  in land development
and  housing  construction  activities;  (ii)  mobilizing domestic
private savings  and  promoting  a  more  market  oriented housing
finance system;  (iii)  simplifying  its  regulatory framework for
land and housing  development  activities;  and (iv) strengthening
its land information management system.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Housing and Land Development
     The provision of Sub-loans by BH for Sub-projects for:
     (1)  development by developers of  (a)  Low Cost Lots and (b)
          Moderate Cost Lots;
     (2)  construction by developers of (a) Low Cost Dwellings and
          (b) Moderate Cost Dwellings;
Page  10
     (3)  acquisition by individuals of new (a) Low Cost Dwellings
          and (b) Moderate Cost Dwellings;
     (4)  construction by individuals  of  (a)  Low Cost Dwellings
          and (b) Moderate Cost Dwellings; and
     (5)  extension and rehabilitation  by  individuals of housing
          units.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Strengthening of MEH through:
     (a)  the carrying out of  a  review  of the regulatory system
applicable to urban  planning  activities  and the development and
carrying out of a program to simplify such system;
     (b)  the  carrying  out  of  studies  on  the  rental housing
sector;
     (c)  the carrying out of  a  program to improve institutional
capabilities in the  management  of  urban development, consisting
of: (i) a study  to  restructure  planning procedures; (ii) design
and introduction of  an  information  system for land development;
(iii) preparation of a  master  plan  for the metropolitan area of
Tunis; and (iv) design and  introduction  on  a pilot basis for an
urban area to be selected  by  the  Borrower in agreement with the
Bank of an information system for urban development;
     (d)  the  provision  of   computer   hardware  and  software,
materials and equipment; and
     (e)  the carrying out of a training program for MEH's staff.
2.   Strengthening of BH through:
     (a)  the  provision  of  technical   assistance  to  BH  for:
(i) setting up BH's  internal organization, including, inter alia,
the creation of a  marketing  department  and the strengthening of
its appraisal capabilities; and  (ii) introducing and managing new
savings instruments;
     (b)  the design and introduction  of a management information
system;
     (c)  the development and execution  of a training program for
BH's staff; and
     (d)  the  provision  of   computer   hardware  and  software,
materials and equipment.
3.   Strengthening of AFH  and  SNIT  through the finalization and
implementation of AFH's and SNIT's Contrats Programmes, including:
          (i)  the  development  and   carrying  out  of  training
               programs for AFH and SNIT staff;
         (ii)  the  design  and   introduction   of  a  management
               information system for each of AFH and SNIT; and
        (iii)  the provision  of  computer  hardware and software,
               materials and equipment.
Part C:   Land Information Management
1.   Land Registration:
     (a)  Carrying out of a  program  to strengthen the Borrower's
land registration and management system, and provision of computer
hardware and software, materials and equipment therefor; and
Page  11
     (b)  (i) Strengthening of OTC's  capabilities in the carrying
out of topographical  surveys  and  preparation of cadastral maps,
and provision to OTC's  regional  offices of computer hardware and
software, materials and equipment  therefor. (ii) Finalization and
implementation of OTC's Contrat Programme.
2.   Production of maps.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 1994
     through   October 1, 2005                     2,415,000
On   April 1, 2006                                 2,455,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed as percentage per
                                         annum) applicable  to the
                                         Loan   on   the   day  of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                       1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
Page  12
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $150,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of  comparison  of  price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (a)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  13
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(3) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligi-
ble expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
Page  14
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan  allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such  procedures  as  the  Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
2.   The words "the Bank  may  by  notice  to  the Borrower or the
Guarantor terminate the right of  the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon  the giving of such notice, such
amount to the Loan shall  be  cancelled."  set forth in the end of
Section  6.03  are  deleted   and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:
          "or (f) by the date specified Part V (d) of the Schedule
          to the Project  Agreement,  no  applications or requests
          permitted under said  Schedule  shall have been received
          by the Bank in respect  of  any  portion of the Loan, or
          having been so  received,  shall  have  been denied, the
          Bank, may by notice to  the Borrower terminate the right
          of the Borrower to  submit such applications or requests
          or to make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account, as the
          case may be, with respect  to  such amount or portion of
          the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or
          portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
Page  15
                            SCHEDULE 7
                  Principal Terms and Conditions
                 of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
     The following are the  principal  terms and conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and BH pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement:
(1)  The principal amount of  the  Subsidiary Loan repayable by BH
shall be the equivalent in  Dinars  (determined as of the date, or
the respective dates, of withdrawal  from  the Loan Account or the
Special Account, as the case may be) of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn on account of expenditures for Parts A and B.2 of the
Project financed under Categories  (1),  (2)  and (3) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(2)  The Subsidiary Loan shall be  repaid  by  BH over a period of
seventeen years, including a grace period of five years.
(3)  BH shall pay interest on  the  amounts of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from  time  to  time  at a rate equal at
least to the  greater  of  (a)  the  rate  applicable  to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05  of  this  Agreement  on  the date of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement plus  one  half  of one percentage point
and (b) the rate applicable on  said date to loans with a maturity
of one week  made  by  the  Borrower's  Central  Bank to financial
institutions to enable said  institutions  to meet their liquidity
requirements.
