Document of
The World Banik
Report No: 22014-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.8 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF SERGIPE
FOR A
RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
(BRAZIL RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROGRAM)
January 7, 2002
Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector ! J4aLlment Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 19, 2001)
Currency Unit  =   Real (R$)
R$1.00   =   US$0.46
US$ 1.00         R$2.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB                     -   Bank of Brazil
BN                     -   Bank of the Northeast
CA                     -   Community Association
CDD                    -   Community-Driven Development
CAS                    -   World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
FUMAC                  -   Municipal Community Scheme
FUMAC-P                -   Pilot Municipal Community Fund
GOB                    -   Federal Government of Brazil
HDI                    -   United Nations Human Development Index
IBGE                   -   Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
MC                     -   Municipal Council
MIS                    -   Management Information System
NCB                    -   National Competitive Bidding
NGO                    -   Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP/PAPP              -   Northeast Rural Development Program
PAC                    -   State Community Scheme
PPA                    -   Multi-year Govermnent Investment Plan
PRONESE                -   Northeast Program of the State of Sergipe/STU
R- NRDP                -   Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program
RPAP                   -   Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
RPRP                   -   Rural Poverty Reduction Project/Program
SEPLANTEC              -   Sergipe Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology
SOE                    -   Statement of Expenditures
STU                    -   State Technical Unit
TA                     -   Technical Assistance
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Director: Vinod Thomas
Sector Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo



Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
(Brazil Rural Poverty Reduction Program)
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ....................................................................                                                                                  I
A. Project Development Objective
1.  Project development objective  and key performance  indicators  ........                                             ...............                      2
B. Strategic Context
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goals supported  by  the project .............                                     .........................                         3
2.  Main  sector issues and  Governm ent strategy  ...............                                    ..............................                           3
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices                                            .....................                     5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ....................................................................                                                                     6
2.  Key policy  and institutional reforms supported  by the project .........                                            ................                      8
3. Benefits and target population ..............................................................                                                               8
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .............                                       .............................                          9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection  .........                                         ......................                      11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...                                                                          12
3.  Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed project design  ..........                                          ....................                     12
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership  ...........                                            .........................                       14
5.  Value added  of Bank  support in this project ...............                                    ...............................                         14
E. Summary Project Analyses
I.  Economic  .......................                              .............................................                                             15
2.  Financial .....................                             ...............................................                                               15
3.  Technical .....................                              ...............................................                                              16
4.  Institutional ..........................                             ..........................................                                           16
5.  Social ....................................................................                                                                               17
6.  Environmental assessment ..................................................................                                                              18
7.  Participatory  approach ...........................                          .........................................                                    19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability  .............................                             .......................................                                        19
2. Critical risks .                 ....................................................................                                                      20
3.  Possible  controversial aspects  . ..............................................................                                                        21
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ....................................................................                                                             21
H. Compliance with Bank Policies ...................................................................                                                                        21



Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Evaluation of the Brazilian Experience with Rural Poverty Reduction
Annex 3.       Detailed Project Description
Annex 4.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5.       Economic Analysis
Annex 6.      Financial Summary
Annex 7.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 8.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.      Documents in the Project File
Annex 10.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.     Country at a Glance



Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
(Brazil Rural Poverty Reduction Progralm)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Brazil Country Management Unit
Date: January 7, 2002                               Task Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo
Countr Director: Vinod Thomas                       Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: 74085          1 Sector: Agriculture    Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:       I [XI I Yes  I[ ] NoI
Project Financing Data                   [Xj Loan         [  Credit        i  Guarantee         [  Other [Specify)
Amount (US$m): 20.8
Proposed terms:                            [ ]  Multicurrency        [X] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 5             [ ]  Standard Variable    [ ] Fixed             [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75% on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after signing.
Service charge: 1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                  Local              Foreign           Total
State Governments (17%)                                                   4.7                  0.0             4.7
Community Associations (9%)                                               2.5                  0.0             2.5
IBRD (74%)                                                                0.0                 20.8            20.8
Total                  7.2                 20.8            28.0
Borrower: State of Sergipe
Guarantor: Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible agency(ies):
* State of Sergipe
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/$M):        2002    2003   2004    2005    2006
Annual:           2.6*     5.2    5.7      5.3      2.0
Cumulative:           2.6*    7.8   13.5    18.8    20.8
* Includes retroactive financing of up to US$2.0 million for eligible expenditures incurred after April 19, 2001 but not earlier than 12
months before loan signing.
Expected Effectiveness Date: March 31, 2002                                               Closing Date: June 30, 2006



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators:
Background:  Northeast Brazil has long contained the largest concentration of rural poor in Latin America. In a
search for sustainable solutions to this problem, the Government of Brazil and the Bank have partnered in research
and analytical work, technical assistance and a wide variety of development projects for several decades. Some of the
most promising results in the area of rural development began to be observed in the late 1980s/early 1990s, under a set
of small community-driven development (CDD) pilot components of larger projects (Northeast Rural Development
Project, NRDP). When evaluation showed that these pilots were successfully getting resources directly to organized
community associations, with greater impact, cost-effectiveness and prospects for sustainability, it was decided in
1993 to completely reformulate the overall projects, using the pilot CDD components as the template. Under the
reformulated projects (R-NRDP), the poorest communities received fmancing to implement, manage and maintain
investment subprojects and to contract technical assistance directly as needed. The Federal Government withdrew
from its earlier role as coordinator and provider of counterpart funding, decentralizing these responsibilities to the
Northeast states. The states in turn piloted a new mechanism to further decentralize decision-making and engage local
governments, by creating independent representative project Municipal Councils for purposes of project resource
allocation. As the R-NRDPs closed, they were replaced by a set of Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs, 1995-
present), for which the state governments borrowed the loans directly. Following the strategy of continuous piloting,
testing and expansion, the RPAPs mainstreamed the Municipal Councils and introduced a new variant which assigned
not only resource allocation decisions but also funds management to selected high-performing Councils.
To date, the combined impact of these two sets of projects (R-NRDPs and RPAPs) has been to successfully finance
and implement over 50,000 infrastructure, productive and social investments, reaching some 7.5 million of the poorest
rural people (out of a rural population of 16.5 million) with at least one subproject, in over 30,000 separate
communities in the rural Northeast. At least as important, they have succeeded in decentralizing decision-making
over project resources to State and local levels, and beginning to increase the role and influence of rural communities
in local planning and development. As the RPAPs draw to a close, the Federal and Northeast State governments have
decided to consolidate and further scale up the CDD concept through a new set of operations that together will
comprise the Brazil Rural Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP). Besides improving the well-being of a much larger
number of rural communities through better access to essential infrastructure and services, the main contribution of
the RPRP will be to test strategies to extend the reach of the Municipal Councils, by progressively involving them in
proactively seeking funding and participating in priority-setting and decision-making on resource allocation over a
much wider range of Federal, State and local programs. Currently, a large share of the resources available under those
programs either do not reach the rural poor, are directed to activities that are not among the highest priorities of the
beneficiaries, or are not delivered in a cost-effective manner. If the RPRP is successful, it will help to realign and
better integrate these programs, greatly leveraging the overall impact of public resources directed towards rural
poverty reduction. The new program will further help to graduate communities from matching grants to financial
institutions, and will expand ongoing, successful piloting of the use of information technology to increase
transparency and to connect communities directly with markets.
As part of its efforts to reduce poverty, the Federal Government has agreed to support the RPRP in the Northeast
region and is also considering extending the approach to other states with a high incidence of rural poverty.
Specifically, the Federal Government is agreeing on aggregate borrowing amounts which it will guarantee for each
state, with half to be borrowed in an initial project and the balance for a second stage operation after successful
completion of the first. The proposed loan to Sergipe would support that state's initial RPRP project. The
Government has recently requested support for similar projects in the states of Bahia, Ceara, Pernambuco and Piaui
(Board approval date of June 26, 2001); Alagoas, Rio Grande do Norte (currently under negotiations); Minas Gerais
(under appraisal); and Tocantins (under preparation). It expects to do the same over the next year for initial RPRP
projects in other states (in the Northeast and in other regions where it decides to extend the program), and then
subsequently, for the second phase of the program in states which have demonstrated successful performance.
* Project development objectives: The project aims to assist the State of Sergipe to reduce currently high
levels of rural poverty by: (a) improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor through better access to
basic social and economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using proven
community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (b) increasing the social capital of rural communities to
organize collectively to meet own needs; (c) enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and



Page 3
transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of community associations and
Municipal Councils; and (d) fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and projects at
the local level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, priority-setting and
decision-making over resource allocation.
Key performance indicators:
•  number of families benefited from subproject investments;
* incremental employment generated from subproject investments;
* increase in incomes of project beneficiaries;
* increase in social welfare of rural communities;
* increase in social capital index (CPI) of project Municipal Councils;
* number of Municipal Councils participating in priority-setting and decision-making on resource
allocation of project and non-project funded development activities;
*  increase in total project and non-project fnancing allocated through Municipal Council mechanism; and
* number of poor rural conmmunities graduated to financial institutions for support of productive activities.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 22116-BR                Date of latest CAS Progress Report discussion: May 24, 2001
The project is an essential component of the current Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil, which
identifies the reduction of poverty and inequality as the central objective of the Bank's assistance efforts. The
Northeast region, which includes the State of Sergipe where the proposed project will be implemented, is home to the
largest concentration of rural poor in the country. To achieve strong, sustainable poverty reduction impacts, the CAS
recommends well targeted anti-poverty programs to enhance the human and physical capital of the poor, both to
improve social conditions and allow beneficiaries to make better use of economic opportunities, coupled with social
safety nets to protect from economic shocks and natural disasters. It emphasizes decentralized approaches, shifting
expenditure and implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to the States, municipalities and local
communities where possible and appropriate. Finally, the CAS recommends better integration of policies and
programs intended to support poverty reduction.
In line with these CAS goals, the proposed project directly promotes sustainable poverty reduction in rural Sergipe.
By providing basic community infrastructure, services and support for productive rural investments, the project will
generate new employment opportunities and improve the incomes and social welfare of poor rural families. It will
also reduce vulnerability to shocks, particularly in the form of droughts which are endemic in the rural Northeast.
Through careful targeting and disbursement of funds directly to community associations using proven community-
based decision making and implementation arrangements, the project will build social capital at the local level in the
poorest areas of the state, improve cost-effectiveness and enhance sustainability of assets over which communities feel
a strong sense of ownership and commitment. Finally, by developing representative project Municipal Councils and
forging links between these entities and other partners (Federal programs, state and local governments, civil society,
financing institutions and the private sector), the project should help to leverage resources for local development and
improve the consistency and overall impact of rural poverty reduction efforts in Sergipe.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Ruralpoverty and inequality: Brazil is characterized by extreme levels of income disparity, with poverty rates much
higher than in other countries with a similar level of per-capita GNP. The Northeast region, including nine states and
part of a tenth, accounts for only 20% of Brazil's land area and about 30% of its 165.9 million population, but is home
to about 22.0 million or 60% of the country's poor and around 11.5 million or 70% of its rural poor. Annual per
capita incomes in the Northeast (R$2, 123) are about 42% of the national average (R$4,945); rural incomes of potential
project beneficiaries are only 10% of this average. Approximately 70% of rural household income in the Northeast is
derived from farming and agricultural wage labor.



Page 4
The State of Sergipe has a population of 1.7 million of which about 30% or 513,000 persons are rural. About one-
third of all rural households have an income of less than one minimum salary per month, rising to two-thirds of rural
households with income of less than two minimum salaries per month, or between US$1.50 and US$2.00/day/person.
About 72% of rural Sergipe households lack piped water supply, 42% are without sanitation services, and slightly
more than 14% of rural households remain without electricity (public rural electrification programs have been active
in this state), compared, respectively, with 6%, 3% and 0.8% for urban Sergipe, and 7%, 3% and 0.9% for urban
Brazil as a whole.
The Bank has invested in a variety of studies and analytical work in recent years, to identify the dimensions,
characteristics and causes of rural poverty in Brazil, and to develop strategic options for policy and programmatic
action. Most notable have been: (a) Brazil Poverty Assessment (Report No. 14323, 1995); (b) State Economic
Memoranda (similar to CEMs, SEMs have been completed or are in progress for Ceara, Pernambuco, Bahia and other
Northeast states); (c) Rural Poverty Reduction in Brazil: Towards an Integrated Strategy (Report No. 21790, 2001);
and (d) various surveys, evaluations and impact assessments of the R-NRDP and RPAP projects including
Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government Performance:
Evidence from Northeast Brazil (July 2000).
In general terms, rural poverty in the Northeast is fostered by a relatively weak natural resource base, vulnerability to
frequent droughts, low labor productivity, high levels of illiteracy and poor quality and coverage of education,
relatively large family size, poor access to basic infrastructure and services, skewed land distribution, and poorly
functioning rural financial markets. The data also reveal considerable heterogeneity in natural resource endowments,
economic activity and welfare indicators across the region. This suggests the importance of a multi-pronged set of exit
strategies to meet the specific needs of diverse groups, including:
(a)    intensification of the economically viable small-farm sector (raising labor productivity and incomes by
improving the supply of public goods, technology transfer, rural land and financial market reform, and
building of social capital);
(b)    revitalizing commercial agriculture to absorb wage labor and foster growth of downstream processing
activity;
(c)    stimulating growth of the rural non-farm sector, especially processing and services (improvements in
education, roads, electricity and communications to lower transaction costs and improve functioning of
markets);
(d)    accepting a certain level of migration as inevitable and rational (especially among the young, for whom
investment in education is essential ); and
(e)    provision of adequate safety nets for those rural poor who will not benefit from intensification of small-
holder farming, expansion of commercial agriculture and non-farm activities, or migration (typically the rural
elderly and smallholders in areas vulnerable to drought and other natural resource problems).
The proposed RPRP project in Sergipe (and the earlier R-NRDP and RPAP projects) constitutes a critical
instrument for the State to pursue several of these strategies; it is particularly relevant for (a), but can also contribute
to (b), (c) and (e). The Federal Government has recently launched the Projeto Alvorada 2000-2002 as the framework
for its poverty reduction efforts in those municipalities nationwide with the lowest HDI (Human Development Index)
levels. Implementation is to be decentralized, stressing community self help and local empowerment. Government
views the Bank-supported RPAP and new round of RPRP projects in Sergipe and other states as having piloted
important delivery mechanisms which it would like to see scaled up and generalized, and considers the projects
integral components of its Alvorada strategy. Other Bank-supported efforts are also relevant to the State's
development strategy, including: the Program for the Development of Water Resources in Semi-arid Regions
(PROAGUA), the National Agricultural Research Project and the Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project I.
Dc-centralization:  Since the Brazilian Federal Constitution of 1988, the trend has been towards increasing
decentraiization of fiscal resources, public investment, priority-setting and program implementation, from the Federal
Govermment to the state, municipal and local levels.  The proposed project supports this trend by concentrating
coordination responsibility at the state government level, and strengthening local capacity to participate effectively in
priority setting, decision-making over resource allocations and program/project implementation and maintenance.
The volume of resources currently available in Brazil for rural poverty reduction is considerable, and yet the neediest
communities are often unaware that they exist or how to access them, and many investments do not respond well to
the priorities of intended beneficiaries and/or are not delivered in as cost-effective a manner as possible. By



Page 5
expanding and strengthening the Municipal Councils, and forging links between them and other potential partners
(Federal programs, state and local govermments, civil society, financial institutions and the private sector), the project
should help to leverage resources and improve the consistency and overall impact of public resources directed towards
rural poverty reduction in Sergipe.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues: The major sector issues addressed by this project are ruralpoverty and decentralization. By improving
access of poor farm communities in Sergipe to basic economic and social infrastructure, and productive opportunities,
the project will raise incomes and well-being. The use of participatory processes that have been proven to increase the
voice of rural communities in priority-setting and decision-making over resource allocation will also help to build
social capital, strengthen local governance, and improve the effectiveness and sustainability of development
investments.
The project will build on the success of community-driven development (CDD) mechanisms that were piloted, tested
and expanded under the R-NRDP and RPAP. The cumulative impact of these earlier projects attests to the robustness
of this strategy: (a) at a total cost of about US$900 million, some 50,000 infrastructure, productive and social
investments have reached about 7.5 million poor people with at least one subproject, in over 30,000 separate
communities in the rural Northeast; (b) program investments have generated incremental annual income and savings
of over US$200 million; (c) sustainability of investments is high, with about 90% of a sample of over 8,000
subprojects funded in 1995 and 1997-8 still fully operational; (d) cost efficiency has also been high, with recorded
cost savings of 40-50% over similar publicly provided infrastructure and services; and (e) of the almost 1,000
Municipal Councils formed to date, some 30% have progressed beyond simple subproject decision-making to engage
in municipal planning and allocation of non-project resources, and about 25% of community associations have also
used their social capital and assets acquired under the projects to access non-project financing. Although intangible
and difficult to quantify, there is an observed, marked difference in self-respect and confidence in many participating
communities.
Strategic choices: The main strategic choices made in project design include the following:
* Stimulating improvements in both social welfare and local economic activity.  A key constraint to rural
development in Sergipe has been the lack of opportunity to intensify smallholder agriculture, and stimulate growth
of commercial agriculture, downstream processing and other non-farm activities. This project will diversify
income and employment opportunities in a range of farm and non-farm endeavors through support for productive
activities, technical assistance and investment in both social and economic infrastructure/services, identified by
communities as being most relevant for their well-being.
*  Community-based approach: The community-based approach, when compared to similar investments executed by
traditional public sector entities, has proven to be cost-effective, more responsive to local priorities and to offer
better prospects for sustainability (Annex 2).
* Integration of programs andpolicies at the local level. Adopting a decentralized approach that focuses decision-
making at the local level has helped to overcome the complexity problems of earlier failed attempts at integrated
rural development. A growing number of Municipal Councils are proactively seeking funding and participating in
decision-making over non-project sources of finance. Under the new project, Councils will be further encouraged
through training and technical assistance to expand their input into broader local planning, with a view to
achieving better integration of policies and programs and improving the impact of public resources available for
poverty reduction.
*  Targeting of resources. One of the most important benefits of the project will come from community experience
gained through managing an investment subproject and participating in decision-making in a Municipal Council.
For that reason, a minimum level of finding has been allocated to each poor rural municipality in the State, with
higher levels targeted to the poorest areas with the greatest needs (lowest level of Human Development Index).
* Rigorous monitoring and evaluation. The predecessor R-NRDP and RPAP projects made substantial provision for
piloting, testing, and M&E, and this was extremely helpful for continuous refinement of processes. Under the new
project, an enhanced MIS and an evaluation framework will be implemented to measure impact through
independently executed, repeater surveys of beneficiaries and control group panels, with a view to maximizing
poverty alleviation impact.



Page 6
* Graduation of communities - exit strategy. Most of the investments requested by communities in the past (around
77%) comprised infrastructure subprojects. However, since the rural poor are generally off the radar screen of any
formal credit institution in the rural Northeast, particularly as individuals, project matching grants for productive
investments and technical assistance can be catalytic by encouraging the formation of groups, providing some
experience in the management of financial assets and income-earning activities, and thus making them more
attractive to financial institutions. Therefore, communities that presently lack access to formal credit can qualify
for one grant-based productive subproject (defined as those generating product sold in the market), after which
they will be graduated from such support, (under the R-NRDP and RPAP there were no limits, although as a
practical matter the MCs have tended to limit communities to an average of two subprojects of any kind, in order
to ration scarce resources). At the same time, a major effort will be made to link communities graduating from
productive projects, to possible sources of formal credit. In particular, the Bank of the Northeast (BN) ha,
increasingly been seeking organized communities to which it can provide group credit. BN and the RPAPs have
already partnered in some places, albeit in an ad hoc manner - but there is now enough positive experience that
the state of Sergipe and BN are interested in taking the cooperation to another level. Therefore, agreements have
been reached on information sharing and coordination, which will be detailed in the project Operational Manual:
(a) BN will have access to relevant information from the project MIS about group credit candidates, which it will
pass on to its units in charge of credit lines and government programs in which it participates; (b) BN's local
development agents will be invited to attend Municipal Council meetings; and (c) BN will provide Sergipe with
feedback on project-graduated groups to which it has extended credit, for use in project monitoring and evaluation,
BN has also undertaken to expand its testing of the Bank-financed CrediAmigo micro-credit program into rural
areas.
* With regard to community infrastructure and social subprojects, graduation considerations are different. Most of
these subprojects are in the realm of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments), and
the definition of the minimum acceptable level of such services necessarily varies over time. Sergipe is currently
using the United Nations Human Development Index (HDI) as a key measure of economic and social development
and many rural communities are still far from meeting minimum standards. Grant-based support is provided
because of the poverty targeting under the project. The R-NRDPs and RPAPs demonstrated that the CDD
approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work, in a cost effective manner
and on a large scale, while also having important impacts in terms of social capital formation and improved local
governance.  Under the proposed project in Sergipe (both the initial and second phases), the state intends to
expand the geographic coverage of the CDD approach, and to encourage project Municipal Councils to proactively
seek new sources of funding, and to engage in priority-setting and decision-making over a much wider range of
activities, with a view to improving the effectiveness of local governments and the integration and overall impact
of public resources directed towards rural poverty reduction.
* Information Technology. The new program will expand ongoing, successful piloting of the use of information
technology to increase transparency by making available, in real time, information about the program itself, as
well as using the internet to connect communities directly to markets, both in Brazil and internationally.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The total project cost is $28.0 million, of which the Bank will finance US$20.8 million. Component A (Community
Subprojects)  provides matching grants to rural community associations to finance approximately 1,000
infrastructure, productive and social subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by these groups as priority
investments that will improve community well-being. After approval of subprojects by the State Technical Unit or
project Municipal Councils, project funds are disbursed directly to the community associations, which manage
subproject implementation, operation and maintenance (Annex 3). This component includes three subprograms -
PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P.
*  State Community Schemes (PAC).  Under the PAC subprogram, rural communities submit their investment
proposals directly to the State Technical Unit (STU), which screens and approves them and releases funds to the
beneficiary associations. Whereas this was the predominant arrangement under the earlier R-NRDP projects, it



Page 7
has receded in importance as decentralization from the State to local levels has progressed. At the start of the
RPAP projects, it was expected that about one-third of community proposals would be processed under the PAC,
but the actual share decreased steadily during implementation -- about 19.6% in Sergipe -- in favor of the other
two modalities described below. Under the proposed new RPRP project for Sergipe, PAC will be retained as an
option to which communities may occasionally resort in cases where Municipal Councils are not functioning
properly, but it is expected to account for no more than 5% (US$1.25 million) of total community subproject
costs.
*  Municipal Community Schemes (FUA  C). Under this subprogram, decision-making on investment proposals is
delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, composed of community members and representatives of
civil society and municipal authorities. At least 80 percent of Council voting members are potential project
beneficiaries and civil society representatives. The Municipal Councils discuss, seek to build consensus on
priorities and approve community proposals, in the context of an indicative annual budget amount determined by
the state. After the Councils' recommendations are reviewed by the STU for consistency with guidelines in the
project Operational Manual, funds are disbursed directly to the community associations. This became the
dominant subprogram under the RPAP and will remain so under the RPRP, accounting for about 80% (US$20.0
million) of total community subproject costs.
*  Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). The FUMAC-P is a more decentralized variant of FUMAC and
was piloted under the RPAP with high-performing Municipal Councils. The STU establishes an annual budget
envelope, according to a distribution formula based on clear and measurable criteria (rural population, poverty
levels and previous year's performance). Based on this budget, Municipal Councils submit an Annual Operating
Plan (Plano Operativo Anual) for STU review. Upon approval, funds are transferred to the Council, which is
then responsible for managing their distribution to community associations and assisting them with
implementation of subprojects. It is expected that under the new RPRP project, 15% of total component costs
(US$3.75 million) would be used under the FUMAC-P subprogram.
Component B (Institutional development) (US$1.5 million, 5.4% of total project cost) w ill finance technical
assistance and training to increase capacity of implementing entities including MCs, community associations and the
STU. It also includes funds for technical assistance to support Sergipe in addressing state modernization and reform
issues relevant to poverty reduction, following on a similar successful activity under the RPAP, and as an integral part
of the broader state-level policy dialogue between the Bank and the state. This component will also support the
expansion of ongoing, successful piloting of information technology to increase transparency and to connect
communities and MCs to markets.  Component C (Project administration) will finance incremental costs
(excluding salaries) of project administration and coordination including field supervision, monitoring and impact
evaluation (US$1.5 million, 5.4% of project cost). The State Government of Sergipe will provide counterpart funding
of US$4.7 million (17%), community associations will provide US$2.5 million (9%), in cash or in kind, and the Bank
loan will finance the remaining 74% of costs.



Page 8
Distribution of Project Costs
Component                    Category                 Cost Incl.             % of
Contingencies (US$M)        Total
A. Community subprojects                                          25.00                89.2
(i) PAC                         Physical (Civil Works,              1.25                4.5
(ii) FUMAC                      Goods and Materials)              20.00                71.4
(iii) FUMAC-P                                                      3.75                13.3
B. Institutional Development    Institution Building                1.50                5.4
C. Administration, Supervision,   Project Management                1.50                5.4
Monitoring and Evaluation
TOTAL                                                             28.00               100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports a CDD approach to rural poverty reduction, and fosters decentralization through the promotion of
strong local participation in decision-making and resource allocation. As discussed in section B.2, the existing policy
and institutional framework in Brazil is quite supportive of these objectives and is not expected to inhibit project
viability. Rather, the need at this stage is to scale up implementation on the ground of successful approaches tested
under the R-NRDP and RPAP projects, both expanding geographic coverage and extending the reach and potential
impact of Municipal Councils on rural poverty reduction.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
-  Some 52,000 rural families in Sergipe (or about 230,000 people benefiting from at least one subproject) will
realize improvements in their quality of life and/or incomes, through provision of better access to water,
electricity, and other basic economic and social infrastructure and services, and support for productive activities.
Specific impacts may include enhanced productivity, increased family income, job creation, income
diversification, improved social indicators and reduced vulnerability to drought.
- Women will benefit especially from water supply, electricity and social investments, which amongst other
impacts, improve family health, generate time savings and allows them to participate in productive activities.
Support for productive subprojects also enables rural women to seek paying jobs and contribute to increased
family cash incomes.
*  Social capital will be created and governance improved at the rural community and municipality levels.
* The volume of non-project finance available for rural poverty reduction, and its effectiveness, should increase as
Municipal Councils become more proactive in seeking funding for local development needs and extend their
involvement in priority-setting and decision-making over resource allocation of other Federal, state and local
programs.
Target population:
* The proposed project is targeted to the poorest communities in rural Sergipe. The effectiveness of poverty
targeting mechanisms under the RPAP to date is demonstrated by a series of independent physical performance
and impact evaluation studies, and a recent rural poverty report for Brazil (April 2001) which show remarkably
similar results. About 84% of the program's targeted rural poor reside in remote, low density areas with little or no
permanent structures or infrastructure, and derive their main income from farming and agricultural labor. A
significant, additional cohort lives in rural areas directly adjacent to the urban periphery of municipal centers,
where headcount poverty measures are lowest. The Sergipe project area includes 71 municipalities - i.e. all
municipalities except for four located in metropolitan Aracaju. Resources will be concentrated in the poorest 35
municipalities, i.e., with the lowest relative HDI ranking (Annex 3). They will have a total indicative budget of
R$34.12 million (average R$244,000 per municipality per year); the remaining 36 municipalities will receive a
total indicative budget of R$18.38 million (averaging R$128,000 per municipality per year).



Page 9
* It is estimated that a total beneficiary population of 52,000 families (about 42% of Sergipe's total rural population)
will be reached with at least one subproject under this project. They are primarily small-holders, tenants,
sharecroppers, and landless laborers, who will identify, prepare, implement and maintain approximately 1,000
community infrastructure, productive and social investments fmnanced under the project. They will also build
social capital, gain the experience to pursue other sources of financing and pursue self-help solutions to local
problems, and will participate increasingly in decision-making over a broader range of local development
programs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years
Executing Entities:
Communitj, Associations (CAs) are groups of rural citizens with a common interest who organize into legally-
constituted civil associations. They identify, prepare, implement, supervise, operate and maintain their subprojects,
assisted both by technical specialists whom they contract directly and by technical assistance and training made
available by Municipal Councils and the State Technical Unit. Once subprojects are approved for financing, CAs can
access a share of the costs for design and implementation assistance.
Municipal Councils (MCs) include representatives of beneficiaries and civil society (80% of the membership), as
well as local government (20% of membership). The key organization for targeting of benefits and allocating project
resources, MCs also provide a critical link to local govermment and have the potential to engage in other non-project
activities. The MCs play a fundamental role in mobilizing communities and promoting their participation in local
decision making. They receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the CAs during regularly scheduled
and widely publicized meetings that the public is encouraged to attend, and then submit investment plans to the State
Technical Unit.
-ie State Technical Unit  The Northeast Program of the State of Sergipe (PRONESE), the State Technical Unit
(STU) for the earlier RPAP, will continue to serve that function under the new RPRP project. It will also increasingly
delegate supervision of community associations and subprojects to the MCs and concentrate instead on oversight of
the MCs themselves, as well as general project coordination and promotion. The latter duties include continuous
execution of information campaigns, project reporting, impact evaluation, MIS updating, and design and provision of
tailored training modules for MCs and CAs on key project issues.
Subproject Cycle:
* Comnmunity Associations determine their local investment priorities and prepare subproject proposals for
investment financing;
* Subproject proposals fom community associations are submitted to respective project Municipal Councils where
proposals are prioritized and approved, based on indicative resource envelopes (FUMAC) or actual budget
allocations (FUMAC-P). This step does not occur for PAC, where community associations submit subproject
proposals directly to the STU for review.
* The STU technically evaluates approved subprojects and confirms compliance with subproject guidelines before
releasing funds.
* Subproject agreements (convYnios) are signed between the STU and Community Associations (in the case of PAC
and FUMAC), or between the STU and Municipal Councils (in the case of FUMAC-P). These agreements spell
out the terms and conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved
subprojects.
* Resources for subproject implementation are then transferred directly from the project to the association's
(PAC/FUMAC) or council's (FUMAC-P) bank account, respectively;
* Community Associations are responsible for contracting goods, works and technical assistance for subproject
execution. Community Associations also bear responsibility for operation and maintenance of all investments,
and may request technical assistance to develop operation and maintenance programs and techniques.



Page 10
Project Oversight: The State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC) is responsible for
project oversight. SEPLANTEC delegates day-to-day project execution to PRONESE, the State Technical Unit.
Project Coordination: PRONESE performs the STU function, coordinating overall project activities, with t}e
following specific duties: (a) review community subproject proposals for compliance with project guidelines ani
eligibility criteria in the project Operational Manual; (b) assess the degree of community participation in identifyin!,
preparing and executing subprojects and quality of technical assistance; (c) supervise the MCs to ensure they are
adequately managing quality of subproject implementation and providing sufficient training support to communities;
(d) implement introductory training and technical assistance programs for all MCs and CAs with approved subprojects
(including training on subproject implementation, contracting, O&M and financial management); (e) monitor and
apply performance incentives to reward efficiency, transparency and inclusiveness of community associations an,l
municipal councils, and also to penalize poor performance/misappropriation (e.g., legal action for funds
misallocation); (f) monitor performnance through the Management Information System (MIS) and periodically report
progress; (g) prepare annual implementation and physical performance reviews; and (h) submit project POAs to the
Bank for approval. For the most common types of subprojects, standardized designs and cost indicators would be
made available by the STU to ensure reasonable quality and costing for subproject implementation. Departures froni
these standard designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject proposal, as would proposed investments
which fall outside the range of standardized costs. Finally, the STU will conduct statewide information campaigns to
continuously disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities
thereby increasing awareness, transparency and participation in the program. The preparation of an action plan fo,
the statewide information campaign, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project operational procedures: The project would be implemented according to detailed procedures defined in its
Operational Manual. This Manual is based on that used in the preceding RPAP, but has been revised and updated tC
reflect lessons learned during implementation. A user-friendly synthesis of this document will be made available tc
Municipal councils and community associations. The adoption by the State of this Operational Manual, in a forr
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of subproject
information from the project Management Information System (MIS) operated and maintained by the STU. The MIS
used under RPAP will continue to be improved under the new project. The database is currently organized in three
general levels: (a) a subproject information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for
each subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are generated;
and (c) a project management module, from which all project reports are generated. Under the new project, these
three modules will be integrated to allow improved monitoring of the entire subproject cycle. The database will also
be expanded to include community profiles, which will also be used to evaluate project impact. The MIS will also
monitor the increase in share of the rural poor population that is covered with basic services (e.g., water, electricity,
road access, social services), and the share of the rural poor that have received grant financing for productive
subprojects and subsequently graduated to commercial credit. The STU will continue to be responsible for
maintaining and regularly updating the MIS, including key Project information (as agreed with the Bank). Through
periodic processing of the database information, combined with field visits and inputs from project supervision
reports, project contracted studies and audits, the STU would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify
implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. The Bank's Recife Office would also monitor project performance indicators through the online
MIS, and with inputs from the State, review monthly disbursement summaries and supervise subproject
implementation progress on a sample basis in the field. The establishment and operation of a revised MIS, acceptable
to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Finally, the project would implement evaluation studies to assess the impact of the subproject and provide feedback to
improve project operations. These studies would include: (i) annual physical performance reviews to assess the
quality and sustainability of common types of financed subprojects, including reviews of community-based
procurement; (ii) an evaluation/implementation review, carried out at mid-term, to include beneficiary consultations to
evaluate project performance and impact as perceived by its beneficiaries; and (iii) a rigorous and comprehensive
impact evaluation.  The impact evaluation will use repeated surveys of project beneficiaries, non-beneficiary
households, and beneficiaries of similar projects with centralized delivery mechanisms to assess (a) poverty targeting
of beneficiaries relative to the income distribution of the population at large; (b) household welfare; (c) social capital



Page I 1
formation at the community level; (d) improved governance at the municipal level; (e) cost-effectiveness of
infrastructure investments compared with traditional delivery mechanisms, and (f) cost-benefit of productive
investments. In addition, community leaders and municipal leaders will be surveyed for the analysis of social capital
and governance impacts. Presentation of Terms of Reference for the project baseline study and for the overall
evaluation framework, both acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The first baseline field
survey will be conducted within six months of project effectiveness. A resurvey, to be contracted at the same time as
the baseline study, will be conducted two years later, followed by further resurveys after four and six years, depending
on interim results.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The financial management systems of PRONESE were
reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialist during project preparation for compliance with OP/BP 10.02
and the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Based on this review, the project
was certified as an "A", indicating that the project satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements. The
project has in place a financial management system that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project, as required by the Bank. The RPAP project has been disbursing via
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), but has the capacity to use the PMR disbursement system if the STU chooses to
change to this formn of disbursement in the future. In this event, only minor adaptations in reporting formats would be
required. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the project
accounts for the period January 1 to December 31 of the year will be carried out by an Independent Auditor, which is
acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the
year for which the project accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will include the issuance of a management letter
on internal controls six months after effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
a. Reversion to more traditional, centralized approach to implementation using line agencies. Experience with
integrated rural development projects in Northeast Brazil during the 1970s and 1980s conclusively demonstrated
that more centralized approaches to planning and implementation of infrastructure and service delivery through
public institutions are not effective in dispersed rural areas (high overhead costs, coordination difficulties,
subprojects that did not accurately respond to community needs, poor sustainability of investments). Instead, the
proposed project builds on a successful CDD model, broadly recognized for its effectiveness in delivering rural
infrastructure and services (cost savings of 30-50% vis-a-vis comparable works executed by public agencies), its
transparency in resource allocation and strong performance in building social capital of rural communities.
b. Channeling resources directly to municipal governments.   Decentralization of finance and program
responsibilities to municipal governments, without also building capacity at the community level to interact
effectively with these governments, carries the risk of merely repeating difficulties associated with centralized
decision-making (albeit at a lower level). The project Municipal Councils are making a major contribution to
improving transparency and participation in local development planning. The proposed project will consolidate
the Municipal Council experience, expanding both their geographic coverage and involvement in decision-
making over a broader range of poverty reduction programs, thereby helping indirectly to improve the quality and
effectiveness of local government.
c. Elimination of the PAC sub-component. Given the encouraging results of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P sub-
components under the R-NRDP and RPAP, consideration was given to eliminating the PAC option entirely from
the proposed project. However, Municipal Councils are not yet functioning in all areas, and for various reasons,
including lack of local political commitment to participation, a Municipal Council may be unable to deliver
expected results.  In the interests of retaining some arrangement to serve rural communities caught in such a
situation, it was decided to retain the PAC under the RPRP projects, but to limit its use to no more than 5% of
total subproject costs.
d. Onlending to the states through a program loan to the Federal Government. Since initial and follow-up RPRP
projects are likely throughout the Northeast region, as well as in some states with a high incidence of rural
poverty elsewhere in Brazil (Section A. 1), consideration was given to the alternative of a single large Bank loan
to the Federal government, to be on-lent to the states. However, the very positive benefits in terms of



Page 12
demonstrated commitment and ownership when the states are in the project driver's seat (reflected, inter alia, in
generally timely and adequate counterpart funding and maintenance of strong technical teams at the STU level) -
compared with the less than satisfactory performance under earlier, more centralized rural development programs
- were judged to outweigh any apparent savings in the time and costs of processing individual state loans. Indeed,
implementation delays that could result from more complex arrangements to transfer funds from Federal to state
level might offset such savings and would certainly undermine the credibility of the project on the ground (where
communities now rely on timely decision-making and resource transfer).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector Issue                           Project                    Latest Supervision Ratings (PSR)
(Bank-financed rojects only)
Bank-financed:                                                             Implementation   Development
Progress       Objective
Land Reform                 Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project 1(7037-BR)    S               S
Land Reform and Poverty Allev. Pilot (4147-BR)      S               S
Community-based Rural       RPAP-Bahia (3917-BR)                                 S               S
Development                 RPAP-Ceara (3918-BR)                                 S               S
RPAP-Maranhao (4252-BR)                             S               S
RPAP-Paraiba (4251-BR)                              S               S
RPAP-Pernambuco (4122-BR)                            S              S
RPAP-Piaui (4121-BR)                                S               S
RPAP-Rio Grande do Norte (4120-BR)                  S               S
RPAP-Sergipe (3919-BR)                              S               S
Natural Resource Management  Nat. Res. Mgt and Pov. Allev. - Parana (4060-BR)    S               S
Land Management             Land Mgt II-Santa Catarina (3160-BR)                 S               S
Land Mgt and Pov. Allev. - RG do Sul (4148-BR)      S               S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design:
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation from federal to state and local
governments, to community organizations, ensures efficient program administration and superior outcomes.
Experience shows that decentralized community-driven approaches reduce bureaucracy, eliminate administrative
bottlenecks and reinforce accountability for project performance by placing decision-makers near beneficiaries.
Under the new project the existing, decentralized institutional structure will be further devolved, with increased
delegation of duties to Municipal Councils to promote more responsive and local level monitoring, data collection,
coordination, and supervision.
Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects has ensured that
investments meet genuine community needs, lead to cost savings, and has increased community 'ownership' leading
to improved sustainability of investments. This methodology will be continued under the new project.
Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria, can foster transparency,
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project resources reach the poorest areas,
Poverty targeting mechanisms under the RPAP to date have been notably effective in reaching the poorest rural
populations in the Northeast. About 84% of the program's beneficiary population are small farmers and rural laborers
living in remote, low density areas with acute deficiencies in access to basic infrastructure and services. A significant
additional population resides in rural areas directly adjacent to the urban periphery of municipal centers, where
headcount poverty measures are lowest. Experience with project Municipal Councils demonstrates that communities
themselves are the best-positioned and informed to target effectively. Under the new project, broad targeting will be
undertaken (i) at the municipal level, with indicative budgets assigned to each Municipal Council, differentiated
according to poverty indices; and (ii) at the community level, by the Municipal Councils. Communities which
improve their relative socioeconomic conditions significantly through project investments would be encouraged to
seek non-project financing to meet development needs. In field observations of the RPAP, Municipal Councils were



Page 13
found to already be following this practice, either (i) reducing priority ranking and/or (ii) excluding requests from
those communities that had already received several subprojects.
Supervision has been found to be an indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. It needs to be reinforced
at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs. Under
the new project supervision responsibilities will be increasingly devolved to MCs, who will be supported with training
and technical assistance. Measures will also be taken to modernize all Councils, gradually providing computers and
infornation technology to all of them.
A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and
necessary information to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool. Under
the new project important revisions have been undertaken to strengthen the MIS (Section C.4 under "Monitoring and
Evaluation Arrangements") to improve real time monitoring of the entire project cycle. A more comprehensive
impact evaluation component will also be introduced to measure income, welfare and social capital gains.
Dissemination of "best practices", such as experiences with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte, EMATERCE in Ceara,
FUMAC Councils in Bahia and Sergipe, and FUMAC-P in Pernambuco, can hasten learning and reward innovation.
Under the new project, exchanges between states, municipalities and communities will be expanded further using
more frequent training seminars, and workshops.
Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject preparation and
evaluation process, improves the quality of subprojects, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents
over-design and enables participation by poorer communities. The existing database of standard designs and
documentation have been reviewed, technically updated where necessary, and further expanded for the new project.
Environmental protection criteria: Experience demonstrates, that because of their small scale, most subprojects do
not have a significant effect on the environment. Nevertheless, the detailed environmental checklist developed under
RPAP will be maintained and has been updated for the proposed project. Where environmental issues are a concern,
standard subproject designs have been developed and will continue to be used by communities and MCs during
subproject implementation. Further, an environmental specialist will be maintained at the STU to provide additional
technical assistance on environmental matters as well as provide training to increase environmental awareness of MCs
and community groups.
Technical assistance enhances the ability of community associations and MCs to identify, prepare and implement
subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance needs to be
targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and financial capacity to participate in the
project. Locating and/or developing sources of technical assistance in rural areas requires significant attention and
needs to be monitored at the local level. Under the new project increased attention will be placed on training at the
community level - funds will be made available for the appointment of 'technical advisors' (known in Sergipe as
agentes de mudanca) to be recruited by each municipal council. These advisors will be responsible for managing and
coordinating local technical and training needs.  Increasing efforts will also be placed on more meaningful
involvement of civil society (e.g. NGOs and other civil and church groups) - particularly with respect to increasing the
flow of information, mobilizing the poorest groups and supporting training activities at the community level.
A system of checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, is essential to ensure proper use of funds
and sound targeting of resources. Rules and procedures for such a system, including guidelines for performance
incentives and penalties, have been reviewed and updated and are detailed in the Project Operational Manual.
Performance incentives will include promoting better-performing FUMAC Councils to FUMAC-P; increasing
Councils' indicative budget envelope; increasing the number of investments or investment volume permitted to a
community association; or incentives for environmental or technologically innovative investments. Penalties would
attach to cases of mismanagement and diversion of funds and include removal from eligibility to participate, reduced
availability of funds, demotion from FUMAC-P to FUMAC, and/or judicial penalties where appropriate. Additionally,
Municipal Councils include participation of local NGOs (i.e., Rural Workers' Union, the Church), representatives of
public ministries and municipal officials, and Council meetings are publicly announced and open to broad
participation. Finally, the project is installing computers in the Councils to, among other things, publicize Council



Page 14
decisions on their own and the Technical Unit's webpage. All of the above are designed to boost and institutionalize
transparency.
Minimize use of the PAC approach, particularly since the FUMAC and FUMAC-P sub-components have clear
advantages with respect to targeting, sustainability and social capital formation in poor rural communities. Under the
new project, PAC expenditure will not exceed 5% of total community subproject investments.
Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision
criteria. Under the new project, a 'one-shot' matching grant will be provided to eligible productive investments that
(i) provide services for a large number of community members; (ii) whose collective use is regulated by strict
operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); and (iii) for which operation and maintenance is assured by charging
adequate user fees to both association members and non-members. Revised procedures for productive subprojects are
outlined in the new Project Operational Manual, as are arrangements to facilitate access to formal credit by graduating
communities (Annex 3).
Broaden role of municipal councils in local planning, by promoting greater integration between local governments
and project municipal councils, and providing information to councils on other programs and alternative sources of
grant and credit financing. Field observations indicate that over 30% of project Municipal Councils already
participate in some prioritization of other (non-project) resources. If carefully nurtured, not only with the right mix of
technical assistance, information and funding support, but also by insisting that clear and transparent rules continue to
apply to the functioning of the Councils, this democratic forum may well become one of the most valuable and
durable institutions for rural development in the Northeast.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
For the State Government of Sergipe, the community-based approach to the provision of basic, social and productive
infrastructure has proven to be a cost-effective and timely means of improving the conditions of the rural poor. The
proposed project and its predecessors were designed in close consultation with the State Secretariat for Planning,
Science and Technology, which has actively promoted them domestically and abroad. The new operation was
submitted to the Federal Government and approved by the Inter-ministerial Commission for External Financing
(COFIEX) on October 26, 2000. The Federal Government has endorsed it (and the RPRP projects planned for other
states) as an integral part of its new Projeto Alvorada framework for poverty reduction.  The proposed project
implementation unit (PRONESE) has a long and substantial track record of implementing decentralized community-
based rural development projects. Its good performance in the management and implementation of the earlier R-
NRDP and RPAP, and the State's consistent record of timely counterpart funding, are evidence of strong commitment
to rural poverty reduction, which bodes well for the new project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
As the principal international partner engaged in a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to
address rural poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well-placed to support expansion of community-
based rural development efforts in the region. The Bank contributes its experience under the successful R-NRDP and
RPAP projects in Sergipe and other Northeast states - which have served as a template in the design of the new
operation. Bank participation will ensure that international experience with past and ongoing community-driven
programs is incorporated into project design and that sound international quality standards of monitoring, evaluation
and impact assessment are applied. An especially important feature of Bank value-added under the RPRP projects in
Sergipe and other states will be its ability to facilitate closer local integration of a wide spectrum of programs aimed at
rural poverty reduction. The Bank is well-positioned to help forge these links, not only because of its direct role in
financing the RPRP and developing the Municipal Council mechanism, but also because of its involvement in other
important sectoral programs relevant to rural poverty reduction (irrigation, agricultural research, land reform,
education, municipal development) and the many opportunities for policy dialogue and consensus building in the
context of its fairly active program of collaborative research and analytical work on poverty and rural development
issues in Brazil.
As the program has evolved and as processes have become increasingly refined, the Bank's role has also progressed.
Under the RPAPs, the Bank assumed the critical role of catalyst, serving as an independent monitor and evaluator of
program performance, helping to ensure that processes were complied with, that undue interference was minimized,



Page 15
and that lessons learnt during implementation were captured and applied. Under the new program, where processes
have already been well-developed, it is envisaged that the role of the Bank will shift once again to focus increasingly
on strengthening the linkages between community organizations, their representative councils and government, other
public programs, financial institutions and markets. By serving as facilitator, the Bank can play a critical role in
formalizing municipal councils as key partners in the local development process, be catalytic in helping to consolidate
the participatory and transparent resource allocation at the local level (including the use of information technologies),
and ensure that these processes continue beyond the life and scope of the project when external support will be
gradually phased out or redirected to other aspects of poverty reduction. Finally, the Bank will undertake, as part of
its strategic updating of all work in Northeast Brazil, a yearly review of how the implementation of the RPRP program
is contributing to integrate broader issues of poverty reduction in the Northeast.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (see Annex 5):
Specific investments carried out under the new project will be decided by communities over the life span of the
project. It is thus not possible to know a priori how available resources will be precisely allocated, and therefore a
precise ex ante estimation of their cost-effectiveness, economic rate of return and fiscal impact is not possible.
However, subprojects to be financed under the proposed project would, in general, be similar to those financed under
previous and ongoing community-based rural development projects. Based on the accumulated experience from the
R-NRDP and RPAP, the following aspects of project investments were assessed: (i) cost-effectiveness; (ii) financial
viability of productive subprojects; and (iii) the fiscal impact of the new RPRP.
Cost-effectiveness: Several aspects of project design help to ensure that infrastructure and social subprojects
undertaken represent the least-cost, best alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce
resources to flow where they are most needed. Community participation, under the direction of the project Municipal
Councils, ensures that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for the local community. Second, the use of
standard technical designs (projetos padrao) for the most common types of infrastructure and social subprojects
(including corresponding cost parameters) ensures that community associations employ least-cost models for
subproject implementation and also decrease search and information costs. Third, the delegation of subproject
implementation directly to the community associations has proven to generate cost savings, when compared to
comparable quality works implemented by public sector agencies. The contracting procedures prescribed in the
Project Operational Manual require direct contracting through competitive processes on all subprojects: the
community association solicits three bids for the subproject and chooses the least-cost bid. Based on the analysis of a
random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which collectively represent some 80% of the types of
subprojects being financed), it has been found that, for infrastructure and social subprojects, costs under the RPAP
were 30-50% cheaper than projects of similar quality, implemented by the state.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Internal rates of return were also estimated for the most common types of productive subprojects. These exceeded,
on average, 30 percent. Both analyses were made assuming constant benefits over a ten-year subproject life cycle. In
addition to these positive impacts, benefits are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities.
Sensitivity analysis performed on these illustrative subprojects, showed that they tend to be reasonably robust vis a
vis decreases in output and prices and increases in production costs.
Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main productive subprojects analyzed. Analysis of these
subprojects also suggests that investments are generally financially sustainable. Although beneficiary associations do
receive a one-time matching grant, the investments tend to be sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by
the average beneficiary association is normally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of original investments
before the end of their useful economic life.
The directfiscal impact of the new project on the Sergipe state budget depends on what the State would have done in
the absence of the project. First, if the State had alternatively provided these basic services through traditional
delivery mechanisms, the fiscal savings are direct and significant. Evaluations indicate that a significant fiscal
contribution will be made by subproject investments through expected cost savings to state and municipal
governments. For example, it is estimated that under the RPAP project, the State saved over R$500,000 per year by



Page 16
eliminating the need for water trucks to supply communities in some areas during droughts. This figure increases
further in times of severe drought. Even with savings derived from the RPAP, information from the Northeast
Regional Development Agency (SUDENE) shows that between October 1998 and June 2000, R$3.1 million was spent
in Sergipe on water trucks alone. Provision of better quality, more reliable water also has less quantifiable but
nonetheless significant impacts on health, reducing public health costs of Municipal Governments. There are also
tangible cost savings associated with the community driven design of the project. Under RPAP, the costs of
investments implemented by communities (either directly or contracted) under the project were 30-50% less than
prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type and quality. Furthermore, the Project alleviates over time
the dependency of municipalities on central and state government transfers by strengthening the capacity of local
governments and communities to take responsibility for local economic and social development.  Subproj ect
operation and maintenance costs are also typically paid by the beneficiary community, reducing the fiscal burden on
municipalities and states (with a few exceptions, e.g., electricity and some types of water supply, commonly
maintained by state agencies and operated in return for a user fee). Through a variety of design features (e.g., local
prioritization, development of financial plans, and operation and maintenance plans) the economic viability and
financial sustainability of subprojects are enhanced.  Second, if the State had not undertaken these investments in
basic services without this project, the additional, highly cost-effective spending is very small - 1% of total state
expenditures for year 2000 -- compared to total/discretionary/social spending, and has no significant impact on the
aggregate fiscal position of the State.
Finally, in terms of revenue generation, direct impacts are likely to be small, but indirect impact could be significant.
Incremental ICMS (sales tax) revenues are insignificant for the state. Much of the incremental production of the
subprojects is either self-consumed, not liable to taxation, and/or circulates in informal markets where tax is rarely
paid. But it can imply a significant increase in ICMS collected within the poor municipalities in which the project
operates (ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections, independent of where it is
collected). Experience under RPAP showed that there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic
appliances when electricity became available, appreciably increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities. This
observation is also applicable to purchases of items such as agricultural machinery and irrigation equipment.
3. Technical:
The technical viability of the project has been demonstrated under the successful R-NRDP and RPAP projects. The
new project will adopt similar institutional and implementation arrangements. Investment cost estimates, physical
contingencies, prices and estimates of inputs and outputs are based on actual historical data under these earlier
projects and thus are considered reliable. Technical standards of specific subprojects will be ensured through
standardized designs (including engineering aspects, technical, financial and economic feasibility, O&M,
environmental guidelines and cost parameters) that cover approximately 80% of subproject types normally demanded
by the communities. Field evidence demonstrates that these simple, practical standards have enhanced subproject
quality, sustainability and cost-effectiveness. All subprojects are screened by qualified staff in the STU anti
communities can contract technical assistance (up to 8% of subproject value) to assist in design and implementation of
subprojects. Training programs are also being offered to develop community capacity to prepare, implement, operate
and maintain projects. During project preparation Bank specialists reviewed the quality and sustainability of a variety
of community subprojects, including water, sanitation and power subprojects funded by RPAP, and found them to be
technically sound and sustainable. This methodology will be continued under the new RPRP.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies
The project will continue to be overseen by the State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC)
and administered and executed by the Northeast Program of the State of Sergipe (PRONESE) in partnership with
Community Associations (CAs) and Municipal Councils (MCs).



Page 17
b. Project management
Day to day coordination and management of the project is fully delegated to the Sergipe Technical Unit - PRONESE.
Resource allocation and prioritization of subprojects is undertaken by Municipal Councils, and subproject
implementation is managed and executed by community associations. Partnerships will also be established with civil
society (including NGOs) and State and Municipal public agencies to respond to communities' project
implementation needs.
PRONESE: is a semi-autonomous agency of the State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology
(SEPLANTEC) with its headquarters in the State capital of Aracaju. It enjoys significant administrative and financial
autonomy, with a strong network of infrastructure and human resources at headquarters, consistent with its diverse
responsibilities (and the relatively small size of the state). These include the recently closed Rural Poverty Alleviation
Project-Sergipe (Loan 3919-BR), the new, Bank-funded Land-based Poverty Alleviation project (Loan 7037-BR), as
well as urban development and employment and income programs in the poorest rural municipalities. PRONESE has
over 15 years of experience implementing rural development programs, including community-based development, and
has a proven track record in the successful implementation of the demand-driven model used in the RPAP and
replicated in the proposed project. PRONESE has a staff of well-qualified and experienced professionals, specializing
in the preparation, analysis, evaluation and supervision of subprojects.
Municipal Councils: are membership organizations comprising 80% representatives of beneficiary associations and
of civil society including unions, and 20% representatives of municipal government. They are established through
Municipal decree but have administrative and financial autonomy from the Municipal Government. MCs have been
formed and functioning since approximately 1994 after the reformulation of the NRDP. Detailed evaluations have
indicated that MCs provide a transparent and democratic forum for community decision making about local needs and
priorities. By providing a link to municipal government, the MCs play a critical role in embedding the community
based process in formal channels and are essential for building institutional sustainability of the project. Increasingly,
the councils are undertaking a broader municipal planning role and many are now routinely included in the process of
establishing local government investment priorities   In the new project, councils will assume additional
responsibilities, including oversight of community operation and maintenance of investments; an increasing role in
subproject approval, and as facilitators linking communities with external financial partners and other programs. A
focus of the new program will be training communities to assume these new responsibilities. In particular, additional
money will be made available for MCs to appoint technical advisors (agentes de mudan9a), to mobilize communities,
and provide assistance and information during implementation.
Community Associations: are legally constituted civil associations that serve as the foundation of project
implementation. They have shown, under the preceding programs, that they can be efficient and cost-effective agents
for their own development. Charging the communities with primary responsibility for the implementation, operation
and maintenance of their own subprojects has been found to enhance quality and reinforces community ownership.
The new project will continue to build on the latent capacity of community associations and their committees and
develop and reinforce it by making available funds for direct contracting of technical assistance, as well as training
programs to develop basic financial and administrative skills. For subproject-related assistance in design and
implementation, associations can contract technical assistance using up to 8% of subproject costs.
c. Procurement and financial management issues
Procurement and financial management systems have been reviewed by Bank specialists and are considered
satisfactory (see Annex 7).
5. Social:
Communities are creating the demand for the new project, and are dictating the types of subprojects to be financed,
demonstrating the high level of satisfaction with CDD delivery mechanisms. Detailed evaluations (Annex 2)
reinforce these findings. In the Mid-term Review of RPAP, and other evaluations, strong demand for subproject
investments has been observed. High levels of beneficiary satisfaction as well as strong economic impact of local
infrastructure investments were recorded.
Apart from meeting basic community investment needs, a major achievement of the program to date has been to foster
the creation of social capital within rural municipalities and their communities. This accumulation of social capital has



Page 18
increased with the introduction of the more decentralized FUMAC and FUMAC-P mechanisms. This is because the
MCs have provided a new, representative and transparent forum for local government and community representatives
to discuss and prioritize investment proposals. By providing communities the opportunity to address their needs
through a genuinely participatory process of decision making and oversight, the MCs have succeeded in: (i) reducing
clientelism and political interference; (ii) strengthening the capacity of both communities and municipal govermments
to select, prioritize and implement investment decisions; (iii) creating partnerships between communities, MCs and
municipal governments and more generally, increased the community voice in the use of public resources; and (iv')
fostering citizenship through increased awareness of social responsibilities of citizens, their representatives and public
authorities in community and public matters.
Experience shows that the mechanisms to be used in the proposed project (particularly FUMAC and FUMAC-P) have
promoted inclusion of all social groups. Under the RPAP, municipal councils and community associations had a
strong representation of women and minority groups. In the new project, the policies of open access to program
benefits, and widely dispersed information regarding program rules (using the information campaigns) will continue
to ensure equitable treatment of, and access for, all potential beneficiaries.
To further increase project impact the following changes are being implemented to continue to promote and
strengthen transparency and social inclusion:
* higher levels of funding for the poorest communities as determined by HDI indices;
* greater emphasis on FUMAC and FUMAC-P, and minimization of PAC;
* training of MCs in targeting, and introduction of performance incentives for reaching the poorest;
* promote sustainability by developing a strategy for linking communities to local governments, alternative funding
from financial institutions and to other programs
6. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category [ I A    [XI B   [I  C
The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification. Because of their relatively small size,
most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects would not have a significant effect on the environment. Experience
acquired during the execution of the RPAP-Sergipe from 1996 to 2000, demonstrated that few subproject investments
presented adverse environmental effects. An Environmental Checklist - already incorporated into the Project
Operational Manual under the previous project - has been revised and updated for the proposed project.
In a similar manner to the approach adopted under RPAP, the project would ensure proper environmental screening
and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing
negative effects on the environment. The Operational Manual specifies key environmental criteria and screening and
enforcement procedures to be followed for each type of subproject. These criteria have been reviewed and improved
for the new project. Each subproject proposal presented by the community associations will include a simple
environmental assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a standard format. For standard subproject types,
standard drawings have been upgraded for the new project to include special design considerations for potential
environmental issues (e.g., waste disposal for manioc mills). Environmental screening at the subproject approval stage
will be the responsibility of the STU and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types, for which technical
standards have not been developed, the STU will screen the subproject proposals in detail for environmental impact.
An environmental specialist will be specially retained by the STU for this purpose. This assessment and any
subsequent recommendations will be incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P subprojects, the
Municipal Councils will conduct the environmental screening together with either the STU or with contracted
technical assistance, such as NGOs. The STU has identified expertise within the state for technical assistance
purposes and would include environmental education and awareness as part of its training to Municipal Councils.
Enforcement of environmental criteria will be ensured via subproject supervision by the STU and Municipal Councils.



Page 19
7. Participatory approach:
Identification/   Implementation   Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries - all subprojects identified, prepared,
implemented (including procurement/contracting of works),  COL            MGT/COL          MGT/COL
supervised, operated and maintained by community
associations. Funds directly disbursed to community groups,
which also contribute to subproject costs.
Intermediary NGOs, private firms and other civil groups -  IS, CON       IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL
may provide technical assistance, facilitate information
dissemination to community associations, and assist in
mobilization and organization of communities.
State/Local government - local government participates in  IS, CON, COL  IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL
council meetings, and directly facilitates the work of the
councils.
Note: information sharing (IS), consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL); management (MGT)
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional sustainability: The institutional analysis of RPAP shows that by assigning greater responsibility and
influence to local level organizations and municipal governments, the project can successfully support decentralized
resource allocation and the creation of social capital in rural Sergipe. In the new project, even greater emphasis will
be placed on linking the FUMAC and FUMAC-P councils to local municipal planning and budgeting processes and
programs, as well as alternative credit and financial services. The aim of this effort will be the graduation of
communities who have accumulated sufficient assets and organizational capacity to gain access to mainstream
fmancing and other services.
Sustainability of PRONESE is not of concern because of its experience in rural development programs, technical and
administrative capacity, autonomy, and broad involvement in other State and Federal programs.
Financial sustainability: Financial analysis and field investigation confirms the sustainability of the investment
subprojects funded by the project. A sample of over 8,000 community subprojects funded in 1995 (under the R-
NRDP) and in 1997/98 (under RPAP), in all states included under the programs, was reviewed and it was found that
89% of these subprojects are fully operational to date. Analysis of productive subprojects revealed that cost recovery
through user fees by beneficiary associations is adequate to cover both operation and maintenance and replacement of
the original investment long before the end of its useful economic life.
Physical sustainability: Beneficiary participation at all stages of the subproject cycle, as well as significant levels of
community contribution (up to 25%) help to ensure subprojects are maintained. Further, the democratic process
intrinsic to FUMAC and FUMAC-P ensure better selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries,
enhancing long tern sustainability.  The Project requires the establishment of community funded operation and
maintenance plans - only subprojects that have realistic maintenance plans would be approved and financed.
Subproject maintenance would be monitored by Municipal Councils and PRONESE during the Project. Performance
incentives for proper operation and maintenance are included in project design.



Page 20
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk            Risk                      Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Project      * Subprojects do not      M      * Training of MCs and introduction of performance incentives for proper
Outputs to      target the rural poor            targeting, accompanied by greater oversight of poverty targeting by
Development                                      STU. Expansion of FUMAC, FUMAC-P; reduction of PAC to fixed
Objectives                                       minimum.
* Communities do not     N      *  Information dissemination of project guidelines and processes.
effectively prioritize           Provision of technical assistance to promote social inclusion. Short
needs                            negative list of subprojects ineligible for funding.
* Erosion of political   M       * Continued demonstrated success of the program reinforcing ownership
support at local, state          of program at all levels. Strengthen links between MCs and the .ocal
and national level for           govermnent for mutual benefit.
community based
approach
* Politicization of      M      * Membership of MCs with voting rights comprises 80% of beneficiary
Municipal Councils              representatives and civil society. Use of Information Technology for e-
transparency.
* CAs and MCs are        M       *  Systematic training and technical assistance to both community
unable to implement              associations and MCs targeted at specific needs associated with
and manage good                  subproject implementation, operation and maintenance. Standard
quality subprojects.            designs and cost criteria will be provided for most types of subprojects.
Greater emphasis on performance incentives and penalties.
Project      * Inadequate and/or       M      * Share counterpart funding contributions between State, local
Components      untimely flow of                 government and beneficiaries. Continued efforts to reduce transaction
to Outputs      counterpart funds                costs affecting timely flow of funds.
* Communities reluctant   N     * Active information dissemination campaign is a condition of
to adopt FUMAC and               effectiveness of the project. Widespread dissemination of project
FUMAC-P options                  achievements to demonstrate the benefits of participation. STU efforts
to establish additional MCs.
* MCs not representative   N     *  Strict enforcement of project requirement that beneficiary associations
of constituents                  comprise 80% of the membership of MCs. Communities inforred of
the project rules relating to transparency, democracy and accountability.
*  MCs not given clear    M      *  Strict Bank supervision of STU adherence to project rules concerning
indicative budgets for          indicative budgets.
decision making
*  Technical assistance    M    *  Funds for technical assistance are provided to MCs and communities,
services not available           and they are informed of funding availability. Appointment of salaried
or not used by MCs              Technical Advisor to each MC, paid by project funds. STU will
and communities                 prepare and disseminate a list of reliable, experienced TA providers for
community and MC use. Seminar to encourage local service pro-ider
participation in the project.
*  Subprojects not       M      *  Subproject proposals will be required to include an operation and
properly maintained              maintenance plan, and execution of this plan will be monitored by the
MCs. Performance penalties are included in project design to (i)
ensure MC proper annual checking of O&M compliance by
associations; and (ii) ensure communities maintain investments
satisfactorily.
Overall Project Risk Rating            Moderate
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 21
3. Possible controversial aspects:
There are no existing or envisaged controversial features of this project.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
*  Preparation of an action plan for statewide information campaign, satisfactory to the Bank;
*  Adoption of Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank;
*  Revised MIS established and operational, satisfactory to the Bank; and
* Terms of Reference for the project evaluation baseline study and overall evaluation framework, satisfactory to
the Bank.
H. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies
Luis 0. Coirolo            John Redwood, Director                  L       riel Azevedo
Task Team Manager            Sector Management Unit                     Acting Director
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable  Brazil - Country Management Unit
Development               Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Page 22
Annex 1
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance          Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
Sector related CAS Goal:                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Rural Poverty Reduction    1. Reduction in poverty    I . Annual economic    Relevance of poverty indicators
incidence in rural       statistics         for actual prevalence of rural
areas                    (IMF/World Bank)  poverty.
2. Poverty assessment
reports (World
Bank)
3. Census indicators
4. Govermment
Economic Reports.
Project Development                                                           (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Improving well-being and    1. Number of families    1. Project Impact     1. Macroeconomic shockEs or
incomes of the rural poor     benefited from            Evaluation            natural disaster do not
through better access to      subproject            2. PRONESE Bi-            eliminate poverty alleviation
basic social and economic     investments;              annual Progress       gains achieved by the
infrastructure and services    2. Incremental           Reports               program.
and support for productive    employment generated  3. MIS updates
activities, using proven      from subproject       4. Beneficiary        2. Sufficient complement of
community-driven              investments;              surveys               other resources (e.g. health,
development (CDD)         3. Increase in well-being   5. Sergipe's            education, credit, Proj eto
techniques.                   and incomes of project    Economic              Alvorada, 2000-2002i
beneficiaries;           Development
2. Increasing the social capital  4. Increase in social    (IDE) & Social
of rural communities to       welfare of rural          Development (IDS)
organize collectively to meet  communities;             indices
own needs                 5. Increase in social     6. MC Reports
capital index (CPI) of
3. Enhancing local governance     project Municipal
by greater citizen            Councils;
participation and         6. Number of Municipal
transparency in decision-     Councils participating
making, through creation      in priority-setting and
and strengthening of          decision-making on
community associations and    resource allocation of
Municipal Councils.           project and non-
project funded
4. Raising the volume and         development
improving the impact of       activities; and
public resources applied to   7. Increase in total
rural poverty reduction in    project and non-
Sergipe, fostering closer     project financing
integration of development    allocated through
policies, programs and        Municipal Council
projects at the local level by  mechanism.
assisting Municipal
Councils to extend their role
in seeking funding, priority-
setting and decision-making
over resource allocation.



Page 23
Outputs:                                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
1. Social, economic and       I. Number, type of       I. PRONESE Bi-        I. Subprojects will target the
productive infrastructure     subprojects              annual Progress       rural poor
implemented and           2. Number of subprojects     Reports           2. Communities effectively
maintained.                   operating and well   2. MIS                    prioritize needs
maintained one & two   3. WB Supervision   3. Continued political support at
2. Community associations        years after completion    Reports              local, state and national level
organizing to meet own    3. Cost-effectiveness and  4. MC reports           for   community   based
needs.                        quality of basic                               approach
infrastructure and                         4. Community associations and
3. Responsive MCs setting and    social subprojects                              municipal councils are able
achieving local priorities.    4. Economic efficiency,                       to implement good quality
financial viability of                         subprojects.
prod. subprojects
5. [Number of
CAs]/[total number of
communities in project
area]
6. Growth of number of
CAs
7. Number of subproject
proposals
submitted/year
8. Percentage of women
in MCs and
community
associations
9. MC resource
utilization: [MC
disbursement]/[MC
allocation]
10. Growth in number of
FUMAC-P
11. Number of CAs
formally graduated
12. Number of CAs
participating in MCs
which don't have
subprojects
Project Components/Sub        Inputs: (budget for each                       (Components to Outputs)
components:                   component)
1. Community subprojects     1. US$25.0 M              1. PRONESE bi-        1. Timely flow of counterpart
annual Progress       funds to PRONESE
2. Institutional Development    2. US$1.5 M                Reports and WB    2. Subprojects will be high
bi-annual             quality and sustainable
3. Administration, Monitoring   3. US$1.5 M                Supervision       3. Widespread adoption of
and Evaluation                                         missions              FUMAC and FUMAC-P by
communities
4. MCs are representative of
constituents
5. MCs are given clear
indicative budgets for
effective decision making
6. Technical assistance services
are available and are used by
MCs and communities
7. Subprojects will be
maintained.



Page 24
Annex 2
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Evaluation of the Brazilian Experience with Rural Poverty Reduction'
I. INTRODUCTION
Northeast Brazil, consisting of nine states, and part of a tenth, contains the single largest concentration of poverty in
Latin America. With a combined land area of 1.6 million km2 _ 16% of Brazil's total - the Northeast is home to 45
million (28%) of Brazil's 160 million people. More than 60% of all Brazilian poor, and about 70% of the country's
rural poor live in the Northeast. Of the 16.5 million in rural communities of the Northeast, 6.8 million (41%) live on
about US$1 per day - and 9.4 million people (57%) at around US$2 per day. A recent poverty review of Brazil finds
annual per-capita incomes in the Northeast (estimated at R$2,123) are only 42% of the national annual figure of
R$4,945 while the income levels of project beneficiaries in the rural Northeast, are only 10% of the national average.
This high incidence of poverty in the Northeast, especially in rural areas, has made this region a priority for public
development programs.
Rural development indicators for the region also reflect the lack of access to basic services. The rural Northeast has:
(a) a rate of chronic malnutrition for children under five of 31%, compared to 15% nationwide; (b) 77% of households
without piped water, compared to 48% for the rural population nationwide; (c) 37% of households without electricity,
compared to 25% for the rural population nationwide; and (d) 55% of households without access to proper sanitation
facilities, compared to 33% for the rural nationwide.2 The adult literacy rate in the Northeast is 60%, compared to
86% nationwide. Nearly half of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone. The rural poor
are small farm owners, tenants, sharecroppers, and landless laborers who face volatile climatic conditions, fluctuating
markets, skewed access to land, and almost no rural financial intermediation. The poor thus rely on subsistence
cropping of basic foods, small-scale animal husbandry, some cash crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual
agricultural and nonagricultural work, pensions, and remittances from family members living in cities. These
circumstances result in poor social conditions and a low productivity agricultural system, with modest input use and
slow rates of technology adoption.
The State of Sergipe has a population of 1.7 million of which about 30% or 573,000 persons are rural. Just over one-
third of all rural households have an income of less than one minimum salary per month (about US58), rising to two
thirds of all rural households with income below two minimum salaries monthly, or between US$1.50-
US$2.00/day/person. Close to 72% of rural Sergipe households lack piped water supply, 42% are without sanitation
services, and just over 14% of rural households remain without electricity (rural electrification programs having been
active in the state), compared, respectively, with 6%, 3% and 0.8% for urban Sergipe, and 7%, 3% and 0.9% for urban
Brazil as a whole.
Recent successful rural development projects - the Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Project (R-NRDP)
[1993-1996] followed by the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs) [1995 - present) - have helped to alleviate
conditions, and present a promising approach to addressing persistent poverty levels.3 The combined program - the
R-NRDP (including a community-based pilot part of the Northeast Rural Development Program before its
reformulation) and the RPAPs - has successfully financed some 50,000 community-managed subprojects in over
1,500 of the 1,665 municipalities of the Northeast, providing basic services to about 1.7 million of the poorest
families, or some 7.5 million rural poor, in over 30,000 separate communities.
Although these achievements have contributed to a reduction in the growth of rural poverty in the Northeast, the sheer
scale of poverty there remains high. The poor continue to suffer from chronic malnutrition, low levels of education
' Including the Bank co-financed Northeast Rural Development Program, particularly its reformulation in 1993, and the Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program 1995 - present
2 Pesquisa NacionalporAmostra de Domicilio, IBGE 1999.
3These projects, whidh currently span eight of the states of Northeast Brazil, are referred to cumulatively as the 'North East Brazil Rural Poverty
.4lleviation Program.'



Page 25
and lack of access to basic water, sanitation, and electricity services. To address this rural poverty, the Government of
Brazil, in partnership with the World Bank and the Northeast States, plans to expand and consolidate the achievements
of the R-NRDP and RPAP programs through a new series of Rural Poverty Reduction projects. Building on the
successful mechanisms employed under those previous generations, these new projects will continue to improve both
effectiveness and sustainability of impacts through adjustments to operational features reflecting lessons learned from
implementation.
Strong monitoring and evaluation, combined with intensive, locally-based supervision, have been an important facet
of the program, contributing to the depth of knowledge that exists on its performance. From March 1998 through
March 2000, the program underwent extensive evaluation comprising a series of independent reviews to assess overall
impact in achieving poverty reduction objectives. This Annex presents findings from the evaluation, as well as a
decade of implementation experience, focusing on the achievements of the most recent (and therefore most evolved)
RPAP-style projects (but also including information about the NRDP and the R-NRDP), synthesizing lessons learned
and already incorporated in the proposed successor projects.
II. THE EVOLUTION OF COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NORTHEAST BRAZIL
Community-based activities were first introduced to Northeast Brazil in 1985 as a small-scale pilot component of the
World Bank-financed Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). For several years following effectiveness, this
community-based component - Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais (APCR) - was the only activity under the
NRDP to disburse effectively and achieve positive results on the ground. The APCR, at a total component cost of
US$106 million, represented one of the most significant attempts of the Bank to make rural development projects
more participatory. The APCR fund made grants of up to US$ 10,000 to community associations in towns of less than
5,000 inhabitants. About 60% of the grants financed community-owned ventures like grain-milling facilities, seed
banks, input-supply stores, and storage facilities. Another 25% went to small works projects (e.g., road repair,
community laundries, public toilets) while the remaining 15% supported institution-building activities in rural
community associations. Relying on rural communities to organize, prioritize needs, and plan, execute and manage
subprojects, this innovative component produced results that were both encouraging and replicable, demonstrating that
by involving communities, poverty reduction could be achieved at a low per family cost. Equally important, the
APCR demonstrated the ability of municipal governments - which were not originally included as project participants
- to mobilize additional resources at a time of severe fiscal austerity.
In late 1993, drawing on lessons from the APCR and similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, the NRDP was
reformulated into a full-scale community-based development program (R-NRDP). Significant features of the
reformulation were: (i) decentralized decision-making, (ii) state and community counterpart funding responsibilities
and (iii) delegated implementation from the Federal Government to the State and local levels. Subsequent evaluation
of the Northeast program has confirmed that not only was it an effective model for rural poverty alleviation, but also
became a key tool of the Northeast States for promoting organized decentralization, local development and
community participation.4
After field-testing the R-NRDP model for over three years, eight Northeast State Governments (Bahia, Ceara,
Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe) scaled-up the use of the methodology and
ushered in the follow-on Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs). Since their inception in 1995/96, the RPAPs
have financed almost 20,000 community-managed investments comprising basic social, productive and infrastructure
services, benefiting some 1.1 million rural families, with high levels of efficiency, sustainability and demonstrable
impact on the poorest, providing improved access to services and enhanced employment opportunities.
Building on the success of this new approach to rural development, a follow-on round of Rural Poverty Reduction
Projects is proposed. These projects will consolidate gains made under the previous generations of the Northeast
program and expand the coverage of the program to all ten States, while simultaneously integrating activities of the
Municipal councils with the local government and, through more focused investment, promote asset accumulation of
the poorest.
4 For Sergipe-specific R-NRDP evidence of these successes, see Annex 2, SAR, Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Sergipe, Document no. 14394-
BR (June 1995).



Page 26
III. INFORMATION SOURCES
Strong monitoring and evaluation, combined with intensive, locally-based supervision, have been an important feature
of the Northeast program. Extensive studies of the program have also evaluated project impact in achieving povert,
alleviation objectives. Data for this review were collected from a variety of sources, including:
a. Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government Performance
Evidence from Northeast Brazil, an evaluation of the R-NRDP and RPAP programs conducted by FAO/CTI
(July 2000);5
b. Evaluation studies carried out by independent consultants contracted by STUs in six Northeast states. These
studies covered 331 municipalities, 671 communities, 3,888 families and more than 420 community
subprojects of different types financed in Bahia, Ceara, Sergipe, Pematnbuco, Piauf and Rio Grande do
Norte. In Bahia, Ceara and Sergipe, both a physical performance study and project impact assessment were
completed. In Pernambuco, Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte, baseline studies and physical performance
reviews were conducted. In all six states, these studies complemented monitoring reports (semi-annual and
annual) prepared by the STUs, covering all project activities since effectiveness. Samples for the evaluatiori
studies were based on the most representative subprojects financed up to early 1998 for Bahia, CearA and
Sergipe and early 1999 for Pemambuco, Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte;
c. A community participation study, conducted by an independent consultant under the World Bank/FAO-CP
agreement in these six Northeast states;
d. Supervision missions carried out by the states, FAO and the Bank during a two-year period from March 1998
to April 2000. These missions interviewed STU technical staff and visited a large number of communities in
some 110 municipalities to interview and meet with community leaders, beneficiaries, members of FUMAC
Councils and municipal authorities (including mayors, council members, municipal secretaries). Case studies
were also prepared.
e. Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for the ten R-NRDP projects, which detail all aspects of project
execution, Borrower and Bank performance, and indicators related to cost-effectiveness and sustainability of
subprojects financed under the R-NRDP. Results from these ICRs were summarized and included in the Staff
Appraisal Reports for the eight RPAPs (most notably, see Annex 2 for each respective state SAR).
f.  The Management Information System (MIS), which provides current data on all subprojects, including a
characterization of associations, types of subprojects, number of beneficiaries, subprograms, budgets, costs,
financial transactions, subproject status, as well as relevant data and information on technical assistance,
training and supervision reports. MIS data are updated monthly and transmitted electronically to the Bank
which, in turn, operates its own database with project data and information on all eight RPAP states. The
Program's monitoring and evaluation were cited Best Practice in the World Bank document, Measuring the
Poverty Impact of Projects in LAC (July 6, 1998);
g. More broadly, the Bank has also invested in a variety of studies and analytical work in recent years to
identify the dimensions, characteristics and causes of rural poverty in Brazil and to develop strategic options
for policies and programs. Most notable among these studies have been: (a) Brazil Poverty Assessment
(Report No. 14323, 1995); (b) State Economic Memoranda (similar to CEMs albeit at state level, SEMs
have been completed or are in progress for Ceara, Pernambuco, Bahia and other Northeast states); (c) Rural
Poverty Reduction in Brazil: Towards an Integrated Strategy (April 2001); and (d) various surveys,
evaluations and impact assessments of the R-NRDP and RPAP projects.
5Van Zyl, J., Sonn, L., Costa A.



Page 27
IV. IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS OF THE NORTHEAST PROGRAM6
a. Subprojects: Major types, costs and implementing mechanisms
Rural Northeast communities have demonstrated their strong interest and high level of demand for the program by
submitting, through end-April 2001, well over 90,000 subproject proposals for funding and implementation under the
combined programs. Based on these proposals, the Northeast States cumulatively implemented some 50,000
subprojects, implying that a little over one-half of identified needs could be met, with available resources under the
program and after the analysis of proposals presented.  Subprojects were implemented across three types of
implementation instruments:7
State Community Schemes (PAC): The original delivery mechanism devised under the R-NRDP, and applied
also under Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP).8
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAQC): Initially piloted under the R-NRDP, FUMAC channels
subproject funds through project municipal councils, where proposals are prioritized and approved through
participatory processes.
Pilot Municipal Funds Schemes (FUM4C-P): First piloted under the RPAP, selected FUMAC councils
prioritize and approve subprojects submitted by rural communities and then finance them within the context
of an annual budget allocated to each council by the STU.
Over nearly fifteen years of implementation (including the APCR pilot which preceded the R-NRDP), the delivery
cost of the combined program has been consistently low. Overall, the average subproject cost (including community
contribution) was about US$19,000, yet within the program, the cost structure (as a function of the differing scale of
subproject investments) varied significantly. For example, APCR investments were limited to a maximum of
US$10,000, whereas under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP, the maximum was US$50,000. Notably, average
subproject cost under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP were US$24,000 and US$23,500, respectively.
Specific to the RPAP, subproject costs were remarkably similar for the different investment types (i.e., infrastructure,
productive and social), while average subproject cost by subprogram (i.e., PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P) varied,
with cost efficiency increasing from PAC to FUMAC to FUMAC-P. Some 77% of subproject investments selected by
communities comprised basic rural infrastructure (e.g., water and electrification), another 20% were productive in
nature (e.g., small scale agro-processing and communal tractors), while the remaining 3% represented investments of
a social nature (e.g., day care centers or health-related house rehabilitation).  While more than 100 categories are
represented in the data, rural water supply systems and rural electrification were by far the most popular types of
investments. Other popular subprojects included rural access road improvement, communal tractors, small bridges,
manioc mills, sanitation systems and small irrigation schemes. These findings were reasonably consistent across the
different subprograms - PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P.
b. Beneficiaries: Families, community associations and municipalities
Since its inception, the Northeast program has benefited nearly 1.7 million families.9 This represents 53% of the total
target population for the eight RPAP projects in aggregate, and about 25% of all rural families in these states.  The
gradual accumulation by some of the target population of benefits and assets under the ACPR, R-NRDP and RPAP (as
well as other programs) has a significant impact on community development (see also Technical Evaluation, Section
VI). This constitutes an important element of a strategy to graduate some of these beneficiary communities into other,
non-grant based programs (see Section V for more detailed discussion on graduation).
6 The Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program (R-NRDP), including the pilot component (APCR) and the Northeast Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program.
For more detailed definitions of PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P, see Section 3.1 and Annex 3.
Subprojects under the APCR component most closely resembled the PAC mechanism.
'Net of repeat families (i.e., those benefiting from more than one subproject) within and across programs (i.e., APCR, R-NRDP and RPAP).



Page 28
Through April 2001, the combined program had subprojects implemented in over 1,500 municipalities (86% of rural
Northeast municipalities), engaging more than 30,000 community associations. Under the R-NRDP, PAC accounted
for 79% of subprojects implemented, with the remaining 21% of subprojects financed under FUMAC. The RPAP
mainstreamed the FUMAC concept, resulting in slightly more than one-half of subprojects being financed under this
subprogram; PAC accounted for about 45% of all RPAP subprojects, with an additional 4% made up of FUMAC-P
subproject activity.  In sum, the program  has evidenced a gradual yet sustained move toward increased
decentralization of project implementation as emphasis has shifted from PAC to FUMAC to FUMAC-P. Some 1,000
Municipal Councils - with 80% of membership drawn from potential beneficiary communities and 20% representing
the public sector and broader civil society  have been established and are active in program implementation.
The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program comprises eight State projects in Northeast Brazil with total Bank loans c,f
US$444.0 million, effective in the period from late 1995 to 1998, and with Closing Dates ranging from June 30, 2001
to June 30, 2003. The combined disbursement of the eight projects through April 30, 2001 amounted to US$382.1
million or 86% of the total. The State of Sergipe has fully-disbursed its US$36.0 million loan. State counterpart
funding availability was problem-free throughout the implementation period, indicative of strong commitment. The
pace and quality of project implementation was commendable, with the State meeting or exceeding most of its
original targets, greatly exceeding expected numbers of beneficiary families and FUMAC municipal councils
established. The STU (PRONESE) has been notable for its high quality, regular supervision of subprojects, for rapid
problem-solving on behalf of community associations, and for introducing the effective "change agents" systern,
comprising technical assistants retained by the FUMAC Councils to facilitate community mobilization, organization
and participation, as well as operational aspects of subproject investments.
V.     IMPACT ANALYSIS OF THE NORTHEAST PROGRAM
Evaluation of the Northeast program indicates that its primary objective - reduction of rural poverty - is being
efficiently achieved on a significant scale.
a. Local level
The Northeast program has made a substantial contribution to both the quality of life of the beneficiaries and the local
economy. The availability of electricity and water supply, localized improvements to feeder roads and bridges,
rehabilitation of rural schools and health posts, and the provision of community-owned productive infrastructure, have
changed the socio-economic outlook of entire communities throughout the region. Equally important, the Northeast
program is contributing, through mobilization associated with subproject execution (and coupled with training and
technical assistance) to gradual yet substantial accumulation of social capital in poor rural communities.
Socioeconomic impact
Benefits under the combined programs have included: (i) improved living conditions; (ii) improved health conditions
and productivity; (iii) increased family income; and (iv) job creation - all serving to gradually lift beneficiary families
from poverty. Prior to the program, most of the recipient rural communities suffered from lack of access to water,
electricity and other basic infrastructure. As of end-April 2001, some US$900 million have been disbursed to finance
some 50,000 community subprojects under the APCR, NRDP and RPAP. These social and infrastructure community
subprojects, the Northeast program has provided access to these previously unavailable services. Basic infrastructure
and social subprojects have also provided communities with cleaner water, better sanitary conditions, and also
resulting in significant health improvements for the recipient communities as well as savings related to reduced
medical assistance. Specific to the RPAP, an evaluation of the aggregate socioeconomic impact of the US$362
million total of community subproject investments under the RPAPs to March 2000 indicates that: (i) more than
40,000 additional permanent jobs were created, (ii) an additional 35,000 hectares were brought under cultivation, (iii)
additional sustainable income or savings of more than $80 million per annum.



Page 29
When the impact of the predecessor R-NRDP was included, aggregate investments of about US$800 million through
March 2000 have generated almost 100,000 additional permanent jobs, an increase in cultivated area of about 85,000
ha., and have generated additional, sustainable annual income or savings of US$203 million. '
At the subproject level, the socioeconomic impact of investments varies, but is evaluated briefly below according to
type - basic infrastructure, social or productive subprojects.
*  Basic Infrastructure: About 77% of subproject investments under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program were in
basic infrastructure -rural electrification and water supply being the most important. Investments in rural
electrification provide obvious benefits in terms of access to information, knowledge and even distance learning
by radio and television, facilitating household work but also contributing to improved health for the entire family
through better food storage. There is also evidence that, when coupled with other subprojects, rural electrification
can lead to initiatives or productive activities that create jobs and increase household income (e.g., small
irrigation schemes, small businesses and agro-industries).
Similarly, water supply subprojects directly and rapidly improve families' level of well-being through provision
of good-quality water. The construction of almost 10,000 community-built and managed water supply systems
under the combined programs (to April 2001) has meant that thousands of families no longer depend on the
intermittent water trucks during drought, thousands of women no longer spend 4-5 hours daily collecting water
and large numbers of infants do not die of water-borne diseases. Analyses from the RPAP alone suggest that net
annual income/savings per rural water supply subproject were approximately US$12,000/subproject. These
income/savings are comprised largely of time savings, foregone health expenditures and increased agricultural
production. This is significantly higher than other types of infrastructure subprojects, which typically return lower
than US$2,000 per annum. Other common types of infrastructure subprojects, such as community road
improvements, telephone booths, and construction of small bridges not only improve the living conditions of
residents of small rural communities, but also facilitate the movement of people, inputs and products as well as
communications with family members who have migrated and live and work in other towns. Analysis of a
sample of over 8,000 basic infrastructure investments indicate sustained impact - 89% of infrastructure
subprojects funded/executed in 1995/98 continued to be fully operational in March 2000.
*  P;.oductive investments. Investment in productive activities - i.e., subprojects involving the production and/or
transformation, or processing of agricultural and non-agricultural goods - were typically demanded by
communities only after basic infrastructure needs were met. About 20% of investments under the Rural Poverty
Alleviation program were for productive activities, such as small scale agro-processing and communal tractors.
Productive investments have a relatively strong potential for generating income opportunities in the short and
medium terms, especially for projects with simple production processes and low exposure to market risks (e.g.,
manioc mills, small irrigation schemes, tractors, primary processing of corn and rice, and cashew nut). Internal
rates of return for productive subprojects exceeded, on average, 30% (see Annex 5). Furthermore, these
productive ventures are, in general, financially sustainable, with about three and one-half years needed, on
average, to recover the capital invested and user fees adequate to cover O&M. More complex undertakings (e.g.,
clothes-making, community brick and ceramics factories) have also been successful when packaged with
technical assistance and training. For a sample of 1,820 productive subprojects funded/executed in 1995/98,
some 1,580 or 86.8% were found to be in full operation in March 2000.
It is expected that the fmancing of productive investments will stabilize, with STUs expanding financing to
communities that have until now not benefited from infrastructure subprojects and /or from growth. Various
cases have been identified of communities that initially benefited from infrastructure or productive investments,
graduated from the program, and are now beginning productive undertakings with the assistance of conventional
sources of financing (e.g., Banco do Nordeste, Banco do Brasil), or other programs. This trend will be promoted
in the new project, with enhanced linkages to other projects/programs, credit and markets.
*  Social investments: Under the Rural Poverty Alleviation program, social subprojects (e.g., sanitation, health-
related housing improvement and social centers) have comprised 3% of total subprojects. Sanitation subprojects
"' Van Zyl, J,. Sonn, L., Costa, A. (FAO/CP evaluation): Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local
Government Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil (July 2000)



Page 30
(e.g., latrines, septic tanks) have improved community health. Community centers financed under the program
have served both social and productive functions (e.g., hosting various civic events, serving as sites for training).
Similarly, communal wash-houses that provide washing water for family laundry fulfill a social function while
providing a valuable service to the community. Impacts were also sustained - for a sample of 239 social
subprojects funded/executed in 1995/98, 88% of them remained operational in March 2000.
Targeting
Effective targeting of the rural poor is crucial, given the matching grant-based nature of subproject investments.
Under the RPAP, but also under the R-NRDP, targeting has occurred at two distinct levels: (a) selection of
municipalities based on poverty level and/or other socioeconomic characteristics and (b) selection of beneficiary
communities through Municipal Council deliberations.   Furthermore, consistent with the demand-driven
characteristics of the program, prospective beneficiaries "self-select" in that community associations identify local
needs and prepare subproject proposals to address them. Populations targeted under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP
have been poor and, in general, strategies for targeting these groups seem to have produced the desired results. There
is reasonable certainty that the relatively better-off and better-organized communities did not capture a larger than
proportional share of project benefits. Targeting was somewhat less precise in municipalities where only PAC
subprojects had been implemented; the expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P largely resolved this difficulty, since
Municipal Councils - where community representation is strong - can make better allocation decisions due to local
knowledge of both community needs and their extent of vulnerability. The recent Rural Poverty Review for Brazil
assessed the coverage and targeting of several social programs in Brazil; it found the RPAP to be among the best
performers in terms of both coverage and targeting. Not only have the vast majority of program resources under the
RPAPs (approximately 93%) reached the final beneficiaries as direct subproject investment, but evaluations indicate
that targeting of the poorest has been effective with 75% of beneficiaries having an initial income of less than US$l
per day.
Graduation
By improving living standards and economic conditions of beneficiaries, the RPAP and the R-NRDP have stimulated
asset accumulation at both the local and household levels, an important consequence of which is that, over time,
certain communities have satisfied their basic needs and increased their socio-economic standing. Because future
project resources will be targeted to the poorest, these communities will eventually be precluded from further project
financing. Field observations suggest that the expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P mechanisms has led to a natural
process of community graduation by Municipal councils. For those communities which have implemented a number
of subprojects, this informal graduation entails either (i) reducing the community's priority ranking within the
municipality or (ii) excluding the community's subproject proposals. Municipal council performance in regard to
graduation needs to be more closely monitored to ensure consistency. Under the proposed project, the following will
be applied:
Graduation of communities - exit strategy. Most of the investments requested by communities in the past
(around 77%) comprised infrastructure subprojects. However, since the rural poor are generally off the radar
screen of any formal credit institution in the rural Northeast, particularly as individuals, project matching
grants for productive investments and technical assistance can be catalytic by encouraging the formnation of
groups, providing some experience in the management of financial assets and income-earning activities, and
thus making them more attractive to financial institutions. Therefore, communities that presently lack access
to formal credit can qualify for one grant-based productive subproject (defined as those generating product
sold in the market), after which they will be graduated from such support, (under the R-NRDP and RPAP
there were no limits, although as a practical matter the MCs have tended to limit communities to an average
two subprojects of any kind, in order to ration scarce resources). At the same time, a major effort will be
made to link communities graduating from productive projects, to possible sources of formal credit. In
particular, the Bank of the Northeast (BN) has increasingly been seeking organized communities to which it
can provide group credit. BN and the RPAPs have already partnered in some places, albeit in an ad hoc
manner - but there is now enough positive experience that the state of Sergipe and BN are interested in
taking the cooperation to another level. Therefore, agreements have been reached on information sharing and
coordination, which will be detailed in the project Operational Manual: (a) BN will have access to relevant
information from the project MIS about group credit candidates, which it will pass on to its units in charge of



Page 31
credit lines and government programs in which it participates; (b) BN's local development agents will be
invited to attend Municipal Council meetings; and (c) BN will provide Sergipe with feedback on project-
graduated groups to which it has extended credit, for use in project monitoring and evaluation. BN has also
undertaken to expand its testing of the Bank-financed CrediAmigo micro-credit program into rural areas.
With regard to community infrastructure and social subprojects, graduation considerations are different.
Most of these subprojects are in the realm of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social
investments), and the definition of the minimum acceptable level of such services necessarily varies over
time. Grant-based support is provided because of the poverty targeting under the project. The R-NRDPs and
RPAPs demonstrated that the CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the
poorest can work, in a cost effective manner and on a large scale, while also having important impacts in
terms of social capital formation and improved local governance. Under the proposed project in Sergipe
(both the initial and second phases), the State intends to expand the coverage of the CDD approach 'and to
encourage project Municipal Councils to proactively seek new sources of funding, and to engage in priority-
setting and decision-making over a much wider range of activities, with a view to improving the
effectiveness of local governments and the integration and overall impact of public resources directed
towards rural poverty reduction.
b. State and Municipal Levels (see also Annex 5)
Subprojects implemented under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP programs have injected significant levels of
resources into the economies of beneficiary municipalities through direct investment, revenue generation and cost
savings. At the Municipal level, the program has delivered to the rural poor cost-effective basic infrastructure and
services in a timely fashion. Evaluations indicate that, had these investments been undertaken in the traditional
manner, they would have constituted a larger burden on State and Municipal government budgets and taken longer to
complete. For example, the rural water supply subprojects in beneficiary communities have replaced recurrent
expenditures that municipalities and States have typically incurred to mitigate the often severe and protracted drought.
In Sergipe alone, it is estimated that such savings totaled more than R$500,000 annually, during a year of "normal"
rainfall; in CearA and Bahia, the amount exceeded R$1 million annually. In years of severe drought, such as 1998,
savings were at least doubled in all three states. Information from the Superintendency for the Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE) shows that between October 1998 and June 2000, total Federal, State and Municipal
expenditures on trucked water (carro pipa) in the ten Northeast states were more than R$65 million or about US$39
million, and US$3.1 million in Sergipe. In addition to tanker-related savings, water supply subprojects reduce
municipality spending on medical supplies and medical care by reducing the incidence of water-borne diseases.
From a fiscal standpoint, ICMS (sales tax) revenues from subprojects are expected to be small because much of the
incremental production is either self-consumed, not liable to taxation, and/or circulates in informal markets where tax
is rarely paid. However, the indirect effects of infrastructure subprojects can be large. Experience under RPAP
showed that there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became
available. This observation is also applicable to purchases of items such as agricultural machinery and irrigation
equipment, although these types of subprojects are not as numerous as electrification.
VI. TECHNICAL EVALUATION
Quality of investments
Technical evaluations conducted by independent consultants have found that works executed under the program were
technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries uniformly expressed their satisfaction with the quality
(good or excellent) of materials used in construction, and regarded more than 90% of all investments as being
satisfactory. This finding was consistent for PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P mechanisms. From 50% to 75% of all
subprojects were considered to be adequately sized to meet beneficiaries' needs, another 13-33% were considered
under-sized, and 2-14% too large (varying according to State).
Cost-effectiveness (see also Annex 5)
In many cases, subproject investments under the Northeast program were substitutes for investments that would



Page 32
normally have been made by Federal, State and Municipal governments. Evaluations show that costs of investments,
implemented by communities under the Northeast program (either directly or contracted) were consistently 30-500/,
lower than costs incurred by public authorities for works of equal or lesser quality. Moreover, costs were lowest
where communities executed subprojects themselves - from 10 to 40% lower than when implemented solely by
contractors they hired. Cost per beneficiary family decreased as communities moved from PAC to FUMAC.
Cost reductions under the program were stimulated by several actions, including: (i) use of standard subproject
models; (ii) more accurate analysis of subproject proposals; (iii) inspection of works during execution; (iv) visits tc
communities prior to the approval of proposals; and (v) provision of training to those involved in carrying out
procurement in the associations. Supervision observations during subproject execution and visits to communities prior
to subproject approval were incorporated into the TUs' work routines. Additionally, standardized subproject designs
and unit costs and procurement-related training on pricing for goods, works and services, facilitated the process of
subproject analysis and execution for the associations, and the work of supervision and monitoring for the TUs and the
Municipal Councils. In general, the program has proved that procurement by community associations can be very
successful and cost effective.
Sustainability (see also Annex 5)
Subproject sustainability was found to be enhanced by a sense of community ownership, by their cofinancing of
subproject costs and by communal responsibility for operation and maintenance of the investment. Recent reviews.
which sampled some 8,000 community subprojects funded from 1995 to 1997/98 found that about 90% of these
subprojects continued to be fully operational. This sustainability did not vary substantially, either in terms ot
subproject completed under the R-NRDP or the RPAP, or across subproject types (i.e., infrastructure, productive.
social). Observations indicate that community associations have generally been able to establish internal rules for
charging user fees, thus ensuring the sustainability of these investments. There are some limited cases, particularly in
subprojects financed under the PAC subprogram, in which beneficiaries, despite having participated in the decision to
select the investment, are not paying regularly user fees. Incentives to minimize such occurrences and more emphasis
on FUMAC and FUMAC-P have been included in the new projects. Due to their relatively small scale, subprojects.
in general, were observed not to have a significant effect of the environment.
VII. INSTITUTIONAL EVALUATION
The Northeast program - a participatory, demand-driven mechanism addressing a large target population - involves
many actors and stakeholders. The institutional analysis, therefore, focuses on the communities themselves as the
cornerstone of the program. In particular, it assesses how the program has served to enhance social capital in
beneficiary communities and municipalities. It will also examine the performance and capacity of community
associations, municipal councils and technical units.
Social Capital
In addition to meeting basic community investment needs, a major achievement of the program to date has been to
foster social capital creation within rural municipalities and communities. Again, program evaluations indicate that
social capital has expanded on two levels under the program: (i) as the program evolved from APCR to R-NRDP and
finally under the RPAP and (ii) as the delivery mechanisms became more decentralized, from PAC to FUMAC to
FUMAC-P. This is because the Municipal councils have served as representative and transparent fora for local
government and coMmunity representatives to discuss and prioritize investment proposals.  By serving as a
participatory means for communities to equitably address their collective needs, the municipal councils have
succeeded in: (i) reducing clientelism and political interference; (ii) strengthening the capacity of both communities
and municipal governments to select, prioritize and implement investment decisions; (iii) creating partnerships
between communities, municipal councils and municipal governments; (iv) increased community voice in the use of
public resources; and (v) fostering citizenship through increased awareness of social responsibilities of citizens, their
representatives and public authorities in community and public matters.
Nearly 1,000 municipalities have established project Municipal councils under the program. Approximately 30% of
these councils (in which community representatives have an 80% majority) have progressed beyond simple subproject



Page 33
decision-making into popular participation fora for municipal planning and allocation of non-project resources - a
telling indication of the gains in social capital at the municipal level. In addition, approximately 25% of community
associations are leveraging social capital acquired under the Program to access other non-RPAP investment financing
previously unavailable. Although intangible and difficult to quantify, there is a palpable difference in self-respect and
confidence in many RPAP communities.
A community participation study (Section III) - an analysis based on a representative sample of 225 community
associations - revealed that from the advent of the R-NRDP (1993) up to the implementation of the RPAP (1998-
2000), social capital accumulation had increased by some 41%." A particularly noteworthy result of this analysis was
that social capital remained constant for the PAC approach, increased some 43% for FUMAC and rose by 76% for
FUMAC-P, clearly demonstrating that empowerment of communities through devolution of decision-making and,
particularly financial management responsibilities, leads to more effective and genuinely demand-driven rural
development. Indeed, one of the most subtle feats of the RPAP has been that gradually all states have become
convinced of the superiority of FUMAC over PAC. Given the continued emphasis on the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subprograms, it is expected that the program's rate of social capital formation will continue to increase. Institutional
sustainability will also be ensured as links are strengthened between Municipal councils, local governments, rural
communities and other external partners, introducing these actors and stakeholders to a new way of doing business.
Community Associations
Field observations, and the community participation study mentioned above, indicate that the community associations
created under the program have generally performed well. Collective responsibilities are typically met by the
members (e.g., appointment of office holders, payment of dues or user fees), particularly in better organized groups.
While there exists the potential for political influence in the organization of these community associations, the
outcome has been generally favorable as mayors, STUs and NGO agents facilitated the spread of information about
the program and provided the conditions necessary for communities to capitalize on program benefits which met their
basic needs. Community association membership was found to be inclusive, with an increasing proportion of women
undertaking leadership functions.  Another important observation has been that subprojects implemented by
associations have tended to benefit entire local communities, and not just association members.
Uniformly across the program, community associations share a common need for technical assistance. Not only is
this essential for the organizational development of newly-formed associations, but it is also needed to assist the
associations during the entire subproject cycle, from preparation to implementation and operation and maintenance of
subprojects. Funds are available under the program for community contracting of technical assistance, supplemented
by similar provision from Municipal councils and the STU.'2  Technical assistance will become increasingly
important as the program expands, and weaker comrnunities not yet participating in the program gradually become
involved. Better access to organizational and management training will also contribute to the sustainability of both
community associations and subprojects.
Municipal Councils
Since the advent of the R-NRDP, the formation of Municipal councils - both FUMAC and FUMAC-P - has been an
important contribution of the Northeast program. Evaluations indicate that these councils, as fora of democratic
discussion, have (i) increased transparency, (ii) reduced political interference, (iii) improved targeting, and (iv)
contributed significantly to social capital formation in rural communities.   Furthermore, FUMAC-P councils
performed even better than FUMAC councils, confirming the benefit of increased decentralization in program
delivery. The setting of budget envelopes for the Municipal councils (under FUMAC-P) makes for more realistic
priority-setting than in respective FUMACs, contributing to an increased capacity by communities in these councils to
identify, plan and implement subprojects. These stronger FUMAC-P councils also were even more effective catalysts
for increasing community organization and thus social capital.
" Van Zyl, Sonn, Costa (FAO/CP evaluation): Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil (July 2000). Measurements were based on a compound index developed for the program, and
referred to as the social capital index (CPI).
1' Typically, up to 8% of total subproject cost can be earmarked for community contracting of technical assistance



Page 34
Experience on the ground shows that Municipal councils are becoming an integral part of local government planning
processes, indicating that the initial risk of FUMAC and FUMAC-P councils being parallel structures to local
governments (with a life span tied to the program) is actually being overcome. Councils are increasingly being
recognized by both the local population and their elected mayors as valid representatives of communities and civil
society, and as able partners of local administrations in fostering and sustaining municipal development. '3
Obviously, progress has been faster in some states (e.g., Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia, Piaui and Sergipe), but even in
the other Northeastern states, both FUMAC and, in particular, FUMAC-P are slowly but firmly taking hold.'4  In
approximately 30% of the councils, decisions are made not just on program-related allocations, but also on priorities
for local municipal resources. If carefully nurtured, not only with the right mix of technical assistance and funding
support but also by insisting that clear and transparent rules continue to apply to the functioning of the Councils, this
model may well become one of the most valuable and durable institutions for rural development in the Northeast.
Over the course of program implementation, both the State Governments and the Bank have monitored the progress of
the Municipal councils and, as a result, have introduced a series of adjustments to improve their performance and to
increase their ability to generate social capital. Among these adjustments are: (i) increases in the relative number of
community representatives on the Councils and continued diversification of council membership; (ii) expansion of the
FUMAC-P experience; (iii) provision of more effective training and orientation for Municipal council members; (iv)
increased responsibilities of Municipal councils to expand their role in providing technical assistance and support to
communities; and (v) advice to councils on other sources of funds, including credit, to meet other community
interests. Municipal councils are being encouraged to take a wider view of municipal development, to define criteria
for community graduation and to assume the political and social burden for prioritizing community proposals. The
councils have also been endowed with more secure sources of revenue for their operation, so that they can accomplish
their tasks without total dependence on municipal resources. Community associations have been made aware of their
responsibility to help in sustaining and guaranteeing the independence of their Municipal council. Finally, analysis
suggests that the conditions whereby the councils can improve their performance include: (i) political inclusiveness,
(ii) stronger community representation and (iii) awareness of the relative scarcity of resources.
Technical Units
Throughout its history, the Northeast program has been administered in each state by a Project Technical Unit (STU)
which in eight Northeast states is under the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN).15 The STUs are the vehicle for
project administration and for communication with the Bank and the State Government. It is also the project's main
liaison with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and, in PAC municipalities, with the community
associations. The institutional set-up and performance of the STUs across the Northeast states is diverse and varied.
In general, all the STUs show satisfactory levels of technical capacity, and have received adequate levels of technical
assistance and training from contracted/external providers such as Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacao para a
Agricultura (IICA). Increasing decentralization, partnerships with public and private entities, and the build-up of both
capacity and social capital in rural communities and their Municipal councils have allowed both communities and
councils to assume greater responsibilities - including for supervision, monitoring and training -and thus imply a
potentially much smaller role for the STUs in the future. With few exceptions, the STUs have benefited from the
commitment and budgetary support of State governments: sound disbursement performance has been a notable feature
of the RPAPs. STUs have, for the most part, implemented their functions efficiently, with few bureaucratic
bottlenecks. The STUs' performance in the execution of training activities for associations and FUMAC and
FUMAC-P councils, is considered satisfactory. Under the new projects, this function will be improved, and training
made more relevant and timely, by increasingly devolving these responsibilities to Municipal councils.
The extent to which individual STUs are collaborating with public and private entities to leverage better project
implementation is again variable. Most of the STUs have formed strong relationships with the State leadership, with
the FUMAC and FUMAC-P councils and with municipal mayors. While there is widespread and active participation
" As frequently observed in the field, the most insightful mayors (prefeitos) have now begun to understand that working in alliance with
communities and Councils, in addition to the gains mentioned here, also makes good political sense.
" While Alagoas did not participate in the RPAP phase of the Northeast program, the state nonetheless has fostered a similar model on the basis of
the R-NRDP - Municipal Councils for Sustainable Development - that has much in common with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P models.
'5 In the case of Ceara, the STU is under the State Secretariat for Rural Development (SDR). In Alagoas, the STU is locatedwithin the State
Secretariat of Agriculture, Supply and Fisheries



Page 35
from rural workers' unions in community mobilization, organization and other activities, formnal NGO participation in
the implementation has been relatively modest. The notable exception is Rio Grande do Norte, where the economic
and social benefits of active, dynamic NGO involvement are clear and measurable. This situation is changing
however, and STUs are proactively seeking greater involvement and participation of NGOs.
World Bank Recife Office
The World Bank Office in Recife is fundamental to the coordination and supervision of the RPAPs and comprises
three task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeast states. By delegating supervision activities
to this local office (including procurement reviews and field visits), Bank support is better tailored to the decentralized
structure of the Northeast program. In terms of supervision, the Recife office will continue to play a similar role as in
the past. In addition, the Bank will undertake, as part of its strategic updating of all work in Northeast Brazil, a yearly
review of how the implementation of the RPRP program is contributing to integrate broader issues of poverty
reduction in the Northeast.
VIII.  LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROPOSED PROJECT DESIGN
*  Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation from federal to state and local
governments, to community organizations, ensures efficient program administration and superior outcomes.
Experience shows that decentralized community-driven approaches reduce bureaucracy, eliminate
administrative bottlenecks and reinforce accountability for project performance by placing decision-makers
near beneficiaries. Under the new project the existing, decentralized institutional structure will be further
devolved, with increased delegation of duties to Municipal Councils and greater utilization of STU regional
offices to promote more responsive and local level monitoring, data collection, coordination, and supervision.
* Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects has ensured
that investments meet genuine community needs, led to cost savings, and has increased community
'ownership' leading to improved sustainability of investments. This methodology will be continued under
the new project.
*  Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria, can foster
transparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project resources
reach the poorest areas. Poverty targeting mechanisms under the RPAP to date have been notably effective in
reaching the poorest rural populations in the Northeast. About 84% of the program's beneficiary population
are small farmers and rural laborers living in remote, low density areas with acute deficiencies in access to
basic infrastructure and services. A significant additional population resides in rural areas directly adjacent to
the urban periphery of municipal centers, where headcount poverty measures are lowest. Experience with
project Municipal Councils demonstrates that communities themselves are the best-positioned and informed
to target effectively. Under the new project, broad targeting will be undertaken (i) at the municipal level, with
indicative budgets assigned to each Municipal Council, differentiated according to poverty indices; and (ii) at
the community- level, by the Municipal Councils. Communities which improve their relative socioeconomic
conditions significantly through project investments would be encouraged to seek non-project financing to
meet development needs. In field observations of RPAP, Municipal Councils were found to already be
following this practice, either (i) reducing priority ranking and/or (ii) excluding requests from those
communities that had already received several subprojects.
*  Supervision has been found to be an indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. It needs to be
reinforced at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities, particularly Municipal Councils
and NGOs. Under the new project supervision responsibilities will be increasingly devolved to MCs, who
will be supported with training and technical assistance. Measures will also be taken to modernize all
Councils, gradually providing computers and information technology to all of them.
*  A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides
feedback and necessary information to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and
planning tool. Under the new project important revisions will be undertaken to strengthen the MIS (Section



Page 36
C.4 under "Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements') to improve real time monitoring of the entire project
cycle. A more comprehensive impact evaluation component will also be introduced to measure income,
welfare and social capital gains.
*  Dissemination of "best practices", such as experiences with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte, EMATERCE in
Ceara, FUMAC Councils in Bahia and Sergipe, and FUMAC-P in Pemambuco can hasten learning and
reward innovation. Under the new project, exchanges between states, municipalities and communities will
be expanded further, using more frequent training seminars, and workshops.
*  Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject
preparation and evaluation process, improves the quality of subprojects, facilitates the procurement of goods
and works, prevents over-design and enables participation by poorer communities. The existing database of
standard designs and documentation have been reviewed, technically updated where necessary, and further
expanded for the new project.
*  Environmental protection criteria:  Experience demonstrates, that because of their small scale, most
subprojects do not have a significant effect on the environment. Nevertheless, the detailed environmental
checklist developed under RPAP will be maintained and has been updated for the proposed project. Where
environmental issues are a concern, standard subproject designs have been developed and will continue to be
used by communities and MCs during subproject implementation. Further, an environmental specialist will
be maintained at the STU to provide additional technical assistance on environmental matters as well as
provide training to increase environmental awareness of MCs and community groups.
*  Technical assistance enhances the ability of community associations and MCs to identify, prepare and
implement subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical
assistance needs to be targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and financial
capacity to participate in the project. Locating and/or developing sources of technical assistance in rural
areas requires significant attention and needs to be monitored at the local level. Under the new project,
increased attention will be placed on training at the community level - funds will be made available for the
appointment of 'technical advisors' to be recruited by each municipal council. These advisors will be
responsible for managing and coordinating local technical and training needs. Increasing efforts will also be
placed on more meaningful involvement of civil society (e.g., NGOs and other civil and church groups) -
particularly with respect to increasing the flow of information, mobilizing the poorest groups and supporting
training activities at the community level.
* A system of checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, is essential to ensure proper use of
funds and sound targeting of resources. Rules and procedures for such a system, including guidelines for
performance incentives and penalties, have been reviewed and updated and are detailed in the Project
Operational Manual. Performance incentives will include promoting better-performing FUMAC Councils to
FUMAC-P; increasing Councils' indicative budget envelope; increasing the number of investments or
investment volume permitted to a community association; or incentives for environmental or technologically
innovative investments. Penalties would attach to cases of mis-management and diversion of funds and
include removal from eligibility to participate, reduced availability of funds, demotion from FUMAC-P to
FUMAC, and/or judicial penalties where appropriate. In addition to penalties, Municipal Councils include
participation of local NGOs (i.e., Rural Workers' Union, the Church), representatives of public ministries and
municipal officials, and Council meetings are publicly announced and open to broad participation. Finally,
the project is installing computers in the Councils, whose role will be to publicize Council decisions on their
own and the Technical Unit's webpage. All of the above are designed to boost and institutionalize
transparency.
*  Minimize use of the PAC approach, particularly since the FUMAC and FUMAC-P sub-components have
clear advantages with respect to targeting, sustainability and social capital formation in poor rural
communities. Under the new project, PAC expenditure will not exceed 10% of total community subproject
investrnents.



Page 37
*   Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and
supervision criteria. Under the new project, a 'one-shot' matching grant will be provided to eligible
productive investments that (i) provide services for a large number of community members; (ii) whose
collective use is regulated by strict operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); and (iii) for which operation
and maintenance is assured by charging adequate user fees to both association members and non-members.
Revised procedures for productive subprojects are outlined in the new Project Operational Manual, as are
arrangements to facilitate access to formal credit by graduating communities.
*   Broaden role of municipal councils in local planning, by promoting greater integration between local
govermnents and project municipal councils, and providing information to councils on other programs and
alternative sources of grant and credit financing. Field observations indicate that over 30% of project
Municipal Councils already participate in some prioritization of other (non-project) resources. If carefully
nurtured, not only with the right mix of technical assistance, information and funding support, but also by
insisting that clear and transparent rules continue to apply to the functioning of the Councils, this democratic
forum may well become one of the most valuable and durable institutions for rural development in the
Northeast.
Table A: Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAP) - Loan and Disbursement Data]
Loan Data
Project    Loan      Loan       Total      Disbursed    Disbursed for   Disbursed for
State               total cost  amount  (% project  disbursed   (% total loan)   subprojects  subproject
(USS      (USS      cost)  (USS million)               (USS million)2    (%total
million)   million)                                                     disbursed)2
1.  Bahia                          163.4      105.0     64.3       103.3         98.4          92.8           91.7
2.  Ceara                           99.6       70.0      70.3       70.0         100.0         64.5            94.7
3.  Maranhao                        106.9      80.0      74.8       64.2         80.3          54.6            92.6
4.  Paraiba                         79.5       60.0      75.5       27.5         45.8          22.2            94.7
5.  Pemambuco                       51.2       39.0      76.2       33.2         85.2          23.4            77.5
6.  Piaui                           39.7       30.0      75.5       27.7         92.4          22.2            88.1
7.  Rio Grande do Norte             31.6       24.0      75.9       20.2         84.1           15.8           85.1
8.  Sergipe                         53.3       36.0      67.6       36.0         100.0         33.4            93.9
Total                              625.2      444.0      71.0      382.1         86.1          328.9          91.0
' As of April 2001
'Aggregate disbursements for community subprojects under the RPAP, R-NRDP and the pilot community-based pilot
of the NRDP (APCR) totaled US$738.0 million as of April 2001 and correspond to total investment in community
subprojects of US$903.2 million.
3Excluding disbursements made to special accounts. Including technical assistance this figure increases to over 95%.



Page 38
Table B: Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAP) - Number of Community Subprojects Financed
Number of Sub projects Financed
State                      Total2          PA               FUMAC            FUMAC-P
#   %         #%                #      X/
1. Bahia                                       6,541      2,624    40.1      3,278     50.1   639    9.8
2. Ceara                                       2,932       958     32.7      1,964      67.0    10     C.3
3. Maranhao                                    3,130      1,276    40.8      1,854      59.2     0     0.0
4. Paraiba                                     1,800      1,525    84.7       261       14.5    14     0.8
5. Pernambuco                                  1,356       436     32.2       876       64.6    44     3.2
6. Piaui                                       1,015       387     38.1       628       61.9     0     0.0
7. Rio Grande do Norte                         1,250       55       4.4      1,056      84.5   139    11.1
8. Sergipe                                     1,747       343      19.6     1,255      71.8   149    8.5
Total                                         19,771      7,604    38.5      11,172     56.5   995    5.0
As of April 2001.
2 An additional 30,350 community subprojects were financed under the R-NRDP and the community-based component of
the NRDP (APCR).
Table C: Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAP) - Number of Community Subprojects, by Type'
}   State      [ TOTALH         Infrastructure2          Productive2               Social2
I. Bahia                    6,541       4,772        73.0       1,708        26.1        61          0.9
2.  Ceara                   2,932       2,247        76.6        651         22.2         34          1.2
3. Maranhao                 3,130       2,400        76.7        439         14.0        291         9.3
4. Paraiba                   1,800       1,783       99.1         11         0.6          6          0.3
5. Pemambuco                 1,356       936         69.0        323         23.8         97         7.2
6. Piaui                     1,015       763         75.2        125         12.3        127         12.5
7. Rio Grande do Norte       1,250       731         58.5        503         40.2         16          1.3
8. Sergipe                   1,747      1,460        83.6        188         10.8         99         5.7
Total                       19,771      15,092       76.3       3,948        20.0        731         3.7
'As of April 2001.
2 The composition of investments (infrastructure, productive and social) is very similar under the R-NRDP.



Page 39
Table D: Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects - Average Cost per Community Subproject'
State                             Average cost per subproject
State                           ~~~~~~~~(US$)
PAC    FUMAC    FUMAC-P   TOTAL2
1. Bahia                                25,101       23,825           16,014        21,434
2. Ceara                                32,141       27,408           31,300        31,497
3. Maranhao                             25,965       22,641                         23,131
4. Paraiba                              21,776        19,203          22,500        16,444
5. Pemambuco                            27,467       22,374            7,727        23,009
6. Piaui                                31,127       27,218                         28,946
7. Rio Grande do Norte                  22,693        16,147          14,415        16,853
8.  Sergipe                             35,697,      27,712           25,718        27,312
Total                                   26,369       23,938           17,122        23,464
' As of April 2001.
2Average cost per community subproject, including R-NRDP and the community-based pilot of the NRDP (APCR) is US$17,875;
the weighted average for the APCR,R-NRDP and the RPAP is US$19,000.



Page 40
Table E: Northeast Poverty Alleviation Projects: Number of Municipalities Reached,
Councils Formed and Community Associations Benefited
State             Municipalities   FUMAC   FUMAC-P  Total Assoc2
reached
1. Bahia                           374            331         38        369   3,558
2.  Ceara                           176           137          5        142   2,192
3.  Maranhao                        200           137          0        137   2,246
. Paraiba                         214            42           2         44    1,693
5.  Pernambuco                      171           80           2         82    1,111
6.  Piaui                           197           119          1        120    795
7.  Rio Grande do Norte             125           62           10        72    1,075
8.  Sergipe                         71            57           11        68    872
Total                              1,528          965          69      1,034  13,542
As of April 2001.
2 # of community associations with subprojects financed.
Table F: Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects - Number of Beneficiaries and Cost per Family'
State                     Beneficiary              Cost per beneficiary family
State                    Families (#)2       PAC    FUMAC          FUMAC-P    All
1.  Bahia                                      444,125      174       196            191       186
2. Ceara                                       147,833      539       458           441        482
3. Maranhao                                    150,742      385       320             -        346
4. Paraiba                                      78,895      480       368            235       454
5.  Pemambuco                                   96,276      216       126            171       324
6.  Piaui                                       62,671      351       370             -        362
7.  Rio Grande do Norte                         67,076      265       260            293       263
8.  Sergipe                                     59,348      344       440            628       421
,Total                                        1,106,966      279       265           242        289
'As of April 2001.
XNet of repeater families within RPAP projects. Considering the number of RPAP families (withoutrepetition)
which also benefited from the R-NRDP and the pilot community-based component of the NRDP (APCR), the RPAP benefited
some 720,000 additional families. The aggregate nun-ber of families reached (without repetition) for the combined
RPAP, R-NRDP and the APCR is just over 1.7 million, or about 7.5 million people.



Page 41
Table G: Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAP) - Distribution of Funded Subprojects, by Category'
TOTAL RPAP, R-
Category                 FUMAC                  PAC                FUMAC-P           TOTAL RPAP         NRDP, APRC
1. Water supply                3,209      28.7      2,217      29.2       381        38.3     5,807     29.4       9,751    19.50/
2. Rural Electrification       3,041      27.2      2,355       31.0       223       22.4      5,619    28.4       10,620    21.20/
3. RuralAccess Roads Rehab.     827        7.4       541        7.1        19         1.9      1,387     7.0        3,366     6.70/
4. Farm Tractor                 629        5.6       335        4.4        58         5.8      1,022     5.2        2,094     4.20/
5. Small Bridge                325        2.9        260        3.4        14         1.4      599       3.0       2,560      5.10/
6. Manioc Mill                 251        2.2        194        2.6        40         4.0      485       2.5        4,122     8.20/
7. Comm. Telephone              99        0.9        319        4.2        36         3.6      454       2.3         454      0.90/
8. Septic Systems              255        2.3         84        1.1        21        2.1       360       1.8        2,445     4.90/
9. SmallAnimal                 247         2.2        49        0.6        19         1.9       315      1.6         315      0.60/
10. Irrigation                  196       1.8        52         0.7        19         1.9      267       1.4         588      1.20/
SUBTOTAL                       9,079      81.3      6,406       84.2       830       83.4     16,315    82.5       36,315    72.5%
ALL OTHERS                     2,093      18.7      1,198       15.8       165       16.6      3,456     17.5      13,786    27.50/
TOTAL                         11,172      100.0     7,604      100.0      995        100.0    19,771    100.0      50,101   100.0%
As of April 2001.



Page 42
Annex 3
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Detailed Project Description
Project Component A - Community Subprojects (US$25.0 million or 89.2% of total project costs):
The project would provide matching grants directly to rural community associations to finance priority, small-scale
investments identified by community groups (up to US$50,000 each).  It is expected that approximately 1,000
subprojects will be financed under this component. This will comprise a broad range of subproject investments
including infrastructure (e.g. rural electrification, local road improvements and water supply), social investments
(e.g., health-related house improvement, day care centers, school or health post rehabilitation) and productive
subprojects (such as small-scale community agro-processing, communal tractors and minor irrigation schemes).
Subproject selection shall be demand-driven, however an indicative breakdown of investment types, based on
historical program data in the state suggest approximately 60% of financing shall be used for infrastructure, 20% for
productive investments and 20% for social activities.
Subproject proposals for all forms of investment would observe standard procedures, documentation and technical,
economic, environmental and sustainability criteria as set forth in a detailed Project Operational Manual. This
Operational Manual incorporates modifications, reflecting the lessons learned during the implementation of the
Rural Poverty Alleviation Project-Sergipe (Loan 3919-BR). A short negative list' of subproject types ineligible for
financing will be enforced, with particular emphasis on the application of rigorous eligibility criteria for productive
subprojects to ensure proper targeting, and financial sustainability of this form of investment2, also to be included in
the Project Operational Manual. During negotiations, the Bank reviewed a complete revised draft of the Operational
Manual, and assurances were provided by the Borrower that all project components and subprojects would be
executed in accordance with this Manual. Adoption of this modified Operational Manual is a condition of loan
effectiveness.
The identification, preparation and implementation of all subprojects financed under the project will be the
responsibility of the beneficiary rural communities. Three different delivery mechanisms - incorporating increasing
degrees of decentralization - distinguish how the subprojects are approved and financed:
*   State Community Schemes (PAC). Under the PAC subprogram, rural communities submit their investment
proposals directly to the State Technical Unit (STU), which screens and approves them and releases funds to the
beneficiary associations. Whereas this was the predominant arrangement under the earlier R-NRDP projects, it
has receded in importance as decentralization from the State to local levels has progressed. At the start of the
RPAP projects, it was expected that about one-third of community proposals would be processed under the
PAC, but the actual share decreased steadily during implementation, in favor of the other two modalities
described below. Under the proposed new RPRP project for Sergipe, the PAC will be retained as an option to
which communities may occasionally resort in cases where Municipal Councils are not functioning properly,
but it is expected to account for no more than 5% (US$ 1.25 million) of total community subproject component
costs.
*   Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). Under this subprogram, decision-making on investment proposals
is delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, composed of community members and representatives
of civil society and municipal authorities. At least 80 percent of Council voting members are potential project
beneficiaries and representatives of civil society. The Municipal Councils discuss, seek to build consensus on
priorities and approve community proposals, in the context of an indicative annual budget amount determined
by the state. After the Councils' recommendations are reviewed by the STU for consistency with guidelines in
Those subprojects ineligible for funding include production of alcohol, tobacco and drugs, churches, and facilities for political activities.
2 Eligible productive subprojects would be those which provide services which benefit a large number of community members and for whidi a
fee is charged for operation and maintenance. Productive subprojects, as with infrastructure and social subprojects, must be property of the
association as a whole and not of select members. For each type of prodictive subproject, a set of operational guidelines (regulamento de uso),
developed by the STU, would be providedto the association for adoption. In addition, each subproject proposal must identify the source of
technical assistance for subproject implementation and subsequent operation.



Page 43
the project Operational Manual, funds are disbursed directly to the community associations. This became the
dominant subprogram under the RPAP and will remain so under the RPRP, accounting for about 80% (US$20.0
million) of total community subproject component costs.
* Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). The FUMAC-P is a more decentralized variant of FUMAC
and was piloted under the RPAP with high-performing Municipal Councils. The STU establishes an annual
budget envelope, according to a distribution formula based on clear and measurable criteria (rural population,
poverty levels and previous year's performance). Based on this budget, Municipal Councils submit an Annual
Operating Plan (Plano Operativo Anual) for STU review. Upon approval, funds are transferred to the Council,
which is then responsible for managing their distribution to community associations and assisting them with
implementation of subprojects. Although FUMAC-P was initially expected to account for only about 12% of
community investments under the RPAP, it quickly grew in popularity and more Municipal Councils proved
capable of taking it on than originally anticipated.  It is expected that under the new RPRP project, 15%
(US$3.75 million) of total community subproject component costs would be carried out under the FUMAC-P
subprogram.
Promotion. Each subcomponent described above (i.e. PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P) represents a greater degree
of decentralization of decision-making and resource allocation responsibilities. As groups of communities become
more organized they are 'promoted' from PAC to FUMAC to FUMAC-P, gradually gaining greater control over
investment planning that goes beyond their specific community subproject. Communities with limited capacity,
and/or those communities that reside within municipalities that lack either the capacity, or political will, to adopt
FUMAC or FUMAC-P approaches, may choose to enter the program through PAC. Other communities/
municipalities that are better organized, and/or have had experience with PAC, and are receptive to participatory
decision-making processes, enter FUMAC. A Municipal Council is formed and resource allocation decisions start
being made at the local level.3 Once the Municipal Council demonstrates effectiveness in prioritization of demands
and subproject supervision and a capacity to manage resources, the municipality is promoted from FUMAC to
FUMAC-P, and henceforth the actual resources are administered at the local level by the Municipal Council based
on locally-determined investment planning. This institutionalization of the participatory process has been shown to
protect MCs from political fluctuation, and eventually leads to stronger partnerships between communities, their
Municipal Councils and their respective municipal governments in determining the use of public resources.
Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the RPAP, it is expected that the need for the PAC
subcomponent would diminish over the course of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subcomponents gradually expanding. The existence of PAC is continued only to facilitate participation in the
project of those communities within weaker municipalities which have failed to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P
approach. Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents to accommodate the
expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P as implementation proceeds.
Graduation. Most of the investments requested by communities in the past (around 77%) comprised infrastructure
subprojects for the program overall in all states. However, since the rural poor are generally out of the radar screen
of any formal credit institution in the rural Northeast, particularly as individuals, project matching grants for
productive investments and technical assistance can be catalytic by encouraging the formation of groups, providing
some experience in the management of financial assets and income-eaming activities, and thus making them more
attractive to financial institutions. Therefore, communities that presently lack access to formal credit can qualify for
one grant-based productive subproject, after which they will be graduated from such support, (under the R-NRDP
and RPAP there were no limits, although as a practical matter the MCs have tended to limit communities to an
average two subprojects of any kind, in order to ration scarce resources). At the same time, a major effort will be
made to link communities graduating from productive projects, to possible sources of formal credit. In particular,
the Bank of the Northeast (BN) has increasingly been seeking organized communities to which it can provide group
credit. BN and the RPAPs have already partnered in some places, albeit in an ad hoc manner - but there is now
enough positive experience that the state of Sergipe and BN are interested in taking the cooperation to another level.
Therefore, agreements have been reached on information sharing and coordination, which will be detailed in. the
3Under the RPAP in Sergipe, 68 FUMAC Municipal Councils were formed, of which 11 are FUMAC-P. Five of these FUMAC-P Councils
will continue under the proposed project, with additional Councils being upgraded to FUMAC-P from the existing FUMAC. Three new FUMAC
Councils will be added.



Page 44
project Operational Manual: (a) BN will have access to relevant information from the project MIS about group
credit candidates, which it will pass on to its units in charge of credit lines and government programs in which it
participates; (b) BN's local development agents will be invited to attend Municipal Council meetings; and (c) BN
will provide Sergipe with feedback on project-graduated groups to which it has extended credit, for use in project
monitoring and evaluation. BN has also undertaken to expand its testing of the Bank-financed CrediAmigo micro-
credit program into rural areas.
With regard to community infrastructure and social subprojects, graduation considerations are different. Most of
these subprojects are in the realm of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments), and
the definition of the minimum acceptable level of such services necessarily varies over time. Grant-based support is
provided because of the poverty targeting under the project. The R-NRDPs and RPAPs demonstrated that the CDD
approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work, in a cost effective manner and
on a large scale, while also having important impacts in terms of social capital formation and improved local
governance. Many project Municipal Councils have thus far limited communities to one or two subprojects, to
ensure equity in access to scarce resources.  Under the proposed project in Sergipe (both the initial and second
phases), the state intends to expand the coverage of the CDD approach, and to encourage project Municipal
Councils to proactively seek new sources of funding, and to engage in priority-setting and decision-making over a
much wider range of activities, with a view to improving the effectiveness of local governments and the integration
and overall impact of public resources directed towards rural poverty reduction.
Targeting. The beneficiaries of RPRP are the poorest rural communities in the 71 municipalities of the project area
(in which 90% of the municipalities have a low Human Development Index (HDI) of less than 0.4).4 The poorest 35
municipalities (i.e., with the lowest relative HDI ranking), will receive total indicative budgets of R$34.12 million
(averaging R$244,000 per municipality, per year). For the other 36 municipalities, a total indicative budget of
R$18.38 million will be allocated, averaging R$128,000 per municipality per year (see Table A for key features of
priority municipalities). At the community level however, the principal mechanism for targeting is community-
based - it relies on the Municipal Councils' prioritization process to allow community themselves (through their
majority representation on these councils) to determine where project resources will be best applied based on their
first-hand knowledge of community socioeconomic conditions and local investment needs. The effectiveness of this
methodology will be assured by the establishment of clear and transparent rules and procedures for the Councils'
functioning. Increased decentralization of subproject selection through the expanded FUMAC and FUMAC-P
programs is expected to further strengthen the project's capacity to reach the most needy communities in the project
area. Continual implementation and revision of the information campaign for the project will also be used to expand
opportunities for participation of the poorest communities in the target area. This information on project eligibility
and procedures will be targeted to potential beneficiary communities to create a level playing field for access to
project funds and to stimulate demand from potential beneficiaries across the state. Some communities already have
significant levels of organization, either traditionally or from previous development projects in the area, and are
poised to benefit immediately from the project. However, for those less organized communities, the project, through
its institutional development component, would actively extend mobilization assistance through the services of
NGOs or accredited agents who know the communities well and can serve as catalysts for organization (refer
component B described below).
In order to be eligible to receive funding under the project - in compliance with Brazilian Law - beneficiaries must
form  legally-constituted civil associations (or 'community associations').  Disbursements to the beneficiary
associations would occur through agreements (convenios) with the STU and/or project Municipal Councils, as per
model agreements developed under RPAP. These agreements have been updated and included in the revised
Operational Manual for the new project. Beneficiary associations will be required to contribute to subproject costs,
either in cash, kind or labor, and will be responsible for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the investments.
The minimum level of contributions expected from the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government is
specified in a cost-sharing matrix detailed in the Project Operational Manual.
4 United Nations Human Development Index, a composite index which measures economic and social development. For more informaticn on
HDI ranking of municipalities, see Table A.



Page 45
Project Component B - Institutional Development (US$1.5 million or 5.4% of total project costs):
The Institutional Development component will finance technical assistance and training, sufficient for each group
participating in project implementation to acquire the capabilities needed to effectively carry out its responsibilities.
This component will also finance the contracting of consultants and other entities to assist the STU in monitoring,
supervision and evaluation tasks, and will provide technical assistance services to support State level modernization
and reform. This project component will also support ongoing, successful piloting of the use of information
technology by community associations and MCs to increase transparency by making available, in real time,
information about the program itself, as well as using the internet to connect communities directly to markets, both
in Brazil and internationally.
Using the demand-driven implementation mechanisms described in Component A, the project consolidates
participatory institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels. In this process, well-organized
communities with sound, carefully prepared proposals are provided with financial support for investments, and
likewise, FUMAC Municipal Councils which demonstrate effective decision-making capacity are promoted to
FUMAC-P and rewarded with their own investment budget.
To encourage this process and reinforce the decentralized implementation framework, technical assistance and
training will be provided for community associations, Municipal Councils, and the STU, as well as other entities
participating in the project. Types of training and assistance will include support to communities in organization,
subproject preparation and execution, as well as operation and maintenance techniques. Assistance will be provided
to MCs to improve decision-making capacities, and to create capacity for investment planning and financial
administration. At the STU level training will also be provided to enhance project coordination and supervision
skills. Also, because the fiscal situation of the State affects both project implementation and state counterpart
funding, technical assistance will be provided at the state level to analyze issues surrounding the reform of the State
and to identify measures to improve the State's capacity to address the inherent causes of its fiscal situation. The
instruments for achieving these various forms of capacity building will include a combination of workshops,
technical exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional technical assistance, drawing upon local expertise within
the state - technical consultants, universities, NGOs, and other local service providers-- as well as national and
international technical assistance agencies. To this effect, the component would finance consultant services, training
materials and courses, seminars, workshops, related studies and related operational costs.
The implementation of the institutional development component would be decentralized, and the provision of and
accountability for technical assistance and training would occur increasingly at the local level. In particular, project
Municipal Councils will play a critical role in overseeing the capacity-building activities for community associations
in their jurisdictions. . Technical assistance will increasingly be provided by MCs, and a local technical advisor
(known as agente de mudanca in Sergipe) will be competitively recruited for this purpose under the new project.
Municipal Councils, provided with model terms of reference prepared by the STU, will contract technical assistance
based on programs agreed with the STU, and then release funds for that purpose. Institutional development
activities can be broadly categorized into five areas:
a) mobilization assistance and training for participating communities. Assistance would be organized and
contracted by the STU and Municipal councils, to support the organization and strengthening of community
associations, identification of viable investments, subproject preparation, and operation and maintenance of
investments;
b) capacity-building programs for Community Associations and Municipal Councils. Organized by the STU,
these programs will include intensive training on the role of Municipal Councils, explanation of Operational
Manual guidelines, techniques for subproject evaluation and supervision, as well as related topics such as
environmental assessment of subprojects, participatory planning and financial management. Under the new
project all MCs and community associations, with approved subprojects, will be required to participate in
mandatory 'introductory training' covering the above-mentioned topics. In addition, all MCs will be gradually
equipped with computers to assist them in performing their expanding functions;
c) specialized skills training for all participating entities. Based on needs, local providers would be contracted by
the STU, Municipal Councils and groups of community associations to provide expert advice and "on-the-job



Page 46
training", in areas such as investment-related technical support, the use of standard designs, monitoring
techniques, and financial management;
d) technical assistance for State reform. The Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLAN), will
have access, through the STU, to technical assistance funds for consultant services, studies and training required
for administrative and other reforms aimed at modernization of the State. During project preparation,
agreements were reached with the State on the content and implementation arrangements for this Technical
Assistance subcomponent, to which it was agreed to dedicate US$0.2 million; and
e) workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, to exchange experience
under the project. These "best practice" exchanges may also extend to seminars to forge links between all
STUs of the ten Northeastern states, and to disseminate successful experiences across states.
Project Component C - Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.5 million or 5.4% of total project cost):
This component would support overall project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the
effectiveness and quality of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the STU
(excluding salaries), which is responsible for overall coordination of project activities in partnership with
community associations and with FUMAC and FUMAC-P municipal councils. As part of its duties, the STU will
conduct an ongoing statewide information campaign to continuously disseminate information about the project and
its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities, thereby increasing awareness, transparency and participation
in the program. For this campaign, the project would finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and
development of the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including appropriate, simplified posters, leaflets,
radio spots and videos. The preparation of a statewide information campaign, acceptable to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Given the importance of supervision to the overall impact of the program, project supervision will be intensified
under the project and, accordingly, and half of its cost will be financed under this component. Project supervision
will provide the STU with the necessary information on project performance to make managerial decisions, such as
the provision of technical assistance or training, the correction of departures from project guidelines, and the
promotion of project municipalities from FUMAC to FUMAC-P. In line with the increasing emphasis on
decentralization under the new project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the local level will be
increasingly devolved to MCs with the STU focusing on supervision of the MCs, 'spot-checks' of community
associations to verify performance, and overall project coordination.  Supervision activities to be financed under
the project include operational expenses for field visits and subcontracted services from NGOs and other
participating agencies.
This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system, including the maintenance and use of
a Management Information System (MIS). To function as an efficient management tool, the project MIS, originally
designed under the NRDP, would be improved and made more user-friendly and performance-oriented. The MIS
would be expanded to contain key technical, financial and socio-economic information on subprojects (planned and
actual), as well as cost and other physical indicators, and quantitative variables for impact monitoring. MIS-
generated project reports, including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual progress reports, would facilitate
subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project performance. Project performance and impact
indicators would be regularly updated to take stock of project implementation and will be included in the semi-
annual progress reports. A Project Implementation Plan and a matrix of Project Performance Indicators were
finalized and agreed during project preparation. This component would finance operating costs for monitoring
activities, as well as finance experts in information technology and project management: (a) to improve the MIS;
and (b) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical parameters from the most frequently approved
types of subprojects, so as to calculate a range of values for these indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility
criteria accordingly. These adjustments are incorporated into the updated Project Operational Manual.
Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement studies to evaluate the impact of the
subprojects and provide feedback to improve project operations, including the following: (a) annual physical
performance reviews, to assess the quality and sustainability of common types of subprojects financed by the
project, including reviews of community-based procurement; (b) an implementation review, carried out at the mid-



Page 47
term, to include beneficiary consultations so as to generate an evaluation of project performance and impact as
perceived by the ultimate beneficiaries; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline
evaluation to establish indicators of socio-economic impact and a follow-on final evaluation of the project using
these indicators to measure (i) aggregate project impact on social indicators; (ii) costibenefit of demand driven vs
conventional approaches to rural development and (iii) restudy household included in RPAP Mid Term Review.
During project preparation, an execution chronogram was agreed. Terms of Reference for the aforementioned
baseline study and an overall evaluation framework, both acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
Project Coordination: The State Technical Unit (PRONESE) will be responsible for overall project coordination,
with the following specific duties: (a) to appraise community subproject proposals for compliance with project
guidelines and eligibility criteria found in the Project Operational Manual; (b) to assess community participation in
identifying, preparing and executing subprojects and quality of technical assistance; (c) to supervise the Municipal
Councils to ensure they are adequately managing quality of subproject implementation and providing sufficient
training support to communities; (d) to implement public information campaigns to disseminate information about
the project; (e) to implement introductory training and technical assistance programs for all municipal councils and
community associations with approved subprojects (to include training on subproject implementation, contracting,
operation and maintenance and financial management); (f) to monitor and apply performance incentives to reward
efficiency, transparency and inclusiveness of community associations and municipal councils, and also to penalize
poor performance/misappropriation (e.g., legal action for fund misallocation)5; (g) to monitor project performance
through the Management Information System (MIS) and to periodically report progress related to the project
performance indicators; (h) to prepare annual implementation and physical performance reviews; and (i) to submit
project Annual Operating Plans to the Bank for approval. Using standardized cost indicators, reasonable costing for
subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from standard designs would have to be fully justified in
the subproject proposal, as would proposed investments which fall outside the range of standardized costs.
Project Oversight: The Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC) will undertake project
oversight, delegating project coordination to PRONESE, who will receive and approve the Annual Operating Plans
for the project Municipal Councils (and will receive and approve community subproject proposals in the case of
PAC). PRONESE will be responsible for day-to-day project oversight with respect to monitoring, supervision of
municipal councils, evaluation and required reporting under the project.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of subproject
information from the project Management Information System (MIS) operated and maintained by the STU. The
MIS used under RPAP has been improved under the new project. The database is currently organized in three
general levels: (a) a subproject information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for
each subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are generated;
and (c) a project management module, from which all project reports are generated. Under the new project these
three modules will be integrated to allow improved monitoring of the entire subproject cycle. The database will
also be expanded to include community profiles, and quantitative variables relating to control groups, with the aim
of improving the capacity to evaluate project impact. Finally, the MIS will be migrated on-line to allow real time
data entry and monitoring directly from the field. The STU will continue to be responsible for maintaining and
regularly updating the MIS, including key Project information (as agreed with the Bank). Through periodic
processing of the database information, combined with field visits and inputs from project supervision reports,
project contracted studies and audits, the STU would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify
implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. The Bank's Recife Office would also monitor project performance indicators through the online
MIS, and with inputs from the State, review monthly disbursement summaries and supervise subproject
implementation progress on a sample basis in the field.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: : The Special Account will be established in a
commercial bank, and the project accounts will be maintained and audited annually in accordance with the audit
TORs. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the project
accounts for the period January I to December 31 of the year will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable
5 Detailed criteria and procedures concerning perfornance incentives and penalties are included in the Project Operational Manual.



Page 48
to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30' in the year following the year for
which the projects accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will include the issuance of a management letter on
internal controls six months after effectiveness. The audit reports would convey the auditor's opinion and comment
as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the statements of expenditure (SOEs), their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreements
and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. With respect to withdrawals on the
basis of SOEs, such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with the procedures
involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals.
Project Reporting: Periodic processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the characteristics
and evolution of project implementation. The STU will be responsible for reporting on the project performance
indicators.
* Annual Physical Performance Reviews: The Annual physical performance review would be conducted on a
sample of community subproject beneficiary communities. Variables assessed during the Review would include:
quality of investments, as assessed by beneficiaries and qualified professionals, cost-effectiveness, as compared
with similar public sector investments, and procurement, such as local contracting of goods and services.
* Implementation Review: The Implementation Review would be held annually, together with the Physical
performance review. The Review would take place in advance of the approval of next year's Annual Operating
Plan. The range of studies to be prepared for each of these reviews would be agreed upon on a rolling basis, at
appraisal for the first review, and at each annual implementation review for the subsequent implementation
review.



Page 49
Summary Features of Sergipe Municipalities According to their Priority for RPRP
(1996 Figures)
Total    Metropolitan         Project Municipalities
Indicators                                                      Sergipe       Area 1/       lst Priority    2"' Priority
Number of Municipalities                                           75            4              35               36
Area (Km2)                                                       21,962         857            9,457           11,650
Population                                                      1,624,020     607,626         325,016         691,378
Percentage Rural Population (%)                                  29.8%          1.7%          63.6%            38.6%
Heads of Family                                                 383,932       147,179         72,911          163,842
Average Farnily Size                                              4.2           4.1             4.4             4.3
Average number of years of study: males > 4 years                 3.3           4.2             1.9             2.5
Average number of years of study: females > 4 years               3.8           4.6             2.4             3.0
Population > 4 years without formal education (%)                31.1%         22.9%          42.1%            35.9%
Persons Occupied in Agriculture                                 313,271        4,811          140,564         167,896
Value of Farm Output/Persons Occupied in Agriculture (R$)         873          2,925           731              933
Number of Farns                                                  99,774         1,210         43,401           55,163
Percentage of farms < 10 ha (%)                                  77.8%         76.5%          76.0%            79.3%
Area in Farms/Total Area (%)                                     40.4%         25.5%          46.0%            45.4%
Hospital Beds                                                    3,415         2,046            152            1,217
Hospital Beds per 000 Population                                  2.1           3.4             0.5              1.8
Average Municipal Government Expenses per Municipality (000 R$)  4,488         36,020          1,922           3,421
Municipal Government Expenses/Population (R$)                     211           237            207              188
Current Municipal Government Income /Population (R$)              190           206             192             172
Municipal Government Tax-based Income/Population (R$)             26.3          62.2            1.6             4.1
1/ The municipalities included are Aracaju, Barra dos Coqueiros, Sao Crist6vao and Nossa Senhora do Socorro
SOURCE: Elaborated from IBGE "Base de Informacoes Municipais", 2nd Edition, 2000, CD-Rom.



Page 50
Table B: Project Performance Indicators
iProject Components and       Responsible        Unit      PYO   PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4    Total
P e  Activities                  Institution
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects Implemented         Benef. Assoc.      No.                250     250     300      200     1,000
- Infrastructure                                 No.                150     150      180     120       600
- Productive                                     No.                 50      50       60      40       200
- Social                                         No.                 50      50       60      40       200
Beneficiaries                      PCU,
Councils
- Total                                        Families              13       13      16      10        52
('000)
- Total                                        People 1              57      57       71      44       229
('000)
Community Associations              PCU,           No.
benefited2                    Councils                            192     192     231      154       769
Municipal Councils created3
- FUMAC                           PCU            No.                  3        0       0       0         3
- FUMAC-P                         PCU            No.                  3        2       0       0         5
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program       PCU,
of technical assistance and   Councils
training
(i)  PCU                                         No.                   I       I       I        1        4
(ii) Municipal Councils                          No.                   I       I       I        1        4
Community Mobilization             PCU,
Councils
-Beneficiaries                                Seminars 4             13       13      16      10        52
- Local Leaders (for formation                  No. of
of Municipal Councils)                     Participants 5         120      40        0       0       160
No. of training courses offered
to:
- Beneficiary associations                      No. 6                13       13      16      10        52
- All Municipal Councils        FUMAC,           No. 7
FUMAC-P                               15      15       15      15        60
- PCU staff                                      No.                  4        4       4       4         16
Technical Assistance provided
- for Subproject                   PCU,        Subprojects
Implementation                Councils      Attended            250     250      300     200     1,000
(technology transfer)
- to Municipal Councils5           PCU          Contracts             71       71      71      71        71
4.4 persons/family.
2       1.3 subprojects/association.
3       In addition to the already existing FUMAC (68) and FUMAC-P councils in the state.
4       2 seminars/Year/30 associations
5       20 community leaders/Municipal Council.
6       2 courses/year/30 associations
7       2 courses for groups of 10 Councils (FUMAC-FUMAC-P) including existing.
Including existing Municipal Councils



Page 51
Project Components and     Responsible      Unit    PYO  PY1   PY2   PY3   PY4    Total
Project Activities          Institution
C. Project Administration,
Supervision, Monitoring
and Evaluation
Supervision
- Subprojects                    PCU,         No. of
Councils      Visits 9          750    750    900    600    3,000
- Municipal Councils             PCU          No. of
Visits 10          148    152    152    152        604
Annual Operating Plans (POAs)
- Preparation of POA for      FUMAC          No.
FUMAC                      Councils                          74      76      76     76       302
- Consolidation and            PCU           No.
Preparation of Project POA                                     I      I       I       1        4
Standard designs
- Preparation                  PCU           No.                 4      2       0       0        6
- Review and Updating          PCU                              10      9       0       0       19
Special Account (establishment)  PCU                              X
Information Campaign             PCU
- Presentation to Bank                                   X
- Campaign Launched                                             X
Operational Manual               PCU
- Preparation                                            X
- Review and Adjustments                                        X
(with Bank approval)
Monitoring Reports (sent to
Bank)
- Monthly Disbursement         PCU           No.                12      12     12      12       48
Summaries and MIS update
- Annual, Semi-annual          PCU           No.                 3       3      3       3       12
Reports
- External Audits              PCU           No.                 I       I      I       1        4
Evaluation Studies
- Physical Performance         PCU           No.
Reviews
(i) Mid-Term                                                           X
- Impact Evaluation            PCU           No.
(i) Baseline                                                   X
(ii) Final                                                                            X
9      3 visits/subproject.
'°     2 visits/Municipal Council/year, including existing.



Page 52
Annex 4
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Component                                     Local         Foreign           Total
-------------US$ million-----------
A. Community Subprojects
*  FUMAC                                                 5.2           14.4            19.6
*  FUMAC-P                                               1.0            2.7             3.7
*  PAC                                                   0.3            0.9             1.2
Subtotal                                                 6.5           18.0            24.5
B. Institutional Development                             0.0            1.5             1.5
C. Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation             0.5            1.0             1.5
Total Baseline Cost                                      7.0           20.5            27.5
Physical Contingencies                                0.1             0.2            0.3
Price Contingencies                                   0.1             0.1            0.2
Total Proiect Cost                                       7.2           20.8            28.0



Page 53
Annex 5
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Economic Analysis
Specific investments carried out under the new project will be decided by communities over the life span of the
project. It is thus not possible to know a priori how available resources will be precisely allocated, and therefore a
precise ex ante estimation of their cost-effectiveness, economic rate of return and fiscal impact is not possible.
However, subprojects to be financed under the proposed project would, in general, be similar to those financed
under previous and ongoing community-based rural development projects. Based on accumulated experience from
the R-NRDP and. RPAP, the following aspects of project investments were assessed: (i) cost-effectiveness and
sustainability of infrastructure and social subprojects; (ii) financial viability of productive subprojects; and (iii) the
fiscal impact of the RPRP.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
The bulk of subproject investments under the RPAP program in the Northeast, were of the infrastructure type (77%),
while social subprojects comprised less than 3%. Most of these subprojects are in the realm of core public services
(water, sanitation, electrification, social investments). Numerous studies show that these basic services provide
benefits that justify their universal provision.' The R-NRDPs and RPAPs demonstrated that the CDD approach to
rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work, in a cost effective manner. Several aspects
of project design help to ensure that infrastructure and social subprojects undertaken represent the least-cost, best
alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where they are most
needed. Community participation, under the direction of the project Municipal Councils, ensures that the chosen
subproject is the best alternative for the local community. Furthermore, the project has, in the Municipal Councils, a
democratic mechanism to prioritize the use of the available resources. Second, the use of standard technical designs
(projetos padrdo) for the most common types of infrastructure and social subprojects (including corresponding cost
parameters) ensures that community associations employ least-cost models for subproject implementation. These
standard designs also decrease search and information costs for community associations by providing established
patterns of initiating and completing a subproject. Experience under the RPAP demonstrates that the technical
quality of these investments has been good. Third, the delegation of subproject implementation directly to the
community associations has proven to generate cost savings, when compared to comparable quality works
implemented by public sector agencies. The contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual
require direct contracting through competitive processes on all subprojects: the community association solicits three
bids for the subproject and chooses the least-cost bid.  These characteristics have contributed to the cost-
effectiveness of the subprojects financed under the project. Based on the analysis of a random sample of subprojects
(including ten categories which collectively represent some 80% of the types of subprojects being financed), it has
been found that, for infrastructure and social subprojects, costs under the RPAP were found to be 30-50% cheaper
than projects of similar quality, when financed by the state. State-level evaluation of the RPAP in Bahia, Ceara,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe examined the quality of the materials used, the quality of
overall finish, and the quality of operation of the investments. In all states surveyed, the majority of subprojects
were found to be technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction with the
quality of their subprojects and regarded more than 90% of all investments as being satisfactory overall.
Also, according to experience, the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects has been good,
with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain the investments. The overall
evaluation study of the Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000, reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects
funded by the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997/98, finding that 7,240 of them, or 89%, were fully operational
in March 2000. Furthermore, the same study found that there was no substantial difference in terms of sustainability
across infrastructure, productive and social subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and 239 social
' WorldBank. Public Expendituresfor Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth andImproving Services. Report no. 18700-
BR. December 1998.



Page 54
community subprojects, 89.2%, 86.8% and 88.3%, respectively, were fully operational at the time of the study. The
Bank preparation mission that visited the State of Alagoas in April 2001 confirmed this finding. Field visits in
Alagoas were instructive because the reformulated NRDP, which ended in 1996, was not followed by an RPAP as
happened in other Northeastern states. The mission was therefore able to examine the current situation of old
investments, five or more years later - an ad hoc survey of the "after project" situation. What the mission observed
in the eight municipalities surveyed was encouraging: all the old infrastructure and social subprojects visited were
working well, properly looked after by the community, and obviously satisfying each community's felt needs.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects analyzed (Table D).
Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments are generally financially sustainable
(Table A). Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time investment grant from the RPAP, this
investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average beneficiary association
is, in general, adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its
useful economic life.
For illustrative purposes, twelve productive subprojects representing some of the most typical productive
investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selected for financial analysis. Activity models were constructed for
these subprojects, based on field interviews with the managers of the subprojects (carried out during evaluation),
supervision and project preparation missions, and consultation of standard project designs (projetos padrdo)
prepared by the STUS.2 The subprojects analyzed are as follows:
*    Manioc Mill. Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment required to
process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to and from the plant.
The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The plant operates around 100 days
per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately 30 tons offarinha and 4.8 tons of starch
employing one person to operate the plant during those days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15% of
output. Association members normally pay a smaller fee than non-members.
*    Communal Tractor. Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain sheller, grader and other equipment, including a
garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor works for members and
non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport services. It works approximately
1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members are smaller than prices charged by private
tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The subproject employs a full-time motorist hired by the
association.
*    Small Irrigation 1. Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump and irrigate a total of
some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the introduction of a new technical
package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two high-price Brazilian vegetables with good local
markets), which replace the existing traditional cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very
good return.
*   Small Irrigation 2. Sprinkling irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land with water
pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the irrigated land is used
for traditional subsistence crops, corn and beans, although a cash crop-- watermelon - is planted on one-
third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.
*   Goat Production. Production of goats for a group of some 30 farmers, consisting of 120 breeding females
and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are
2 Technical units of RPAP projects prepareprojetospadrdo to be given to potentially interested communities and technical consultants to serve
as a guide for project design. The objective is to reduce subproject preparation costs and improve their design.



Page 55
installed. Income is derived from the sale (or self-consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or
self-consumption) of milk.
*  Animal Feed Production Equipment. Grinding machine and complementary equipment to produce animal
feed from crop residuals, together with a small construction to shelter the machine. Farmers pay a small
amount (R$ 1.5) per hour to use the machine. From these payments, electricity and maintenance costs are
covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works approximately six months per year. Raw materials
and labor to operate the machine are supplied by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is
freely supplied by association leaders.
* Honey Production. Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture and honey
processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous apiculture
experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8 sites, are maintained
by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of honey which is sold wholesale.
* Local Bakery. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking facilities to
produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day. Employs a master baker
and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding communities.
*  Fish Farm. Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 tilapia fish each. Ponds are rotated,
with 4 ponds being permanently used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond in a year, with a total
output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One person is employed half-time to
feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman. Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.
* Cashew Processing Plant. Middle size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200 tons of
cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew nuts, which are then sold
wholesale. It operates during ten months of the year, employing around 6 operators. Cashew nuts are
bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with I to 5 ha of cashew trees each.
e Jam Production Plant. Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and other inputs
are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to retailers. Employs a plant
manager and three permanent workers.
3  Small Dairv Plant. Middle size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling chamber and
other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 1. per day. The plant is supplied by around 400
cows with an average daily output of 3 1. per cow belonging to some 60 dairy farmers in a radius of 6 km.
Employs a plant manager and 4 permanent workers. The results of the financial analysis are summarized in
Table A.



Page 56
Table A
Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity      Investment   IRR      NPV        Net      Years to
(R$)      (%)   (at 10%)  Annual    Recover
Income   the Capital
(R$)     Invested
Manioc Mill                   18,450     15.8    5,377      3,970       5.6
Communal Tractor              39,752     37.6   35,141      18,075      2.4
Small Irrigation 1           44,054      >50    327,366    90,781       0,9
Small Irrigation 2           28,311      28.1    23,573     15,238      3.3
Goat Production               43,346     16.5    16,925    12,180       5.8
Feed Production Equipment     6,730      15.4    1,831      1,149       5.9
Honey Production              26,102     16.8    9,112      7,252       5.5
Local Bakery                  43,352     35.0   56,868    29,575        2.8
Fish Farm                     46,104     15.6   13,739    13,162        5.6
Cashew Processing Plant       64,964     >50    288,790    72,195        1.1
Jam Production Plant          41,123     41.7   69,062    35,008        2.4
Small Dairy Plant            62,583      19.7   30,223    34,591        4.7
The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical for RPAP
productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some of them being very high.
Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and less than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net
incremental annual income or value-added generated by the subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149
for the feed preparation equipment to R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average
value of around R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000.3 The IRRs of the subprojects compare
favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is on the order of 11 to 12 per cent.
The IRRs also compare favorably with the interest rates that would have to be paid in concessionary rural credit
programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste and Banco do Brasil. Only two subprojects --the cashew processing
plant and one of the irrigation subprojects -- would be able to pay the high interest rates charged by commercial
banks for term lending.
Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample. First among these are communal
processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and well-known to farmers, that meet
community-wide needs, directly benefiting a majority of families in the community. The manioc mill, communal
tractor, feed production equipment and goat production subprojects fall into this category. The results summarized
in Table A illustrate that these types of investments can be profitable. Their financial returns, however, are not high
because (a) benefits are passed on to fanners in the form of moderate user fees or (b) because the activity in question
is intrinsically not very profitable as in the case of small-scale goat rearing. Economic returns are higher than those
3      Simple averages.
Measured by the difference between the SELIC rate and the inflation rate.



Page 57
shown in Table A above for the same reasons mentioned in (a). These subprojects have the advantage of building on
activities familiar to farmers, and have therefore little training requirements and simple management needs. They
also have low marketing requirements since the community itself is the market for the service and the outputs
produced with the help of the service normally have regular marketing channels or are self-consumed.
The second category of subprojects are those promoting off- or on-farm productive activities which generate full
time employment and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community. The small irrigation
subprojects and the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery subprojects belong in this category.
New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold in markets outside the community, exemplified by the
honey production, fish farming and jam production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source of income and
employment to some members of the community; however, these subprojects tend to be demanding in terms of
marketing and managerial skills. 5 These subprojects are normally part of industries where the entry cost is low and
competition high, leaving small operating margins. The availability of working capital and the ability to establish a
brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the best-paying markets are two common constraints.
Local bakeries, which are popular subprojects in some states, have few training and marketing requirements, and are
similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater for a local need and have therefore a local
market, although in this case it is that of a final good rather than of a productive service, but they only offer
employment and income to a reduced number of community members. The irrigation subprojects illustrate well
that, whenever possible, irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and an improved technical package is
a profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment in the semi-arid areas of the Brazilian
Northeast, which can be successfully operated by local farmers at a very small scale. The contrast between the very
high returns to investment of the first subproject, where new cash crops and technology were introduced alongside
with irrigation, and the moderately high one of the second subproject highlights the impact of profiting from the
availability of irrigation water to introduce wider changes in the cropping system.
The last category of subprojects consists of processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investment,
which operate on a scale bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting farmers
outside the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and cashew processing plants
exemplify this type of subprojects.
To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out of the illustrative
activity models. Three scenarios are considered. In the first one, production is assumed to be 20% below the base
case, because of, say, marketing problems.  A 20% decrease in output causes a 20% decrease in revenue, but this
is, to some extent, matched by a reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs. In the second scenario,
the price decreases 20% and, because of marketing problems, revenue also decreases by the same proportion without
any compensating element.  Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20% in the price of variable costs is
assumed. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table B.
5Other popular subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production of different artisanal goods such as embroideries.



Page 58
Table B
Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Subproject           Base Case    Scenario 1     Scenario 2    Scenario 3
- 20% output   - 20% price   + 20% costs
Manioc Mill
IRR (%)                   15.8         11.5           10.1          14.4
NPV (R$)                 5,377         1,385           132         4,124
Communal Tractor
IRR (%)                  37.6          17.2           < 0           16.8
NPV (R$)                35,141        10,836         -23,602       10,221
Small Irrigation 1
IRR (%)                  >50           >50            39.4          >50
NPV (R$)                327,366       163,375        77,015        154,646
Small Irrigation 2
IRR (%)                  28.1           7.4           4.6           13.0
NPV (R$)                23,573        -2,965         -6,057         3,546
Goat Production
IRR (%)                   16.5          12.8          11.5          15.2
NPV (R$)                 16,925        7,097          3,847        13,395
Feed Production Equipment
IRR (%)                   15.4         11.2           10.2          14.4
NPV (R$)                 1,831          397            62           1,496
Honey Production
IRR (%)                   16.8          10.0           7.2          11.6
NPV (R$)                 9.112          42           -3,635         2,162
Local Bakery
IRR (%)                  35.0          20.1            < 0          15.8
NPV (R$)                56,868        22,451        -21,559        12,859
Fish Farm
IRR(%)                    15.6          9.3            < 0           < 0
NPV (R$)                 13,739        -1,732        -39,886       -26,024
Cashew Processing Plant
IRR (%)                  >50           > 50           48.3          >50
NPV (R$)                288,790       210,642        132,561       201,015
Jam Production Plant
IRR (%)                  41.7          24.0            < 0          12.7
NPV (R$)                69,062        29,690         -33,720        5,652
Small Dairy Plant
IRR (%)                   19.7          2.0          n.d.(*)       n.d.(*)
NPV (R$)                30,223        -23,493       -138,697       -84,981
(*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.
Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general, subprojects which are
highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the bakery, the fish farm, the jam production
plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to deteriorating market conditions than those little dependent on
purchased inputs, such as the manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and honey production
subprojects. In all cases, the worst scenario is that of a decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario
depends on the type of subproject; for subprojects highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the increase in
variable production costs (scenario 3), while for those little dependent on purchased inputs, it is the fall in output
(scenario 1).
To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average of the IRRs is calculated of the
activity models included in the sample. The shares of each of the twelve types of illustrative models (which were



Page 59
taken to represent other similar ones) in the total amount invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program
until the end of April 2001 were used as weights.6  The resulting average IRR is 30.2%. This figure gives an
indication of the overall profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP, but should
not be taken as an ex ante estimate of the aggregate profitability of the productive investments of the RPRP, since it
is not known a priori which type of subprojects will be most requested by beneficiary communities during the new
project.
Fiscal Impact
There are two possible assumptions for estimating the fiscal impact of the RPRP program on the budget of the State
Governments of the Northeast Region. One assumption is that, in the absence of the program, State Governments
would not carry out the type of investments financed by RPRP, devoting those resources to other uses. An
alternative assumption is that without RPRP, State Governments would carry out the investments using a different
targeting and disbursement mechanism. The latter is the most plausible assumption, particularly for the
infrastructure and social investments, in view of their absolute priority, the social and political pressure from the
rural population and municipal authorities in favor of these investments, and the sustained interest shown by
Northeast Governments in the RPAP program. The focus here is therefore on this second hypothesis. It is worth
noting, however, that if the investments were not carried out, the resources saved by the State Governments would
not significantly alter their overall fiscal position. As shown in Table C, where the annual program cost of the RPRP
is compared with total and current state budgetary expenses, the annual cost of the RPRP to the Northeast
Governments ranges between 0.4 and 1.0 per cent of their total annual budgetary expenditures and between 0.5 and
1.2 per cent of their total states' annual current expenditures for year 2000.
Table C
Comparison between State Budgetary Expenditures and State-level RPRP Annual Costs7
RPRP                    State Budget                 Comparison
Total       Annual          Total       Current        Annual         Annual
State       Program   Program Cost Expenditure  Expenditure   RPRP Cost   RPRP Cost
Cost        (R$m)         (R$ m)         (R$ m)       (as % of       (as % of
(R$ m)                                                   Total        Current
Expenditure) Expenditure)
1. Alagoas              33.6           6.7        1,280.9       1,141.9         0.5%           0.6%
2.  Bahia              157.5          31.5        7,788.0       5,032.0          0.4%          0.6%
3.  Ceara              105.0          21.0        4,885.0       2,541.0          0.4%          0.8%
4.  Maranhao           112.0          22.4        3,083.0       2,308.0          0.7%          1.0%
5. Paraiba              86.1          17.2        2,068.0       1,463.0          0.8%          1.2%
6.  Pernambuco          84.0          16.8        4,117.2       3,421.2          0.4%          0.5%
7.  Piaui               63.0          12.6        1,715.0       1,303.0          0.7%          1.0%
8. RioG.
Norte Norte         63.0           12.6       1,891.9       1,570.2          0.7%          0.8%
9.  Sergipe             63.0          12.6        1,312.0       1,100.0          1.0%          1.1%
Aggregate              767.2         153.4       28,141.0      19,880.3         0.5%           0.8%
6 The IRR of the "Small Irrigation I " and "Cashew Processing Plant" sibprojects, which is higher than 50%, was taken to be equal to 50% in the
computation of the weighted average.
7 RPRP cost figures for Paraiba and Maranhao are provisional. The State Government part is 25% of the total cost minus the resources
contributed by the beneficiary communities, which are a 10% of the "Community Subprojects" Component (90% of the total cost). US$ figures
have been converted into RS using a 2.1 exchange rate. State budget figures are for year 2000.



Page 60
Under the second assumption, the direct impact of RPRP on government earnings derives both from the generation
of incremental government revenue and from savings in government costs.
There are tangible government savings associated with the community driven design of the program. Thus, as
mentioned above, evaluations have shown that the cost of investments implemented by communities (either directly
or contracted) were 30-50 per cent lower than prices paid by public authorities for similar works. There are also
budgetary savings associated to the decreased need for state and local governments to provide some inescapable
services which need is reduced by RPAP investments. This is for instance the case with government costs for water
distribution using carros pipa to communities without drinking water in critical periods. Thus, a mid-term
evaluation review of Bahia, Ceara and Sergipe concluded that in Sergipe estimated savings on expenses for carros
pipa associated with RPAP investments totaled R$500,000 (about R$ 100,000 per month) during a year of 'normal'
rainfall; in CearA savings were estimated at R$ 950,000; and in Bahia, R$I million. In years of severe drought, as in
1998, savings were at least double those estimated for a normal year. Provision of better quality, more reliable
water also has less quantifiable but nonetheless significant impacts on health, reducing public health costs of
Municipal Governments. Subproject operation and maintenance costs are also typically paid by the beneficiary
community, reducing the fiscal burden of municipalities and states (with a few exceptions, e.g. electricity and some
types of water supply, commonly maintained by state agencies and operated in return for a user fee).
With respect to revenue generation direct impacts are likely to be small but indirect impacts could be significant.
The incremental revenue on the sales tax (ICMS) will be small because much of the incremental production of the
subprojects is either self-consumed or not liable to taxation or circulates in informal markets where tax is rarely
paid. Infrastructure subprojects, however, can have big one-time indirect benefits. Experience for instance shows
that there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became available.
Thus, the same mid-term evaluation report quoted above estimated the incremental ICMS revenue from the most
common appliances (TV sets, refrigerators, stereos, irons, antennas, etc.) at approximately R$2.0 million in Sergipe,
R$2.2 million in Ceara and R$1.0 million in Bahia. Incremental ICMS revenue from electrical equipment is also
associated to the purchase of items such as agricultural machinery and irrigation pumps.
Aggregate Impact of the RPRP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area
The July 2000 impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States, the results of which
are examined in Annex 2, provides an estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, income and cultivated area
of the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program. The study, based on a sample from
the most representative types of subprojects in each of the States, with an error of less than 20%, allows the
calculation of summary figures of incremental jobs created, incremental income generated and incremental number
of ha cultivated per unit invested in productive subprojects. From these summary figures, a gross approximation to
the aggregate benefits of the entire RPRP program has been estimated, with the following results (rounded figures):
Total investment in community subprojects:                           US$362.0 million
Incremental employment created:                                           40,000 jobs
Incremental net annual income/savings generated:                      US$80.0 million
Incremental cropped area:                                              40,000 hectares
When the impact of the predecessor R-NRDP is included, aggregate investments in community subprojects of about
US$800 million, through March 2000, have generated almost 100,000 additional jobs, incremental net annual
income/savings of US$203 million and 85,000 hectares of incremental cultivated area. These estimates are subject
to a number of caveats, among which is the fact that the level of significance of the sample is not big and that the
representative subproject mix under the RPAP only by chance would be replicated under the RPRP. Furthermore,
the estimates reflect not only the direct impact of the investments on employment, income and cultivated land but
also some indirect impacts, for example, the expansion of cultivated area, employment and income derived from the
introduction of a tractor or a casa defarinha in a certain community. The above figures should be taken therefore as
an indication of the order of magnitude of the benefits involved.



Page 61
Table D: Socio-Economic Benefits of Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
Cost Effectiveness
Project Type       Total No.    No. of       Cost per   Net No. of  Net Annual Incremental  Economic         Total       Total      Economic
of      Beneficiary  Subproject     Jobs    Incremental  Crop Area    Internal   Investment  Investment   Benefit-
Subprojects   Families     (US$)    Created per  Income/sav  Cultivated    Rate of        per        per Job    Cost Ratio3
Completed4      per                  Subproject'  ings per       per        Return    Beneficiary    Created
Subproject                           Subproject  Subproject      (%)        Family       (US$)
(US$)    (hectares)2                 (US$)
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply         4,025         71        30,149                   12,369        1.4           -          425           -            -
Rural electrification      4,080         49        22,400                    1,942        1.6           -          457           -           -
Small bridges               538         139        26,350                    1,040        2.3          -           190           -           -
Community telephones        435         140        22,944                    422           0            -          164           -           -
Productive:
Manioc mills                412          68         18,451       10.8       17,148        16.3        >30          271         1,708        >2.0
Community Tractors          573          95        30,870        29.3       28,137        22.6        >30          325         1,054        >2.0
Small-scale livestock       110          40        16,354        2.5        6,214         2.8         >30          409         6,542        >2.0
Small-scale irrigation      146          36        25,158        25.4       23,800        37.9        >30          699          990         >2.0
Social:
Road paving/rehab.          675          82        31,930                    242          1.7           -          389           -           -
Sanitation systems          171          72        29,727         -           0            0                       413
Note:    'Many jobs created by the infrastructure and social subprojects come from additional economic activities made possible by the investments, but not directly involved with the project after its
construction/establishment
2 The incremental crop areas associated with infrastructure and social subprojects come from the cultivation of additional areas which was made possible by the projects.
3Obtained by using a real rate of 10% for the opportunity cost of capital.
As of March 2000. By January 2001, some 19,000 subprojects have been completedunder the RPAP. Subproject distribution does not vary greatly.



Page 62
Table E: Financial Sustainability Analysis, Selected Productive Subprojects
Item/Project                       Manioc          Farm       Small-scale    Small-scale
Mill        Tractor       Irrigation      Livestock
Number of associations                                 412            573            110             146
Average net income per association (US$) ')            5,963         4,370           n.a             n.a
Average cost of subproject (US$)                      18,451        30,870         25,158           16,354
Averave number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                         12             10            20              n.a.
To build replacement fund (years) 2)                    <5            <8              -
I) Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2) Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original investment, which is considerably less
than the useful economic life of the investment. The real irterest rate is assumed to be 10 percent.



Page 63
Annex 6
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in million US$)
2002   2003   2004   2005    Total   2006   2007   2008
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5.9    5.9    7.1    4.8       23.7       -      -       -
Recurrent Costs             1.1    1.1    1.3    0.8        4.3    1.0    1.0    1.0
Total                    7.0    7.0    8.4    5.6        28.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                       18.7   18.7   22.6   15.0       75.0       -       -      -
State Governments           4.0    4.0    4.8    3.2       16.0       -       -      -
Community Associations      2.2    2.2    2.8    1.8        9.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Total                   24.9   24.9   30.2   20.0    100.0    1.0    1.0    1.0



Page 64
Annex 7
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A) GENERAL
All procurement of goods under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Guidelines,
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The methods to be
used for procurement are described below and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table
A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are established in Table B.
B) PROCUREMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAPACITY
Project administration and monitoring will be the responsibility of the State Secretariat for Planning, Science
and Technology's Technical Unit (PRONESE). A procurement capacity assessment of the STU was conducted
by the Project Team's Procurement Specialist and was cleared by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office
(RPA) on June 19, 2001. The "Overall Procurement Risk" was assessed as low. The STU has successfully
carried out three previous Bank operations and its procurement performance has been consistently satisfactory.
In addition, periodic audits of subprojects covering procurement and financial aspects and including selected
physical inspections of goods and works procured revealed appropriate oversight and quality control by the
STU. The STU has appropriate procedures, internal controls, technical and administrative support, and is well
organized and staffed. Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by the STU's Procurement Committee
and his support staff who have performed successfully, similar functions during the previous loan and are well
versed in Bank procurement policies and procedures. The bulk of procurement financed by the Project would
be carried out by the grants beneficiaries. The implementing agency would carry out procurement of consulting
services to provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries, and exceptionally procure goods and works on
behalf of the beneficiaries which are deemed not to have sufficient capacity. However, it is estimated that the
amount of procurement carried out by the implementing agency will be limited.  The beneficiaries'
administrative capacity would be demonstrated in the subproject proposals and evaluated by the Implementing
Agency. In addition, the Implementing Agency would exercise overall quality control of procurement financed
by the subprojects.
C) PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Subproiects
The Project will provide matching grants to legally constituted rural community associations to finance small
scale subprojects, finance technical assistance and training for institutional strengthening. Grants would be
made in accordance with the selection procedures described in the Project Operational Manual. A standard
grant agreements acceptable to the Bank would be used to transfer grant funds to the beneficiaries under
conditions that would ensure adequate implementation.
Procurement of goods and works under subprojects costing less than US$50,000 implemented in remote areas
would be carried out mainly through direct contracting and community participation. This procurement method
is appropriate because most subprojects: (a) would be small and/or implemented in scattered or remote areas
and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural
communities, who will also contribute directly to the work through the donation of unskilled labor and local
materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute to and
physically supervise works execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role in



Page 65
the local development process. Additional procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million, would follow commercial practices which would
include price comparison from three qualified suppliers. All such goods would be procured at a reasonable
price, taking into account also other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts, and would be used exclusively in implementing
the grants. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Works contracts (other than contracts costing less than US$50,000 in scattered or remote areas) estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.7 million, would be procured under
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a minimum of three qualified
local contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
The standard bidding documents for NCB agreed between the Bank and the Federal Govermnent of Brazil
would be used. No International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is anticipated for any goods or works under the
Project.
Consultant Services
Firms
The loan would finance contracts with consulting firms for information campaigns, technical assistance, studies
and capacity building for the beneficiary communities and the STU. These contracts would be awarded
following a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process, in accordance with Section II of the Consultant
Guidelines. However, services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
following Least Cost Selection procedures in accordance with provisions for paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines. In addition, services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract,
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured on the basis of Single Source Selection procedures in
accordance with paragraphs 3.8 and 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Individuals
The consulting services required for the Project include specialized advisory services and services to support
project monitoring, such as MIS experts, which are appropriate for individual consultants.
Individual consultants would be selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and retained in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. The competitive
process followed to select individual consultants would be described in further detail in the Operational Manual.
Operating Costs and Salaries
Sundry items, utilities and other incremental recurring costs would be financed on a 20 percent basis and would
be procured using the STU's administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.
In addition, the Bank would finance 50 percent of STU incremental staff costs for project supervision and
monitoring.
Prior review thresholds and Procurement Supervision
The proposed thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table B. Prior review would be required for all
NCB contracts. In addition, the Bank would review the first contracts procured through shopping procedures
for goods and works, respectively. Contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and



Page 66
with individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Assignments of a critical nature and amendments raising contract values above the said thresholds would also
be subject to prior review.
Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be overall low, it would be compensated in
several ways. First, reviews of procurement by community contracting would be carried out yearly during
project implementation, under terms of reference agreed during project preparation. Second, cost comparisons
of similar subprojects would be conducted using the project MIS in order to detect possible procurement
problems and determine whether prices paid under community procurement were reasonable. Third, the
project's annual physical performance evaluation would verify the physical implementation of subprojects and
analyze procurement issues. Finally, during Bank supervision, additional random reviews would be conducted
of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                               Procurement Method'                           Total Cost
NCB         Local         Direct      Other    N.B.F3         (including
Shopping   Contracting                            contingencies)
1. Civil Works4                                 0.7           14.3                                  15.0
(0.5)        (10.7)                                (11.2)
2. Goods and Materials3                         1.0           9.0                                   10.0
(0.7)         (6.8)                                 (7.5)
3. Consultine Services. Studies                               1.4         1.6                       3.0
and Proiect Administration                                   (0.5)        (1.6)                     (2.1)
Total                                        1.7           24.7         1.6                      28.0
(1.2)        (18.0)       (1.6)                    (20.8)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value               Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Expenditure Category              Threshold                     Method                 Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                                       (US$ millions)
1. Works                             > 100,000                      NCB                        All
<100,000                Three Quotations                 1St
<50,000 in remote areas       Direct Contracting              None
2. Goods                              >100,000                      NCB                        All
<100,000                    Shopping                      is
<50,000 in remote areas       Direct Contracting              None
3. Consulting Services
Firms                                > 100,000                     QCBS6                       All
<100,000                                                None
Individuals                           >50,000                Guidelines, Section V             All
<50,000                                                None
'Totals include taxes and contingencies.
2 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
3N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Community subprojects
Community subprojects
6 Services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be procured following Least Cost Selection procedures, where appropniate. Single Source
Selection may be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 where appropriate and with the Bank's prior agreement.



Page 67
Disbursement
Financial Management, Auditing and Disbursement Arrangements
The financial management systems of PRONESE were reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialist during
project preparation for compliance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
Implementation Handbook. Based on this review, the project was certified as category "A", indicating that the
Project satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements. The project has in place a financial management
system that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project, as
required by the Bank. The RPAP project has been disbursing via Statements of Expenditure (SOE), but has the
capacity to use the PMR system if the STU chooses to change to this form of disbursement in the future. In this
event, only minor adaptations in reporting formats would be required. Disbursements for all expenditures would be
made (unless otherwise decided) on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for goods and works
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting fmns above US$100,000 equivalent; and with
individuals above US$50,000. The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the
project Technical Unit in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted from the project Technical Unit to the
World Bank in Washington. This procedure would allow the Bank and the project Technical Unit to maintain a
cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the agreement (convenio) between
the project Technical Unit and the beneficiary community association. This contribution would be computed as part
of counterpart finance of the project. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the project
Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated community representative. They would be used to record
cash contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to project audit procedures.
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years. The project is expected to be completed by
the project's Closing Date of June 30, 2006. The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in
Table C.
The annual financial audit will include a separate opinion on the eligibility of expenditures disbursed on the basis of
SOEs or Project Management Reports (PMRs) (if funds are disbursed on the basis of PMRs).
Special Account. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a special account in US
Dollars with Bank of Brazil, with an authorized allocation based on projected disbursements for four months, so as
to initiate disbursements under the traditional disbursement methodology. The project Technical Unit will approve
funds for transfer directly to the beneficiary communities, via the financial agent chosen by the community
association.
PMR-Based Disbursement. Once the Bank approves the Borrower's financial reporting system for PMR-based
disbursements, and should the Borrower choose to adopt the PMR-based disbursement option, such disbursements
should follow the following procedures:
*  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into a special Account based upon Table
C. Each such deposit into the Special Account will be withdrawn by the Bank from the loan account under one
or more of the eligible categories.
*  Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special Account must be supported
by a Project Management Report.
*  Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report
accompanying that application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during six-
month period following the date of the Financial Management Report; and (c) the amount deposited, when



Page 68
added to the amount indicated by the Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account,
cannot exceed US$4.0 million.
* In the case of a faster than expected draw-down of the special account, an interim PMR may be submitted to
request a supplemental disbursement prior to the next scheduled quarterly disbursement request. All supporting
documentation authenticating the expenditures reported in the PMRs will be maintained by the Project
Technical Unit and made available for review by auditors and Bank missions as requested.
Auditing Arrangements. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the special account will
be audited in conjunction with the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the period January I to
December 31. This audit will be performed by an Independent Auditor. Both the terms of reference for the Audit,
and the Auditor shall be acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30
in the year following the year for which the project accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will include the
issuance of a management letter on internal controls six months after effectiveness.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Project Category
Expenditure Category                Project Cost    Financing      Allocation of
in US$ million   Percentage    Loan Proceeds
in US$ million
1. Grants for Community Subproiects (investments,
technical assistance and start-up grants)
(a) FUMAC Grants                                      19.2           75%           14.400
(b) FUMAC-P Grants                                     3.6           75%            2.700
(c) PAC Grants                                         1.2           75%            0.900
2. Consultants' services, technical assistance, training  1.4       100.0%          1.400
and studies for Parts B and C of the Project
3. Administrative Costs
(a) incremental operation costs                        0.7           20%            0.100
(b) project supervision and monitoring costs           0.7           50%            0.400
4. Fee                                                                              0.208
5. Unallocated                                         1.2            -             0.692
Total       28.0                          20.800



Page 69
Annex 8
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                               Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$38,900               US$34,496
B. Project Schedule                                      Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                           8
First Bank mission (identification/preparation)         04/20/01                 04/2001
Appraisal mission departure                              06/20/01                08/13/01
Negotiations                                             07/20/01                10/11/01
Planned Date of Effectiveness                            03/2002                 03/31/02
Prepared by: PRONESE/SEPLAN
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Luis Coirolo, Team Leader, LCSER
Joao Barbosa de Lucena, LCSRE
Tulio Barbosa, LCSRE
Edward Bresnyan, LCSER
Raimundo Caminha, LCSRE
Anna Roumani, LCSER
Marta Molares-Halberg, LEGOP
Claudio Mittelstaedt, LCOAA
Enzo de Laurentiis, LCSES
Joachim von Amsberg. LCC5C
Morag van Praag, LOAG3
Peer Reviewer:
Klaus Deininger, DECRG



Page 70
Annex 9
Brazil
Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
*  Draft Operational Manual for Sergipe
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Sector Issues and Concept
*  Current Rural Poverty Alleviation Program
* Government of Sergipe Project Document
*  Project Economic and Financial Analysis
* Cost-Benefit Analysis for selected Subprojects
* Fiscal Impact
*  Project Implementation Arrangements
*  Community Organizations
* State Technical Units (STUs)
*  Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLAN)
* NGOS
* Private Sector
* Social Capital Assessment
*  Project Monitoring
* Project Database
* Monitoring Activities
* Project Reporting
*  Project Supervision of Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (Loan 3919-BR)
* World Bank Supervision Reports
C. Background Studies
* Mid Term Review of Rural Poverty Alleviation Program in Sergipe, Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte
* Rural Development Programs for Brazil's Northeast: An Interim Assessment
* Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Goverm-nent
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil
*Including electronic files.



Page 71
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Difference Between
Original Amount in USS Millions                Expected and Actual
Disbursements'
Project ID    Project Name                                   Fiscal Year     IBRD  IDA   Grant    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig.    Frm Rev d
P006559      (BF-R)SP.TSP                                        1998            45                                  33         33
P043873      AG TECH DEV.                                        1997            60                                36.2        33.7          17.2
P006562      BAHIA MUN.DV                                        1997           100                                 57.1       55.1          -1.1
P035728      BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                                 1998            51                                31.3        27.6             7
P006564      BELO H M.TSP                                        1995            99                                22.5        22.5
P037828      BR (PR)R.POVERTY                                    1996           175                                89.4        85.6          37.8
P044597      BR BIODIVERSITY FUND                                1996                         20                    0.7         2.6
P058129      BREMER. FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                       1999            15                                 9.9         9.9            9.9
P047309      BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                         2000                          15                    11.8        1.3
P073294      BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                         2001            8.9                                  8.9        1.6
P006474      BRLANDMGT3(SAOPAULO)                                1998            55                                52.7        33.1           18.7
P057910      BR PENSION REFORM LIL                               1998             5                                  3.3        3.3           -0.6
P006541      BR WTR Q/PLN(SP/PR/FED)                             1993           245                      5.2          6        11.2            3.3
P054120      BR- AIDS & STD Control ll                           1999           165                      3.5       55.3        43.8
P043874      BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS                  1999           100                                61.9        61.9
P050763      BR- Fundescola 2                                    1999           202                                61.2       -28.8
P006554      BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS                 1996          300                                 110.9      110.9
P006543      BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                         1994           150                                  7.4        7.4
P038947      BR- SC. & TECH 3                                    1998           155                                125.4      125.4
P059565      BR- BA BASIC EDUJ PROJECT (PHASE 1)                2001           69.6                                51.6        -5.3
P059566      BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                          2001             90                                89.1        -0.9
P048357      BRAZIL CENBANK TAL                                  1998            20                                  7.3        7.3
P046052      CEARA WATER PILOT (SIM)                             1997           9.6                                  3.1        3.1            1.5
P006449      CEARA VTR MGT (PROGERIRH) (SIM)                    2000            136                                127.6       40.5
P006436      Ceara Urban Development & Water Resource            1995           140                                22.7        22.7           10.2
P039200      ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                     2000           43.4                                  43         7.6
P006522      ESP.SANTO WATER                                     1994           154                       54        18.3       72.3            9.6
P006532      FEDHWYDECENTR                                       1997          300                                 158.5      158.5            9.7
P038895      FED.WTRMGT                                          1998           198                                126.9      111.2           51.9
P060221      FORTALEZA MET TRANS PROJ                           2002             85                                 87.9
P055954      GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MGT                            2002             65                                  65           2
P062619      INSS REF LIL                                       2000              5                                  1.9        1.1           -0.5
P006475      LAND RFM PILOT (SIM)                                1997            90                                25.7        25.7
LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I
P050772      (SIM)                                              2001          202.1                                180.9      -13.6
P051701      MARANHAOR.POVERTY                                   1998            80                                 13.3       -2.5
P006505      MATO GROSSO NAT RES                                 1992           205                                 31.7       31.7
P006210      NATL BIODIVERSITY                                   1996                         10                     3.6        4.8            5.5
P035741      NATLENV2                                           2000             15                                 13.5        6.6            5.9
P050776      NE Microftnance Development                        2000             50                                  42          -8
P042565      PARAIBA R.POVERTY                                  1998             60                                 30.8       15.1
P039199      PROSANEAR2                                         2000           30.3                                 29.6       -0.7
P038896      R.POVERTY(RGN)                                      1997            24                                  2.6        2.6
P040028      RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                                1996           350                       75        18.4       93.4           18.4
P038882      RECIFE M.TSP                                       1995            102                                 25.7       25.7
P034578      RGS HWY MGT                                        1997             70                                  55          50            34
P043868      RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                                1997           100                                65.8        43.9             13
P043421      RJM.TRANSITPRJ.                                    1998            186                     17.2       144.2      161.3
P006454      RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                                1992           167                                 22.2       22.2
P050881      RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT - PI               2001           22.5                                 22.5
P057649      Rural Poverty Reduction Project - BA               2001           54.3                                 54.3        6.3
P050875      Rural Poverty Reduction Project - CE               2001           37.5                                 37.5          5
P050880      Rural Poverty Reduction Project - PE               2001           30.1                                 30.1
P048869      SALVADORURBANTRANS                                 1999            150                                107.7       57.7
P073192      TA Financial Sector                                2002           14.5                                 14.5
P043420      WATER S.MOD.2                                      1998            150                                 147       136.9          114.5
TOTAL:           5436.9            45       154.8     2706.3     1725.2          365.9



Page 72
Brazil
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 10/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                        Disbursed
FY Approval Company              Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic
1993    Macedo Alirnentos       7.26       0      5        0   7.26      0      5       0
1996    Mallory                4.36        0      0        0   4.36      0      0       0
1975/96   Oxiteno NE             12.5       5       0       0   12.5       0      0      0
1994    ParaPigmentos           21.5       0      9   12.32   21.5       0      9   12.32
1987/96   Perdigao               17.5       0       0       4   17.5       0      0      4
1989/95   Politeno Ind.          7.31       0       0       0   7.31       0      0      0
1994/00   Portobello               16       0       0       0  15.29       0      0      0
2000    Puras                   4.67       0       0       0   4.67       0      0      0
1998    Randon                  6.53       0      3        0   6.53      0      3       0
1991    Rhodia-Ster               0    5.95       0        0      0    5.95     0       0
1995    Rhodiaco/PTA             7.5       0      0        3    7.5      0      0       3
1990    Ripasa                    0        5      0        0      0      5      0       0
1997    Rodovia               27.22        0      0    47.7  27.22       0      0   47.7
1994/96   S.A.I.C.C.                0       0   6.87        0      0       0   6.87      0
1987/97   SP Alpargatas         16.67       0       5       0  16.67       0      5      0
1994/95/97  Sadia                 21.5        0   7.17  114.67   21.5       0   7.17  114.67
1997    Samarco                 11.7       0      0    6.67   11.7       0       0   6.67
2000    Samaritano               20        0       0       0      0       0      0      0
1998    Saraiva                11.54       3      0        0  11.54       3     0       0
0      Seara Alimentos           0    3.88       0       0      0    3.88      0       0
2001     Sepetiba                32        0       0       8     17       0      0      8
1997    Sucorrico                 9        0      0        0      9      0      0       0
2001     Synteko                  18       0       0       0     18       0      0      0
1996    TIGRE                  13.46       0      5    6.41  13.46       0      5   6.41
1992/93   TRIKEM                    0       0       0       0      0       0      0       0
1998    Tecon Rio Grande        6.65       0     5.5   14.84   6.65       0    5.5  14.84
2001     Tecon Salvador          3.5       1       0       5   2.63    0.77      0   3.75
1993    Votorantim              1.29       0      0    0.14   1.29        0      0   0.14
1999    Vulcabras              18.33       0      0        0  18.33       0      0      0
1997    Wembley                   0       10      0        0      0      10     0       0
1999    Wiest                     0        0      8        0      0       0      8      0
1996/97   Algar Telecom             0    8.17       0       0      0    8.17      0       0
2001     Apolo                     8       0       0       0      3       0      0      0
1998    Arteb                    20        7      0   18.33      20       7      0   18.33
1999    AutoBAn                  35        0      0       31  27.28       0      0  24.16
1993    BACELL                  5.45    15.7      0    10.8  5.45    15.7        0    10.8
2000    BBA                      40        0       0       0    20        0      0      0
1998    BSC                     9.88       0      0    5.29   9.88        0      0   5.29
1993/96   BUNGE/CEVAL               0    8.06       0       0      0    8.06      0       0
1990/91/92  Bahia Sul                0        0      0       0       0      0      0       0
1996    BancoBradesco          10.48       0      0   11.18  10.48        0      0   11.18
1997    Bompreco               16.67       0      5        0  16.67       0      5      0
1991    Bradesco-Eucatex         2.5       0      0        0    2.5       0      0      0
1995    Bradesco-Hering          7.5       0      0        0    7.5       0      0      0
1991    Bradesco-Petrofl         7.5       0      0        0    7.5       0      0      0



Page 73
1991    Bradesco-Romi             0      0.4      0        0      0     0.4     0       0
1995    Brahma- BRA               10       0      5        0     10      0      5       0
1994/96   CHAPECO                  15       0       0       5     15       0      0      5
1973/78/83  CODEMIN                  0      0.4      0       0      0      0.4     0       0
1992    CRP-Caderi                0    0.68       0        0      0    0.68     0       0
1995    Cambuhy/MC              9.38       0      0        0   9.38      0      0       0
1997    Copesul                 27.5       0      0  115.71   27.5       0      0 115.71
1993/97/00  Coteminas                0    0.53       0       0       0    0.53     0       0
1980/92   DENPASA                   0    0.12       0       0      0    0.12      0      0
1998    Dixie Toga                0       15      0        0      0      15     0       0
1987/96/97  Duratex               16.57       0      0   40.71  16.57       0      0  40.71
1999    Eliane                   32        0     13        0     32       0     13      0
1998    Empesca                    5       0      10       0      5       0     10      0
2001/02   Escol@                    0    0.28       0       0      0    0.25      0       0
2000    Fleury                     9       0       6       0      6       0      6      0
1998    Fosfertil                20        0      0    37.5    20         0     0   37.5
1998    Fras-le                  10        0     10        0     10       0    6.7      0
1994    GAVEA                   6.25       0     5.5       0   6.25       0    5.5      0
1994    GP Capital                0    9.86       0        0      0    9.54     0       0
2001     GPC                       9       0       0       0      9       0      0      0
1995/96/98/02 Globocabo               0    4.19       0        0      0    4.19     0       0
1997    Guilnan-Amorim         26.47       0      0   62.26  26.47        0     0  62.26
1998    Icatu Equity              0       20      0        0      0    7.97     0       0
1999    Innova SA                20        5      0       60     20       5      0     60
1980/87/97  Ipiranga                32       0       0   65.45     32       0      0  65.45
1999    Itaberaba                 0    5.34       0        0      0    5.34      0      0
1999    JOSAPAR                   8        0      7        0      3       0     7       0
1995    LATASA - Brazil         1.33       0      5        0   1.33       0      5      0
1995    Lojas Americana          16        0      5        4     16      0      5       4
1987/92/96/99 MBR                    20        0      0        0      0       0      0      0
Total Portfolio:         772.47    134.56  126.04  689.98  675.17  116.95 122.74  681.89
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan           Equity          Quasi        Partic
2001AG Concession                              0           15000          15000         0
2000BBA                                    10000               0              0     50000
2001 Brad Templeton                            0          20000               0         0
2001 Cataguazes                            45000               0              0     40000
1999Cibrasec                                   0           7500              0          0
2001 Satipel                               15000               0         15000          0
2001 Unisul                                15000               0              0         0
2002Univali                                10000               0              0         0
Total Pending Commitment:             95000           42500          30000      90000



Page 74
Annex 11: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe
Brazil at a glance                                                              9"7'01
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Brazil   & Carib.   income     Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (mMfflions)                      170.1       516       647                  Life expecancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    3,590      3,680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      610.1      1,895     2.986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population i%)                                          1.3        1.6       1.3
Labor force (%)                                         1.9        2.3       2.0     GNI                              Gross
per                            pnimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nabional poverty line)    22
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                 81         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        67         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 tive births)                 32        30        28
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)                 6         9                     Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populafion)     87        85        87
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     15        12        10    l          Brazi
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   125       113       107
Male                                                                      106               Upper-middle-income group
Femaie                                                           I. 105
KEY ECONOMIC RAtIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999       2000
Economic ratioe
GDP (US$ biions)                           235.0    465.0      529.4     595.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 23.3     20.2       20.4      20.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP              9.1      8.2       10.6      10.9                     Trade
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                      21.1     21.4       19.3      19.3
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                     17.8     18.9       16.1 
Current account balance/GDP                   -5.5     -08        -4.8      -4.1     Domesc                       Investment
Interest payments/GDP                          2.7      0.4        2.5       2.5     savingv
Total debt/GDP                                30.4     25.8       45.6      39.7     savings
Total debt servicelexports                    63.4     22.5      112.3      77.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                         45 9  45
Present value of debt/exports                                    403.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.7       2.9      0.8        4.5       3.6         -Brazi
GDP per capita                       0.8       1.5     -0.5        3.2       2.3               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.5       5.5     12.0       11.0      13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19B0     1990       1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP%)
(X of GDP)                                                                           15
Agriculture                                   11.0      8.1        7.2       7.4       -
Industry                                      43.8     38.7       27.5      28.6
Manufacturing                               33.5                23.1      24.0
Services                                      45.2     53.2       65.3      64.0      c                  95 97Vo -0
Private consumption                           69.7     59.3       61.8      62.5    -10
General govemment consumpbon                   9.2     19.3       18.9      18.2               -     GOI      -*GDP
Imports of goods and services                 11.3      7.0       11.7      12.1
(average annual growth)                   1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exporbt and Imports1%)
Agriculture                                    2.8      3.2        7.4       3.0    40
Industry                                       2.0      2.6       -1.6       5.0
Manufacturing                                1.6      2.1       -0.7               20
Services                                       3.3      3.0        1.3       3.9     o  
Private consumption                            1.2      5.7        6.1       9.9            95   9S   97   9S          ' 00
General govemment consumpton                   7.3     -1.7       -9.3      -5.4   -20
Gross domestic investment                     3.3       3.4       -3.0       5.0             -     Exports    m n,ports
Imports fgoods and services                    0.5     11.9      -14.8      13.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 75
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000    1Innanon (
Domsstk prkes                                                                       1 0
(% change)                                                                          Z50s
Consumer prices                                 ..  2,947.7        8.9      6.0     2..00
Implicit GDP deflator                         87-3  2,509.5        4.3      8 5     1500
1,000 -
Government finance                                                                   500
(96 of GDP, includes cunmnt grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       19.5     20.0               95   96   97   99       9 5    or
Current budget balance                          ..       ..        0.4      1.0    |              GDP deflator  0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -6.8     -3.2
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                              1980     1990       1999      2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              .   31,414    47,140    53,589     75,000
Coffee                                        ..   2,656       2,746     3,048
Soybeans                                      ..   2,854       1,593     2,188    so_
Manufactures                                  .,  19,624      35,312    41,027      .
Total Imporls (cif)                             ..  20,661      49,275    55,800          L                        
Food                                ,          ..   1,379      1,655     1,507     25,00_
Fuel and energy                                .   4,354       4,258     6,362
Capital goods                                 ..   5,932      13,570    13,593        o
95 9    99   9    98  99  50
Export price index (1995=100)                  80       81         91        97
Import pnce index (1995=100)                   65       74        113       118                 E Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      123      109        80        82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990       1999     2000      Currernt account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ nvllions)
Exports of goods and services               21,857   34,615     55,205    64,470     o
Imports of goods and services               27,788   26,708     63,443    72,741                   U ,                   U
Resource balance                            -5.931    7,907     -8.238    -8,271                  -           *          *
Net income                                  -7,044  -12,523    -18,848   -17,886    -                         U *
Net current transters                          42      834       1,689    1,521    -3                    *           *
Current account balance                    -12,933   -3,782    -25,397   -24,636    -
Financing items (net)                        8,990   -5,043     13,634    33,815    4
Changes In net reserves                      3,943    8,825     11,763    -9,179    .-
M.emo:
Reserves including gold (US$ rtillons)       5,853    9,175    35,725    33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, loca/LUSS)          1.92E-11   2.48E-5       1.8      1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1990     1990      1999      2000                                           _
(USS milions)                                                                        Comp<sflon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        71,520  119,877    241,468   236,200                     A: 7,377
IBRD                                       2,035    8.427     6,822     7.377             G: 29,46         C: 1.768
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Total debt service                          14.757    8,168     67,522    53,200                                      48,358
IBRD                                        275    1,975       1,381    1,351
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     E: 9,932
Official grants                              14       41         62
Official creditors                          825      -633       660    -2,037
Private creditors                          3,745     -427    -11,828   -32,675
Foreign direct investment                  1,911     989     32,659
Portfolio equity                              0        0      1,961                      F. 139,279
World Bank program
Commitments                                 820      905       1,863    1,593      A - IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               343      788       1,533    1,692      3- IDA    0- Other mUtlateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         98    1,251        952       887      C - IMF                     G - Short-terrn
Net flows                                   245      -463       580       805                                              I
Interest payments                           177      725        428       464
Nettransfers                                 68   -1,187        152       341
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/17/01



