                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR0000233




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (Loan 4649-BR)

                                  ON A

                                  LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                  TO THE

                            STATE OF SERGIPE

                                  FOR A

                  RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT


                              January 31, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2006 )
                            Currency Unit = Real
                                 Real 1.00 = US$ 0.462
                                 US$ 1.00 = Real 2.164


                                     Fiscal Year
                              January 1 - December 31




                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEMA   State Environmental Agency
BCR     Borrower Completion Report
BNE     Bank of the Northeast
CA      Community Association
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDD     Community-driven Development
COFIEX  Federal Commission for External Financing
COHIDRO State Water Concession Company
CONDEM  Municipal Development Council (same as FUMAC)
DEAGRO  State Agricultural Development Department
DESO    State Sanitation Company
FUMAC   Municipal Community Scheme
FUMAC-P Pilot Municipal Community Fund
GOB     Government of Brazil
HDI     United Nations Human Development Index
IBGE    Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
IPEA    Brazilian Institute for Agricultural Research and Studies
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
NRDP    Northeast Rural Development Program
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PAC     State Community Scheme
PPA     State Government Multi-year Investment Plan
PRONAF  Federal Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture
PRONESE Sustainable Development Company of Sergipe (State Technical Unit)
R-NRDP  Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program (1993-1996)
RPAP    Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (1995-2002)
RPRP    Rural Poverty Reduction Program (2000-present)



                                        - ii -

SEBRAE    Brazilian Service for Assistance to Small Business
SEPLANTEC State Secretariat for Planning, Science and Technology
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
STU       State Technical Unit




                                      Vice President: Pamela Cox

                                    Country Director: John Briscoe

                                      Sector Director: Laura Tuck

                                Project Team Leader: Jorge A. Munoz




                                          - iii -

                                        Brazil
                Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe



                                    CONTENTS
                                                                                       Page No.


1. Basic Information....................................................................... 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................1
3. Ratings Summary..........................................................................1
4. Sector and Theme Codes.................................................................2
5. Bank Staff.................................................................................2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..............................3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes..............................5
8. Assessment of Outcomes...............................................................13
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................21
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance....................................22
11. Lessons Learned..........................................................................23
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower Implementing Agencies/Partners....24

Annex 1: Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2: Restructuring
Annex 3: Project Costs and Financing
Annex 4: Outputs by Component
Annex 5: Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 7: Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 8: Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 9: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 10: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 11: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 12: List of Supporting Documents
Annex 13: List of Footnotes




                                        - iv -

1. Basic Information
                                                                       Rural Poverty
Country:                Brazil                 Project Name:           Reduction Project -
                                                                       Sergipe
Project ID:             P074085                L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-46490
ICR Date:               01/31/2007             ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                       STATE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:               GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                       SERGIPE
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 20.8M              Disbursed Amount:       USD 20.8M

Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies

SEPLANTEC
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/10/2000           Effectiveness:      04/10/2002        04/10/2002
Appraisal:         06/26/2001        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          01/29/2002        Mid-term Review:                      11/17/2004
                                     Closing:            06/30/2006        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No             Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                           - - 1 - -

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      21                25
General public administration sector                                  15                10
Other social services                                                 22                20
Power                                                                 21                25
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 21                20
                                                         Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other social protection and risk management               Primary          Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                        Secondary        Primary
Rural policies and institutions                           Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                         Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                            At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                          Pamela Cox       David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                        John Briscoe     Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:                                          Laura Tuck       John Redwood
Project Team Leader:                                     Jorge A. Munoz   Luis O. Coirolo
ICR Team Leader:                                         Tulio Barbosa
ICR Primary Author:                                      Anna F. Roumani




                                              - - 2 - -

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
6.1 Context at Appraisal


The Project under review was part of an ongoing cluster of community-driven development
(CDD) projects in the Northeast region of Brazil - the Rural Poverty Reduction Program (RPRP)
- representing US$414 million of loans either under supervision or processing. The program's
distinctive methodology of community associations, participatory Municipal Councils and the
direct transfer of project funds to beneficiaries for approved, small-scale socio-economic and
productive investments, evolved out of a successful pilot component of the federally-financed
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), a traditional integrated rural development
program launched in 1985 and reformulated in 1993.

The Northeast region includes nine states and part of a tenth, accounts for about 20% of Brazil's
total land area and 30% of its population, but contains 63% of the nation's poor and 70% of its
rural poor. Around 11.5 million people live in small rural communities and towns in a vast, semi-
arid zone which has posed major developmental challenges to federal, state and local
governments for generations. Lack of investment in socio-economic services including basic
infrastructure, health and education, frequent drought, a weak natural resource base, low labor
productivity and skewed landholding, have traditionally disadvantaged this region.

At appraisal, and despite improvements in the previous decade, the State of Sergipe still ranked
among the very poorest states of Brazil in terms of Human Development Index (HDI), (1) ­ see
footnotes, Annex 1) with well over half its population of 1.7 million classified as poor. Some 30%
or 511,000 people were rural. With the population in poverty defined as a person earning
between ¼ and ½ minimum wage per capita/month or around US$1.37 to US$2.73 per
capita/day, 64% of the rural population or some 73,000 rural families were living in poverty, with
a high proportion indigent. (2) Despite progress made by several generations of Bank-supported
projects and other, complementary state and federal programs, about 52% of rural households still
lacked piped water, 22% had no form of sanitation services and 23% lacked electricity, compared
to 8%, 3% and 1% respectively, for urban areas.

This Project was the first of a planned two-phase program of support to this state, approved by the
Federal Committee for External Financing (COFIEX) on October 26, 2000. In its approval,
COFIEX, acting under provisions of the new Fiscal Responsibility Law, divided the planned
operation of US$41.6 million into two loans of US$20.8 million each, with conditions for moving
to a second phase: (i) satisfactory implementation of phase one; (ii) disbursement of 50% of the
first loan; and (iii) commitment of an additional 25% of that loan.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


Rural poverty would be reduced by: (a) improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor
through better access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and support for
productive activities, using proven community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (b)
increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet their own
needs; (c) enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in
decision-making, through creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal
Councils; and (d) fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and projects at
the local level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, in



                                               - 1 -

priority-setting and in decision-making over resource allocation.

Key performance indicators as shown in the PAD were as follows: (i) 52,000 families to benefit
from subproject investments; (ii) subproject investments to generate incremental employment;
(iii) project beneficiaries to increase incomes; (iv) social welfare of Project beneficiaries to
increase; (v) social Capital Index (CPI) of Project Municipal Councils to increase; (vi) number of
Municipal Councils participating in priority-setting and decision-making on resource allocation
of project and non-project-funded development activities to increase; (v) total Project and non-
project financing allocated through the Municipal Council mechanism to increase; and (vi)
number of poor rural communities graduated to financial institutions for support of productive
activities. (3)



6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. See footnote 3 regarding indicators.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised



     · About 84% of the Project's targeted poor lived in remote, low density rural areas lacking
         basic infrastructure and with income primarily from farming and/or wage labor and the
         remainder in the rural periphery of municipal centers, where studies show headcount
         poverty is most severe.

     · Women, especially female-headed households, were targeted by the participatory
         methodology.

     · Secondary beneficiaries (of technical assistance/training) were community associations,
         participatory Municipal Councils and the State Technical Unit (PRONESE) (see 6.5).

     · Project area covered 71 of the state's total 75 municipalities. Eligible municipalities were
         defined by relative Municipal Human Development Index (HDI-M) ranking.                The
         poorest 35 municipalities would receive an indicative budget averaging R$244,000 per
         year (project total R$34.12 million), and 36 municipalities with an average
         R$128,000/year (total R$18.38 million). (4)

     · Some 52,000 families- small-holders, tenants, sharecroppers and landless laborers, about
         42% of the total rural population - were expected to benefit from at least one investment.



6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project comprised three components:

Component A: Community Subprojects (US$24.5 million, 89.2% of total cost): Matching grants
to rural community associations for about 1,000 infrastructure, productive and social subprojects
(up to US$50,000 each), identified by the associations as essential to improve community




                                               - 2 -

wellbeing.   This component comprised three subprograms or delivery mechanisms, PAC,
FUMAC and FUMAC-P.1 (5)

Component B: Institutional Development (US$1.5 million total, 5.4% of total cost):
Financed technical assistance and training for the STU, MC and community associations; and
technical assistance to the State Government to address modernization and reform issues relevant
to poverty reduction as part of the broader Bank-State policy dialogue.

Component C: Project Administration (US$1.5 million, 5.4% of total cost): Financed
incremental costs (excluding salaries) of Project administration and coordination including field
supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.

Component A mechanisms: (a) State Community Schemes (PAC): Rural communities submit
investment proposals to the State Technical Unit (STU) for screening/approval. STU releases
funds directly to them for approved subprojects; (b) Municipal Community Schemes
(FUMAC): Municipal Councils, with at least 80% of voting members from beneficiaries/civil
society, debate/approve investment priorities based on an annual indicative budget. STU reviews
proposals, and releases funds directly to associations for those approved; and (c) Pilot Municipal
Community Funds (FUMAC-P): More decentralized version of FUMAC. STU sets an annual
budget envelope based on a distribution formula. Councils submit an annual operating plan
(POA) to the STU which transfers funds to the Council to manage distribution to associations.

6.6 Revised Components

Not applicable

6.7 Other significant changes

Some US$4.4 million were reallocated among Loan categories in 2004(6) with about 56% of the
reallocated amount drawn from the FUMAC-P subprogram which did not reach its appraisal
target. The weight of community subproject demand and processing shifted almost entirely to the
FUMAC Municipal Council mechanism as a proven vehicle for cost-effective investments and
social capital formation. Further, the state decided to finance administrative modernization
activities under Component B using its own rather than Loan resources and, Category 2 funding
for consultants and training was under-utilized (see 7.2B). (6)

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory.

Soundness of the Background Analysis: The analytical foundation took the following into
account: (a) lessons and experiences of an immediate predecessor project (Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project, Ln.3919-BR) and similar projects in other, participating Northeast states,
documented and evaluated in Van Zyl et al. (2000), Costa (2001) and Implementation
Completion Reports (ICR); (b) strategic elements and recommendations of several Bank studies
and analytical work available at the time, particularly "Rural Poverty Reduction in Brazil:




                                               - 3 -

Towards an Integrated Strategy (Bank Report 21790, 2001); (c) the State Government's sector
and rural poverty policy/strategy; and (d) philosophical and methodological elements of the
Federal Government's then recently-launched Projeto Alvorada 2000-2002, a national framework
for poverty reduction in municipalities with lowest HDI, stressing decentralized approaches,
community self-help and local empowerment.

Methodological features were consistent with the goals of the FY00-02 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) which included: (i) strengthening the assets of the poor including access to basic
rural services; (ii) sustainable economic growth through improved infrastructure with private
sector participation; (iii) local development focusing on non-agricultural rural activities; and (iv)
social inclusion of poor families, their participation in the development process, and greater
transparency of public administration. (7)

Assessment of Project Design:          Project objectives were rational and achievable using the
mechanisms tested and consolidated under two previous programs/projects. The Project was
seen as part of a continuously evolving program subject to further innovation and refinement to
ensure successful scale-up, with the Bank's role also evolving over time. Project funds would
continue to flow directly to the associations for approved subprojects. Institutional simplicity was
a key feature. Key players were the community associations, participatory Municipal Councils
and the STU, with specialized agencies being brought in periodically and at the local level, to
provide defined services.

Strategic upgrades included: (i) targeting resources based on relative municipal Index of
Human Development (HDI-M); (ii) an impact evaluation program of independently executed
repeater surveys of beneficiaries and control panels; (iii) using Project matching grants as seed
capital, enabling organized communities to graduate to regular credit once they had gained
experience with one grant-based productive subproject; (8) (iv) expanding a successful
information technology pilot promoting e-transparency and community access via internet to
national (and potentially) international markets; and (v) expanding Municipal Councils' role in
local planning by scaling up an emerging tendency of Councils to prioritize/allocate parallel,
complementary, non-project resources.

Poverty and Social Aspects: The PAD cites likely poverty impacts as enhanced productivity,
increased family incomes, job creation, income diversification, improved social indicators and/or
reduced vulnerability to drought. Expanded geographic coverage and extended reach and
potential of the participatory Councils, especially in facilitating accurate targeting of benefits,
were sought. The integration objective would increase the volume of non-project financing
available for rural poverty reduction. Women were expected to benefit specifically from water
supply, electricity and social investments through improved family health, and time savings
freeing them to seek paying jobs and contribute to family cash incomes. Differentiated targeting
of resources based on relative municipal HDI would ensure inclusion of the poorest communities.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment: The State Government was committed to the Project
financially, methodologically and politically at the outset. The state's experiences under the R-
NRDP and RPAP phases in Sergipe had been positive and with state elections scheduled for late
2002, support was assured. The State Technical Unit (PRONESE) was an experienced body with
a substantial track record and real autonomy from its parent Secretariat of Planning, Science and
Technology (SEPLANTEC, which supported the project and had promoted it widely). Objective
conditions on the ground in rural Sergipe underscored the socio-economic and political
imperatives of increasing project coverage.


                                                - 4 -

Risk Assessment: The main risks were correctly identified by careful review of the previous
project and knowledge of state/rural conditions.           However, some risk mitigation measures
suggested at appraisal were, with hindsight, not necessarily relevant, sufficient or effective in
face of real events, e.g., risks of a political and/or legal nature.

7.2 Implementation

The Project used a Design Summary which was an adequate outline of project management and
implementation. The MIS and PRONESE's regular reports measured Project achievements
against appraisal physical targets while specialized reports (i.e., for the Mid-term Review and
Completion) measured physical quality and beneficiary perceptions of life changes. Formal,
phased evaluation was not established. The Project was not formally declared at risk but task
management considered this option during the protracted Utilidade Publica dispute (see below)
which virtually paralyzed the Project.

Mid-Term Review: A Mid-term Review (MTR) mission defined and discussed certain issues
requiring PRONESE's focused attention, but no rationale was seen to change project objectives,
components or funding allocations.

Main Recommendations: (i) tighter monitoring and refinement of Councils' targeting practices
and performance; (ii) work closely with municipalities whose Councils required changes to
membership to reflect Project requirements that beneficiary representatives be in the majority;
(iii) strengthened information dissemination activities to ensure that Councils and associations
had accurate, consistent information about Project rules, standards and investment options; (iv)
providing Councils with an annual indicative budget and access to operating funds; (v) greater
proactivity on training and technical assistance for the Councils, to advance Project integration
and other objectives.

Physical Performance Study (EDF): An independent Physical Performance Study (Hydros
2004) conducted for the MTR, surveyed a representative sample of 55 subprojects out of 380
financed at the time of the MTR (25 social, 20 infrastructure and 10 productive) distributed in 40
municipalities and benefiting about 2,000 families. Key results showed:

     · High levels of beneficiary satisfaction (89%), good quality construction and high
         community utilization rates of subprojects. Some 89% were judged to be fully achieving
         their objectives, rising to 100% for certain types, e.g., housing improvements,
         tractors/equipment, household water cisterns, community laundry facilities and multi-use
         community centers. Others such as electricity and domestic sanitation also received high
         ratings.

     · Benefits tended to remain in the communities: 85% of subprojects benefited community
         members individually, while in 15% of cases (bridges, electricity and tractor) benefits
         extended outside the community. Subproject execution was monitored by PRONESE in
         100% of cases (verified by BCR (2006)) interviewees, and entailed three visits
         programmed around specific stages of the subproject cycle.                Beneficiaries were
         responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M) in 92% of cases through user fees
         and/or dedicated funds.

     · Sustainability was considered highly probable in 100% of all investments in
         tractors/equipment, electricity, multi-use centers, health posts, irrigation subprojects with



                                                   - 5 -

      hydrometer, information technology, community laundry and small-scale clothes-making
      facilities. Stronger O&M arrangements were recommended for concrete bridges, and
      assumed by the municipal mayors.

A. Factors supporting successful implementation:

   · Experienced Councils: The pre-existence of 68 experienced Councils - virtual blanket
      coverage of the project-eligible area - enabled the Project to recover rapidly once
      political/legal difficulties affecting execution in the first year to 18 months, were
      resolved/reduced (see below).

   · Governors' Support: The Project was supported by successive State Governors ready to
      intervene on behalf of the Project when/if needed, and who ensured regular/adequate
      counterpart funding.

   · Experienced Technical Staff: Technical and administrative staff in PRONESE were
      experienced and committed, with a track record of successfully coordinating similar,
      previous operations.       Their stability and creativity under the difficult operating
      conditions associated with repeated managerial turnover and associated shifts in strategy
      and emphasis in PRONESE, helped the Project maintain momentum and
      compensated for deficiencies.

   · STU Autonomy: PRONESE's institutional/legal status changed in 2003 to Sustainable
      Development Company of the State of Sergipe, giving it greater autonomy and its own
      permanent staff.

   · Bank Supervision: Effective Bank supervision, decentralized location of the Bank's
      Recife Office, and rigorous Mid-term Review and appropriate follow-up, enabled a
      troubled Project to achieve its primary investment targets without extension of the
      Closing Date.

B. Factors hindering implementation.

   · Utilidade Publica Law: Party-political rivalries associated with the 2002 state elections
      led the State Electoral Court to halt financing by PRONESE of subprojects submitted by
      community associations lacking the legal status of "utilidade publica " (public
      utility). All community associations state-wide were affected but the poorest, least
      organized communities were hardest hit.       Despite strong Bank representation to state
      authorities, attempts by the State Government to nullify the order and direct intervention
      by the State Governor, this obstacle persisted for about 18 months until an exemption
      was secured for Project associations.

   · Executive Turnover:        Three changes of Secretary of Planning and five turnovers of
      PRONESE's Executive Director (President) and senior managers, as well as the effects of
      State elections following Effectiveness complicated execution. Resulting fluctuations
      in capacity, philosophy and approach were described by PRONESE line personnel as
      "extremely prejudicial" to basic Project activities and to established technical and
      administrative routines/practices.

   · Indicative Budgets:      Overlooking provisions of the Operational Manual and despite the
      Bank's strong advocacy during the MTR and regular supervision, PRONESE did not
      inform Municipal Councils of their annual indicative budgets (a risk cited at appraisal).
      PRONESE seems to have assumed Councils had the Operational Manual - many did not
      - which did show appraisal estimates of average amounts for 1st and 2nd priority



                                              - 6 -

        municipalities. Varying effects included: (i) skewed annual planning and targeting of
        investment priorities and resource allocations, which were not based on real funds
        available; (ii) community disappointment when anticipated subprojects did not arrive;
        and, (iii) erosion, to varying degrees, of community confidence in association leadership
        and their Councils.

    · Council Operating Expenses:            PRONESE did not inform the Councils of the
        Operational Manual provision that a small percentage of each subproject cost be
        available to defray operating expenses, even after the MTR highlighted this deficiency.
        Varying effects on Councils' operations, potential sustainability and autonomy are
        expressed in BCR (2006) interviews with Council leaders and members.
        Councils compensated by leveraging assistance from mayors, NGOs, labor unions and
        others. PRONESE tacitly expected the mayors to assume this role but did not brief them
        accordingly, nor ensure that Councils actually had the Manual.

    · Municipal Law: As noted in 7.1 and detailed in 8.4(a), Municipal Councils are governed
        by municipal law and their composition (ratio of beneficiary community members with
        voting rights to public authorities) can only be changed by modifying those laws.
        Inability to do this reduced the flexibility of some Councils, affecting their targeting
        decisions and in some cases, their ability to process community association proposals at
        all, because they did not comply with project representation standards.

    · Training Programs: PRONESE technicians developed annual training proposals for the
        Councils, associations and PRONESE itself, but management tended to favor
        investments over training, resulting in lack of approval and/or funding for training. To
        compensate, PRONESE technical staff were creative and resourceful, using regular field
        supervision visits to conduct onsite, learning-by-doing training of associations and
        Councils.

    · Information Dissemination:          Evidence from the Mid-term Review fieldwork, and
        surveys for the BCR (2006) suggest that the Project needed more consistent publicity in
        the countryside. Communities and Councils in certain areas lacked standardized,
        complete information about Project objectives, permitted investments, and the
        role/functions of the Municipal Councils.

    · Release of Financing:        A consistent critique in the BCR (2006) is PRONESE's delayed
        release of second/subsequent financing installments for approved subprojects, causing
        some disruption of subproject implementation. While bureaucratic processes were a
        factor, PRONESE was also intent on rigorous fiscal control over funds, requiring that
        associations submit statements of accounts after each installment (prestação de contas), a
        process subject to delay depending on individual cases.



7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A. Management Information System (MIS): The Project Design Summary (PAD, Annex 1)
represented a reference point for Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Analysis of project
implementation drew on a database of subproject information from the MIS featuring similar,
linked, real-time systems in all participating states.        Upgrades at appraisal included: (i)
integration of a the subproject information, financial management and project management
modules; and (ii) expanded database to include community profiles collected from community
members at the time they submitted a subproject proposal.



                                                - 7 -

MIS/Graduation: Appraisal intended that the MIS monitor the increased share of the rural poor
population covered by basic socio-economic infrastructure, as well as the share of the rural poor
receiving grant financing for productive subprojects and subsequently graduating to commercial
credit. For the latter, appraisal envisaged the MIS as a source of information on communities
with productive investments and experience, for commercial banks interested in taking them on
as clients (e.g., Bank of the Northeast, BN). The Project did not activate this strategy, missing a
key opportunity to establish a systematic link between poor communities and formal credit
institutions.(9) (See also 8.1).

MIS/Supervision and Evaluation : MIS data provided an effective support to the regular project
supervision cycle, MTR, Physical Performance Study (Hydros, 2004), auditing, financial
management reporting, the BCR and the ICR. But, while state of the art in key respects, the MIS
remained essentially a database on the subproject cycle, physical performance and fiduciary
aspects, not acquiring the envisaged capacity to measure changes in and linkages between project
investments and wellbeing/welfare, poverty reduction and/or changes in behavior.

B. Evaluation Program:           Annual physical performance reviews to assess quality and
sustainability and a mid-term implementation review including beneficiary surveys were
successfully completed. However, the evaluation framework (baseline, repeater surveys, control
groups) prepared as a condition of Effectiveness did not become operational. Protracted Bank
negotiations with PRONESE sought the state's inclusion in a planned, five-state, baseline
exercise by the reputable Fundação Economia de Campinas, State University of Campinas, São
Paulo (FECAMP). Sergipe had no contract with the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in
Agriculture (IICA) through which FECAMP could be retained and the State Attorney General
delayed a decision. Sergipe then contracted another entity for the baseline study but the resulting
draft report was unacceptable and dropped. In a final effort, the Bank sought Sergipe's inclusion
in the Binswanger quasi-experimental study in late 2005, but MIS-based community entry profile
data did not meet study standards for use as subject and control panels, and the effort was
abandoned.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

Environment: The Project was assigned a "B" environmental classification due to the relatively
small scale of subprojects and experience gleaned from executing the RPAP-Sergipe (1996-
2000). Few subprojects presented adverse environmental effects. An established Environmental
Checklist was revised and upgraded, and incorporated in the Operational Manual (OM) which
specified environmental criteria, screening and enforcement procedures. Standardized designs
with environmental parameters were used for certain types of subprojects with potentially
adverse effects (e.g., manioc mills, water supply systems with desalinization equipment, tractors
and equipment). For exceptional subproject types lacking standardized criteria, detailed
environmental analysis and screening were standard practice. PRONESE had an environmental
specialist on staff plus access to similar expertise in state agencies. Training packages for
participating communities and Municipal Councils routinely incorporated environmental
awareness messages. Supervision missions discussed environmental monitoring.

Salomé Lake Rehabilitation: PRONESE showed leadership through its integrated approach to
environmental matters, partnering with various state and local government agencies (COHIDRO,


                                               - 8 -

EMDAGRO, ADEMA, DESO, Secretariats of Health and Education, municipal mayors and the
project Municipal Councils) to clean up the polluted Salomé Lake in the region of the Lower São
Francisco River.       The Project financed a series of important environmental recuperation
activities: the delimitation of lake margins, urbanization of certain areas for leisure
activities, installation of drainage systems and relocating/upgrading certain economic facilities.
This innovative and successful experience prompted inclusion of a new design element ­
environmental recovery investments ­ in the follow-on project.

Indigenous Peoples: Project design did not address indigenous peoples. Sergipe has a small,
officially-recognized indigenous population of about 300 families of the Xokó ethnic grouping
and they did participate in the Project. The Operational Manual for the follow-on project defines
a framework of guidelines and specific procedures for engaging indigenous peoples in project
activities.   Experience in Sergipe and other participating Northeast states shows that such
communities are clearly capable of expressing their needs, defining priorities and administering
resources received. Further, innate cultural characteristics mean that they respond favorably to
the associative project methodology, organizing rapidly, participating in the Municipal Councils
and operating/maintaining their investments communally.

Fiduciary Aspects

Procurement:       At Appraisal, PRONESE's procurement risk was classified as Low. A Bank
Procurement Post Review mission in May 2006 found PRONESE's management of procurement
satisfactory overall, conducted within reasonable time limits and in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.

    ·     Hydros (2004) found that three bids were obtained and the lowest bid was selected in all
cases; in 62% of cases, the communities themselves handled this function and in 38% it was done
by the firms contracted by the communities. Associations contributed their minimum 10% cost
share in labor in 60% of cases, materials in 1.8% and cash in 3.6%. In 34.6% of cases,
beneficiaries contributed in other ways, e.g., for rural electrification, the local power concession
firm discounted the price by 10% to account for the required community contribution. Average
cost of all subprojects financed was just over US$25,000 (the permitted ceiling was US$50,000).

    ·     Hydros also found community-based procurement to be rapid and efficient. Subproject
costs were well within acceptable Project parameters (including PRONESE market-based
reference prices), in 95% of cases. Associations proved shrewd in their use of approved funding,
expanding their subproject or making other community investments through economies/savings
on original estimated budgets. Beneficiary communities routinely formed the required
procurement committee of three members to select and contract suppliers, then monitoring
subproject execution to conclusion. Technical assistance and/or training were provided to support
this process. The STU exercised overall quality control.

    ·      Acquisitions by PRONESE itself were few and of small value. PRONESE rarely
contracted consultants - mainly for the Mid-Term Report and Physical Performance Study,
annually for auditing purposes, and on a more constant basis, civil engineers to supervise
infrastructure subprojects.

Financial Management (FM):               Despite initial difficulties resulting from turnover in
PRONESE's financial administration team, sound FM routines were established rapidly. The
Project was periodically evaluated by a Bank Financial Management Specialist during its


                                                - 9 -

implementation for compliance with OP/BP 10.02 and the new Guidelines for Assessment of
Financial Management Arrangements: in 2005 when it received a clean overall opinion; and
again in 2006, with the same outcome.        The report found that PRONESE's organizational
structure was adequate for its activities, with experienced financial, accounting and MIS-
dedicated personnel and an MIS capable of emitting Financial Reports in the FMR format
required by the Bank and on time.

Audit performance:       Audit reports were generally of good quality and with one (partial)
exception, Unqualified. Any issues associated with audits, and auditor's recommendations, were
addressed promptly by PRONESE to the Bank's satisfaction.

Disbursement: No issues were encountered in disbursement management or with state
counterpart funding.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Operation and Maintenance: Transition arrangements to regular operations mean, in the context
of the Northeast CDD program, execution of a subproject, its official release by the State to the
community association (which legally and technically owns the investment), and launching
O&M under pre-established rules and procedures for this phase. Hydros (2004) found that
sustainability had a high probability in 100% of subproject types comprising a majority of
investments (e.g., electrification, tractors, small-scale irrigation). Several other types of
investments by nature more difficult to operate and maintain and requiring more training and TA,
had variable sustainability.

The BCR (2006) found that 40% of surveyed beneficiaries were paying user fees derived from
income generated by their subproject and/or paying a monthly fee into an O&M fund. Typical of
Sergipe, O&M funds are often used as seed capital/savings for expanding subprojects through
purchases of supplementary equipment/parts. Another 48% were relying on the Mayor/municipal
authorities, the local energy company (Energipe) and DESO (Sergipe State Sanitation Company)
to maintain their investments, not surprising given that 35% of total Project investments
comprised electricity, sanitation and other investments entailing technical and safety limits on
communities' ability to manage their O&M.

The BCR (2006) confirmed that the Municipal Councils play an important role in promoting
proper O&M practices: (i) providing guidance to beneficiary associations on the correct use and
maintenance of their facilities; (ii) requiring payment of maintenance fees (e.g., 10% of
production in the case of manioc mills; R$10/hour for use of tractors, with higher rates for non-
member users); (iii) requiring that beneficiaries of livestock subprojects return to the association
an agreed number of offspring every two years; (iv) fostering partnerships with NGOs/agencies
to facilitate O&M while encouraging producers to diversify production; and (v) training
beneficiaries and conducting exchanges of experiences between communities, on O&M
practices.

Follow-on Operation:       The Sergipe Integrated Project: Rural Poverty, a follow-on SIL of
US$20.8 million (total cost of US$28 million), is awaiting negotiation. While continuing to
focus on rural areas, this project would integrate closely with other ongoing Bank operations in
Sergipe such as PROAGUA (Federal Water Resources Management Project) and with federal
and state-funded programs including Luz Para Todos, Sergipe Cidadão, Erradicação das Casas
de Taipa, Ta na Mesa, Pro-Mulher and the Sustainable Development Program for the Semi-Arid


                                               - 10 -

Region (IDB operation). These programs together are expected to leverage complementary,
parallel funding of around US$10 for each US$1 of Bank loan resources, for project
beneficiaries.

The proposed new project is expected to contribute to raising the state's Human Development
Index (HDI) from 0.682 to 0.710 over the project period by: (i) strengthening cross-sector
integration of rural investments; (ii) greater emphasis on education, health, culture, natural
resources management and environmental sustainability; and (iii) scaling up impact by using the
skills, social capital and experience of the project Municipal Councils to improve the relevance,
efficiency, sustainability, targeting and outcomes of non-project activities in rural Sergipe.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


Rating: High Overall Relevance

Project objectives continue to have high overall relevance to the state, and design remains
appropriate. For this reason, the follow-on operation requested by the State Government and
waiting negotiation is similar in its objectives and main idea, retains the same implementation
framework and institutional mechanisms ­ the associations and Municipal Councils ­ with the
same components, division of resources and geographic coverage. Certain innovations would be
mainstreamed and new types of investments introduced. The new Project is consistent with the
current Brazil Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, FY04-07) which indicates that future CDD
projects under the Northeast Rural Poverty Reduction Program would: (i) use the respective state
development strategies as a framework; and (ii) scale up impact significantly by integrating more
closely with other federal and state programs, Bank lending and projects supported by other
donors.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The following assessments of poverty impact and wellbeing effects, as well as social capital
formation use Physical Performance Study (Hydros 2004), the field surveys conducted in 2006
for the Borrower Completion Report, extrapolations from FECAMP evaluation studies in Bahia,
Ceara and Pernambuco (2004), and the research on social capital of Costa (1994-2006) and Costa
and Rizvi (2003).

A. Improving the wellbeing and incomes of the rural poor through better access to basic social
and economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using proven
community-driven development techniques:

    · It is likely that the Project achieved/will achieve this objective, having financed around
         1,030 community investments in basic infrastructure, productive and social facilities,
         established as the priority of 660 community associations representing around 137,000
         people, and debated/approved for financing (in the vast majority of cases) by 70
         Municipal Councils.

    · Hydros (2004) and BCR (2006) found sampled subprojects completed, operational, well-
         maintained, with construction of good quality, and delivering expected benefits to
         communities. Both studies reported high ratings for community satisfaction. About 82%
         of Hydros interviewees said their quality of life had improved, mirrored by the 81% of



                                               - 11 -

  BCR interviewees who testified similarly.

· Poverty reduction is intimately linked to improved quality of life and access to the means
  to launch productive activities. Numerous BCR statements support the community and
  family wellbeing impact of these investments: improved financial situation in the home,
  increased production, increased planting and harvest, acquisition of agricultural
  equipment, crop diversification, increased area cultivated and reduced costs, purchase
  and use of domestic appliances, better health, access to learning, information and job
  opportunities, and better access to local government, roads, electricity, water and
  markets.

· BCR (2006) reported that following implementation of their subproject, 44% of
 respondents obtained new financing, including from PRONAF credit lines A, B, C and
 D, (10) additional subprojects under the Project, and rural credit through the Bank of
 Brazil (BB) and Bank of Northeast Brazil (BNB). (11)

· The impact of similar investments has been measured and documented in formal
  evaluations in other participating Northeast states including most recently, Bahia,
  Pernambuco and Ceará (see FECAMP, 2005). The economic and financial analysis
  quantifies the impact and efficiency of a range of productive investments typical of the
  program (for which fieldwork included Sergipe) and of specific investments under this
  Project in Sergipe (see Annex 5). (12)

· Rural electrification investments for example, deliver numerous benefits, powering
  power homes, schools, streets, small businesses and shops, agro-processing units and
  pumps; improving security, and permitting night school and literacy classes, food and
  medicine conservation, improved productivity from small-scale irrigation and processing
  facilities and access to information. FECAMP (2004) found high ratings for quality of
 life improvements, household comfort and access to news/events. Families reported
 increased food consumption, higher incomes from more complex productive activities,
 increased use of domestic appliances and increased property values.

· Water supply for human consumption/use delivers rapid benefits: normal access to a
  clean, safe, water source; improved household wellbeing; reduced time spent fetching
  water from often distant locations; and lower incidence of chronic gastric and other
  illnesses. Secondary impacts include ability to construct regular hygiene facilities, and
  increased property values. Basic water supply systems with domestic connection and
  household cisterns register especially high ratings from beneficiaries. Small-scale
  reservoirs have important productive effects, permitting irrigated agriculture, animal
  herding, increased herd size and new crops, but these take longer to develop. State and
  municipal fiscal costs for providing trucked water to dry or drought-stricken rural areas,
  is greatly reduced by water supply investments.

· Productive subprojects for employment and income generation were 162% of appraisal,
  with tractors and equipment predominating.      Tractor investments are sought after and
 have major direct and indirect benefits (Annex 5: see cost-effectiveness of typical
 productive investments). FECAMP studies in other Northeast states demonstrate the
 extent to which tractors create employment, bring additional agricultural land into
 production, increase production, reduce time spent on labor-intensive agricultural
 activities, increase the number of crops per year and create new productive opportunities.

· Small-scale agro-industries have important, measured impacts including increased and
  better quality product for sale, and the processing of materials previously discarded.
  Beneficiary responses reveal the inherent challenges of productive subprojects - technical



                                        - 12 -

       assistance, marketing plans, credit - which are well-documented by FECAMP and others,
       and represent a road map for planned efforts in Sergipe and other states, to intensify such
       investments using more rigorous feasibility standards and organized inputs (credit, TA).

   · Housing construction (casas populares) replaces the common taipa housing with its
       attendant health threats, particularly the transmission of Chagas disease. Houses are
       constructed by mutirão (collectively), tend to be demanded by the poorest communities,
       employ standardized designs and materials and greatly improve family comfort, health,
       security and privacy. Construction quality is generally excellent.

B. Increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet their own
needs.

   · Evidence suggests this objective is being achieved. The BCR (2006) represents a window
       onto communities' self-analysis regarding their evolution under the participatory Project
       mechanisms which require collective action. About 71% said their subproject was the
       direct result of collective action, and association and community "ownership" of the
       subproject.

   · 85% of interviewees felt their direct collective involvement in executing their subproject
       assisted its construction per se, monitored/controlled use of the funds and the purchase of
       materials, built understanding about resource use and what the process entailed as
       opposed to "just signing papers brought by the mayor", and helped them fight for more
       investments.

   · 65% of BCR (2006) interviewees believed that:               they had open access to the
       Project; their association worked to achieve their subprojects; a strong, united
       community could achieve more; they now had knowledge, the right way and the
       resources; their associations helped people who lacked conditions to reduce their
       poverty; their community leaders brought people together to obtain subprojects; and,
       their subprojects were approved because of their associations.

   · As noted in 8.4(a), striking gains in both participation and empowerment were made by
       women, through the Project's institutional and governance structure.

   · FECAMP (2003) showed that the change in structural social capital occurs more
       intensively in communities which have implemented subprojects. The attainment of
       immediate, concrete benefits is indispensable to maintaining the organizational goals of
       the community association beyond subproject completion.

   · Costa and Rizvi (2003) found that when compared with community associations without
       subprojects, associations benefited by the Program are more capable of: (i) responding to
       communal demands; (ii) resolving internal conflicts; (iii) effectively advocating for their
       membership; (iv) mobilizing financial and human resources; and (v) solving local
       problems for the community.

C. Enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in decision-
making, through the creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal
Councils.

   · Councils:      This objective was substantially achieved, with more work to be done. As
       noted above, most of the project Councils pre-existed the Project and already had varying
       degrees of experience in open decision-making, program resource allocation and poverty
       targeting. An additional three Councils established blanket coverage of all project-
       eligible municipalities, ensuring that all subproject proposals passed through their


                                              - 13 -

        decision-making format.

    · The MTR mission found how social capital formation breeds capacity for independent
        innovation. In Porto da Folha Municipality, the Council was deliberating within three
        separate "chambers" set up to help communities access the Project itself, Crédito
        Fundiário (Bank-supported federal land reform program) and the National Family
        Agriculture Program (PRONAF). In Itabaianinha, the Council maintained a full slate of
        integration activities involving other government programs and diverse community-
        related issues. In both cases, Councils were active year-round.

    · Councils supported communities in preparing subproject proposals and statements of
        expenditure, and monitored subproject execution, while acting as a conduit between the
        communities and PRONESE.          Most Councils met regularly to receive and analyze
        community proposals, showed a clear commitment to participation and recognized the
        importance of transparent, open discussions.

    · PRONESE put a major effort, within the limitations described in 7.2 and through the
        creative approach of its technical staff, in stabilizing, training and increasing the capacity
        of the Municipal Councils to assume a wider set of responsibilities, particularly the
        integration of programs.    Nevertheless, the BCR (2006) suggests that the decisions of
        some Councils were still not adequately consultative. The next project will address such
        issues directly because they are central to the program philosophy.

    · Associations:      By Closing, about 660 community associations had been created as a
        direct response to the Project and strengthened through direct engagement in the cycle of
        selecting, executing, operating and maintaining their subproject, with assistance from
        various sources (PRONESE technicians, NGOs, the Brazilian Service for Support to
        Small and Micro Business (SEBRAE), rural labor unions and public agencies). Some
        86% of beneficiaries surveyed for the BCR (2006) commented vigorously and positively
        on the personal/collective growth effects of the subproject cycle and their organized
        participation in it.

    · Associations were also trained/supported to access Project benefits, prepare expenditure
        statements, handle O&M and in associative action. Most training was organized through
        multi-agency and multi-sector workshops and several large events involving the
        Northeast state governors, federal and state authorities, Council leadership, and other
        stakeholders.    PRONESE's impetus to mobilize associations in the initial period was
        dampened by the utilidade publica law. Subsequently, formal training was hampered by
        weak support from PRONESE senior management.

    · The institutional structure developed by these projects in Sergipe is changing local
        governance, importantly because evolving social capital is altering both horizontal and
        vertical relationships between poor communities and local/state authorities.

D. Fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and projects at the local
level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, in priority-
setting and in decision-making over resource allocation.

    · The Project achieved this objective.          The State Government and PRONESE acted
        forcefully on ways to mesh Project-financed facilities with state rural sector policies and
        decision-making. Subproject proposals had to be consistent with the PPA. Training for
        Councils shifted to developing their understanding of the types of investments consistent
        with this approach. (13)

    · Within this evolving framework, the Project expanded the role and responsibilities of the



                                               - 14 -

        project Municipal Councils to include debate, decision-making and resource allocation
        for other programs: Crédito Fundiário (Federally-financed, Bank-supported agrarian
        reform); Revitalization of Citriculture Program (State-financed orange grove
        rehabilitation); Luz para Todos (Eletrobras/Ministry of Mines and Energy, universal
        access to electricity); and Projeto de Inclusão Digital, (State Secretariat of Education,
        information technology training for youth).

    · Integration of the Project with these programs involved about one-half of all Councils in
        decisions affecting an aggregate US$45.0 million of parallel, complementary resources,
        of which the Project's share was around US$10.5 million, a ratio of 1:4. As implied, not
        all Councils were equally capable of executing this broader mandate, for which
        intensified support is planned under the new project.



8.3 Efficiency

The following analysis applies to Component A, Community Subprojects which comprised about
90% of total project cost. The analysis is not Project-specific but contributing state field surveys
included Sergipe and the productive subprojects analyzed are typical of productive investments
under this Project.

Cost effectiveness: Several aspects of project design help to ensure that subproject investments
represent the least-cost, best alternative.

    · Demand-driven subproject selection helps ensure that resources flow where they are
        most needed and chosen subprojects are the best alternatives for targeted communities.

    · Standard technical designs (projetos padrão) and cost parameters for the most common
        forms of subprojects help ensure that community associations employ least-cost models
        for subproject implementation and decrease associated search and information costs.

    · Delegation of subproject implementation directly to community associations generates
        cost savings compared to similar type/quality works implemented by public sector
        agencies.

    · The contracting procedures in the Operational manual permit direct contracting by the
        associations, requiring that they solicit three bids for the subproject.

    · Analysis of a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which in aggregate
        represent 80% of all types of subprojects financed under the R-NRDP and RPAP),
        showed for infrastructure and social investments, that costs were 30-40% lower than
        state-executed subprojects of similar quality. (14)

Ex-post internal rates of return for the most common types of productive subprojects exceeded
30%, on average. Analyses assumed constant benefits over the subproject life cycle. Benefits are
concentrated largely in the beneficiary communities. Sensitivity analysis showed that these
subprojects tend to be reasonably robust vis-à-vis decreases in output and prices and increases in
production costs.

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main productive subprojects analyzed.
Analysis also suggests that these investments are generally financially sustainable. Although
beneficiary associations do receive a one-time matching grant, the investments tend to be
sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average beneficiary association is


                                               - 15 -

normally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of original investments before the end of
their useful economic life.

Direct fiscal impact of the Project depends on what the State would have done in the absence of
the Project. First, if the State had attempted to provide the basic services through traditional
delivery mechanisms, the fiscal savings are direct and significant (see cost effectiveness
discussion above).      Evaluations across the Northeast CDD program also indicate that a
significant fiscal contribution will accrue from cost savings associated with the reduced need for
state and local governments to provide certain services, due to project investments.

A Mid-term Review of the previous project (RPAP) in Sergipe concluded that estimated annual
savings from not having to use water trucks to provide communities with drinking water during
critical periods totaled R$0.5 million. In years of severe drought, as in 1998, savings were at least
double those of a normal year. Provision of better quality, reliable water supply also has less
quantifiable but nonetheless significant impacts on health, reducing Municipal public health
expenditures.

These projects also reduce the dependency of municipalities on central and state government
transfers by strengthening the capacity of local governments and communities to take
responsibility for their local economic and social development. Subproject O&M costs are
typically paid by the beneficiary communities, reducing the fiscal burden on municipalities and
states. The additional, highly cost-effective annual spending attributable to this Project
constituted less than 1% of total public expenditures in Sergipe in fiscal year 2004 and thus had
no significant impact on the fiscal position of the State.

Revenue generation direct impacts are modest, but indirect impact may be significant. Much of
the incremental production of subprojects is self-consumed, not liable to taxation, and/or
circulates in informal markets where tax is rarely paid. But it can imply a significant increase in
ICMS collected within poor municipalities in which this Project operated. Experiences under the
RPAP and RPRP indicate a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances
associated with communities' new access to electricity, appreciably increasing the ICMS revenue
to municipalities. This observation also applies to purchases of agricultural machinery and
irrigation equipment. (See Annex 5).

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


Rating: Satisfactory


     · Subproject financing exceeded the appraisal target in terms of investments financed
         (103%) but reached fewer beneficiaries (53%) than expected at appraisal because the
         demand profile was not as anticipated, including higher demand for investments which
         typically have fewer beneficiaries.

     · Direct evidence from beneficiaries suggests that the types of investments financed had a
         marked impact on family and community wellbeing and social capital formation, and
         paved the way either directly or indirectly, for increased employment and incomes.

     · Initial efforts to integrate complementary programs through the democratic processes of
         the Councils set the stage for similar, intensified activities under the follow-on.

     · HDI-M based targeting is workable and effective, albeit requiring strict oversight to



                                                 - 16 -

       ensure proportionality in the allocation of resources between cohorts. HDI-M will govern
       targeting under the new project in line with state rural policies/strategies.

    · The project validated an established feature of the Northeast CDD approach in piloting
       and scaling up innovations while preserving decentralized, participatory mechanisms,
       keeping the projects relevant to the Borrower's development goals and to the needs of
       poor communities.



8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Targeting:

    · P1 received an average R$242,288/year, slightly below the appraisal estimate but a
       satisfactory outcome indicating that PRONESE and the Councils sought to comply with
       Project intentions for the poorest. However, P2 received an average R$280,653/year,
       more than double what was intended.

    · Total Reais available for subproject investments were R$74.34 million rather than the
       R$52.50 estimated at appraisal due to: (i) substantial reallocation from other categories
       (see 6.6); (ii) strong devaluation of the Real in relation to the US dollar; and (iii)
       increased state counterpart contribution. P2 municipalities were the main beneficiaries,
       receiving 54.4% of total subproject funds and 54% of all subprojects.(15)

    · Suggested factors include: (i) proposal quality and viability issues of the poorer P1
       associations; (ii) subproject investments of P1 tending to be smaller and lower cost
       (housing improvements, household sanitation); (iii) changing sector policy objectives as
       the Project progressed (e.g., recuperation of citrus groves) which led PRONESE to dilute
       preferential targeting of the P1 municipalities; (iv) repeated leadership turnover in
       PRONESE preventing a consistent approach to Project targeting principles; and (v)
       politicization of the Project in some municipalities.

Gender Aspects:

    · This Project demonstrated the capacity of the Northeast Brazil CDD model to both
       include and empower women, contrary to the view that women participate but have no
       power.

    · Priority was given to subprojects with significant numbers of female-headed households,
       who constituted 40% of all families benefited by the Project.

    · Some 15% of all beneficiaries of rural electrification, 13% of housing investments (20%
       of all subprojects financed) and 11% of tractors were female-headed families. Houses
       renovated by the Project were registered in the woman's name where relevant. Women
       had dominant representation in clothes-making subprojects and several other types.

    · Project empowerment potential was validated. Hydros (2004) found that of the 41
       Councils surveyed, about 22% and 21% respectively, had female presidents and/or
       female officeholders. BCR (2006) found that 31% of all community associations at
       Closing were female-headed.        Performance of these Councils and associations was
       judged excellent by the MTR and BCR. Field evidence during the MTR and BCR




                                              - 17 -

        showed the proactivity of women in their communities, associations and Councils.

Social Development:

    · Quilombolas: Sergipe has six Quilombola (Afro-descendent) communities of which
        only one is officially recognized, and which participated in the Project and in the
        Municipal Council. Two subproject proposals were presented of which one was financed
        by the Project (tractor/equipment) and the other (water supply) by other state resources.

    · Youth: The Project established Nucleos de Inclusão Digital providing internet access
        training for 18 rural communities in 11 municipalities, benefiting 1,200 young people;
        and training for association members and community leaders in citizenship and
        professional qualification for service jobs, for another 1,600 young people. PRONESE
        saw youth as the ideal clients of such training, along with environmental training and
        formation of environmental protection "brigades". PRONESE also initiated courses in
        agricultural technology through workshops in schools, the goal being to foster a supply
        of specialized local technical assistance serving the Councils, and the Bank-supported
        Crédito Fundiário (agrarian reform) Project.



(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening


    · The Project contemplated modernization and reform-of-the-state activities under
        Component 2 Institutional Development but decided to use its own resources; these
        activities then fell outside the scope of the Project.

    · PRONESE technical staff benefited from seminars and workshops organized by the Bank
        and other entities, including in financial administration, planning and information
        technology. Qualitative results were satisfactory but quantity was deficient (Annex 4).



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts


    · The project financed a significantly higher number of productive subprojects, 324 vs
        200, 162% of the appraisal estimate. Given high levels of demand for such investments,
        their employment and income potential, and available knowledge of what promotes
        viability and sustainability, the follow-on project will need to maximize the quality of
        feasibility studies, foster partnerships to supply technical assistance for marketing and
        other inputs, and build the evaluation capacity to assess their poverty reduction effects.

    · The plan to systematically graduate associations with productive subprojects to
        mainstream sources of financing, building a performance database on such subprojects
        though the MIS, was not activated, being overtaken by events and the stress on achieving
        physical targets. This concept/plan merits renewed focus and takes on greater importance
        given the planned increase in productive investments under the follow-on project.

    · Environmental subprojects will become a mainstream investment category under the new
        project as a result of the successful Salome Lake recovery collaboration and evident
        community demand for such investments.




                                                - 18 -

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The extensive results/comments from communities and Municipal Councils incorporated
verbatim in the BCR are candid and illuminating. See IRIS4 and summary, Annex 8.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The longer-term sustainability of Project outcomes is fostered by:

    · strong indicators of sound operation and maintenance practices and/or arrangements by
        beneficiary associations;

    · the knowledge that 100% of subprojects decided, approved and financed are emerging
        from Councils already established and in most cases, now entering their third-round
        project, with the experience and social capital that implies;

    · intensified focus of the new project on expanding and deepening investment coverage in
        the 35 poorest municipalities already assisted under this phase, through investment
        integration and other means; and

    · greater commitment and more systematic efforts under the new project to training the
        Councils and associations and to developing technical assistance services in rural areas.



10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Satisfactory

The Banks's performance during preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory. This project was
the second since the full-scale R-NRDP (1993-1995) and its design reflected both state-specific
and more generic, program-related lessons, including from the Van Zyl (2000) study. Preparation
was marked by openness to further innovation, a focus on targeting benefits according to poverty
indices, and closer attention to consistency with state sector policy and strategy. The project
Team was experienced, understood the Project's genesis and potential (having been involved
since the early origins of the methodology in the Northeast), and enjoyed an especially strong
working relationship with PRONESE and state authorities.


(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Satisfactory


    · Project supervision was challenging from the outset as reflected in Aide Memoires and
        this ICR. Successive leadership changes involved the Bank in repeatedly mentoring new
        teams with their attendant bureaucracy, inexperience, divergent political philosophies and
        capabilities and uneven attention to key elements of the Project. Such unpredictability


                                              - 19 -

        and the attendant operational pitfalls can foil pre-defined risk mitigation measures,
        leaving the Project team dependent on its political skills, experience, patience and
        common sense.

    · Supervision was enhanced by: (i) proximity of the Bank's Recife Office to the project; (ii)
        experienced Team Leader, Task Manager and professionals with extensive knowledge of
        the region and Project CDD mechanisms; and (iii) longstanding working relationship
        with PRONESE's core technical and administrative staff which remained largely
        unchanged despite turnover at the top.

    · Supervision missions were equipped with an MIS-generated briefing document showing
        updated performance indicators and any apparent red flags for follow-up, plus an MIS-
        generated random sample of municipalities for field visits.

    · The Project team conducted a thorough MTR, with findings reported candidly during
        discussions with PRONESE and in the Aide Memoire, subsequently following up with
        PRONESE and where appropriate and realistic, directing comprehensive corrective
        action to the new project.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank steered the Project to a satisfactory conclusion under difficult conditions.         The
Northeast Rural Poverty Reduction Program, including Sergipe, was selected for presentation as
Best Practice in scaling up CDD approaches, at the 2004 Shanghai Poverty Conference. This is a
reflection of the program's consistent quality, willingness to innovate and ongoing relevance to
socio-economic conditions in the rural Northeast.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


    · State Government performance in providing counterpart funds was fully satisfactory.

    · Personal intervention by two State Governors (elections occurred several months after
        Effectiveness) helped secure an exemption for Project-sponsored associations from the
        utilidade publica requirement, permitting the Project to launch full-scale implementation.

    · Governors' decisions to repeatedly change the Secretary of Planning, with cascade effects
        on the leadership and top managers at PRONESE, politicized certain aspects of the
        Project and disrupted operations. Such decisions are, however, a Governor's prerogative
        and beyond the control of the Bank or involved state agencies.




                                              - 20 -

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




     · The Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology, PRONESE's parent institution, had
         a broad, oversight role but minimal operational contact with the Project. Its influence
         was chiefly through decisions to change the leadership in PRONESE, the impact of
         which is described above.

     · PRONESE managed, despite handicaps, to exceed its subproject financing target,
         making an especially strong effort to speed up subproject approvals/financing following
         resolution of the utilidade publica issue and, to simplify bureaucratic procedures after the
         Mid-term Review.

     · PRONESE supported innovative practices through the Inclusão Digital program, its
         environmental activism, and its official policy shift following the 2002 elections to
         officially require the integration of programs through the Councils and to link subproject
         financing to the Multi-Year Development Plan.

     · PRONESE cannot be held accountable for politically-motivated turnover in its top
         management, the utilidade publica situation or the targeting implications of municipal
         laws governing the Councils. PRONESE did collaborate with the Bank to surmount the
         resulting difficulties.

     · The ICR is critical of PRONESE management in several areas: (i) apparent discounting
         and under-financing of technical assistance and training under Component 2; (ii)
         inability and unwillingness to resolve bureaucratic, technical and other obstacles to
         establishing systematic impact evaluation; (iii) continued resistance to informing the
         Municipal Councils of their annual indicative budgets and the availability of operating
         funds, as provided for in the Operational Manual; and (iv) less than total/consistent
         commitment to Project targeting goals.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The combination of consistent government support on counterpart funding, PRONESE's positive
and successful approach to innovation and the determination of its core technical and
administrative personnel to overcome/bypass managerial, bureaucratic and political obstacles
to finance the targeted subprojects and complete the project on time, merit a Satisfactory rating
for overall Borrower performance.

11. Lessons Learned


The major, generic lessons of the Northeast Rural Poverty Reduction Program have been cited
repeatedly in analytical documents including ICRs. Project-specific lessons are as follows:

     · Alignment of project resources with relative HDI. The differentiation of municipalities
        and resource allocations based on HDI makes strategic and practical sense but



                                                - 21 -

        requires commitment to the principal and close monitoring. The follow-on project
        includes better definition of the types of investments likely to increase HDI in the poorest
        municipalities, and to conform even more closely to the state's poverty reduction strategy
        and PPA.

    · CDD is evolving from pure demand to tied demand with investments consistent with
        government's poverty policies/strategies and HDI-based poverty status. The rationale
        for communities' unfettered selection of investments based on genuine need and the
        social capital/empowerment benefits, is adapting to the imperatives of state rural poverty
        policies and strategies. The challenge is to preserve and consolidate the democratic
        mechanisms established for decentralized decision-making and resource allocation,
        sound targeting and cost-effective investment.

    · CDD mechanisms can improve the quality/targeting of non-project resources while
        leveraging complementary funding and intensifying poverty reduction efforts. Early
        indications are that channeling/integrating other complementary federal and state
        programs through the Municipal Councils has the potential to accelerate and intensify
        poverty reduction effects. The follow-on operation will expand this approach and
        evaluate the outcomes.

    · Political, legal and bureaucratic impediments to implementation require patient,
        skilled mitigation by the project supervision team. Issues affecting the project
        exposed limits on the Bank's ability to rapidly and/or completely resolve events of this
        type. Risk mitigation solutions devised at appraisal may need to define a series
        of measures and benchmarks for resolving such cases.

    · Indicative annual budgets for Municipal Councils improve planning and build
        confidence in the program. The Project proved that failure to notify Municipal Councils
        of their annual indicative budgets can skew their subproject priority-setting and planning,
        and potentially, erode community confidence in Councils and community leaders, and
        weaken or delay social capital formation.

    · Systematic impact evaluation remains elusive. Evaluation programs defined at appraisal
        must be launched promptly at Effectiveness as a top priority of project execution. A
        timely baseline study and follow-up/repeater survey with control panels must be
        completed within the life of each project. Parallel, complementary seminars/workshops
        can build a "culture" of evaluation. Evaluation should be a Loan covenant and n on-
        performance included in the project risk assessment.

    · CDD can effectively target poor rural women. Experience in Sergipe shows
        unequivocally that demand-driven institutional mechanisms not only enable women to
        access the benefits of community investments, but also provide important
        leadership/learning opportunities for women through the associations and Councils.



12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's letter of December 20, 2006 (see Annex 11) commenting on the Bank's draft ICR
is candid about the issues which affected the Project, as was the Borrower Completion Report.
The letter protests the rating of Moderately Satisfactory for PRONESE's performance and
emphasizes a list of positive attainments. This ICR is careful throughout to emphasize the
excellent performance of PRONESE's line technical and administrative staff, and to acknowledge



                                               - 22 -

those issues over which PRONESE had no control. However, certain deficiencies described and
the effects on the Project do not permit a fully satisfactory overall rating for PRONESE.


(b) Cofinanciers

NA


(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NA




                                               - 23 -

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Rural poverty would be reduced by: (a) improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor
through better access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and support for
productive activities, using proven community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (b)
increasing the social capital of rural communities to organize collectively to meet their own
needs; (c) enhancing local governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in
decision-making, through creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal
Councils; and (d) fostering closer integration of development policies, programs and projects at
the local level, by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding, in
priority-setting and in decision-making over resource allocation.

Key performance indicators as shown in the PAD were as follows: (i) 52,000 families to benefit
from subproject investments; (ii) subproject investments to generate incremental employment;
(iii) project beneficiaries to increase incomes; (iv) social welfare of Project beneficiaries to
increase; (v) social Capital Index (CPI) of Project Municipal Councils to increase; (vi) number of
Municipal Councils participating in priority-setting and decision-making on resource allocation of
project and non-project-funded development activities to increase; (v) total Project and non-
project financing allocated through the Municipal Council mechanism to increase; and (vi)
number of poor rural communities graduated to financial institutions for support of productive
activities.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO was not revised. See footnote 3 regarding indicators.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                              Original Target Values       Formally     Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline                                  Revised
                   Value           (from approval                          Completion or Target
                                     documents)              Target
                                                             Values                 Years

Indicator 1 :   Families benefited from subproject investments in basic socio--economic
                infrastructure.
Value
(quantitative
or              NA           52,000 families                           27,500

Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/10/2002 06/30/2006                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Due to (i) higher than expected demand and investment in subprojects with fewer

achievement)    beneficiaries; (ii) smaller size and dispersion of beneficiary communities.

Indicator 2 : Non-project funds leveraged through Municipal Councils and associations.
Value                        Not established at                        Councils and associations
(quantitative NA             appraisal. Activity                       leveraged parallel resources
or                           intended as a pilot                       in 1:4 ratio (US$10 m.



                                                 - 24 -

Qualitative)               initiative for expansion                 project funds to US$45 m.
                           under follow-on project.                 other funds.
Date achieved 04/10/2002 06/30/2006                                 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Funds leveraged from other State and Federal projects and programs in electricity,

achievement)  land settlement, citriculture and housing.

Indicator 3 : Increased social capital of Municipal Councils and associations
Value
(quantitative Not          Measurable increase (but

or            established  not quantified at                        Not quantitatively measured.

Qualitative)               appraisal)

Date achieved 04/10/2002 06/30/2006                                 06/30/2006

Comments      Beneficiary/Council surveys show strong community confidence that Project

(incl. %      "delivers"; and belief in their associations' and Councils' capacity to solve

achievement)  problems. Councils also leveraged added resources, quadrupling available
              financing for communities.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                     Original Target     Formally    Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator     Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised
                                         approval           Target      Completion or Target

                                       documents)           Values               Years

Indicator 1 : Basic socio-economic infrastructure and services implemented.
              Previous project
Value         reached aboutr 15%
(quantitative of rural poor with                                    1,029 suhbproject
or            840 investments.     1,000 investments                investments
Qualitative)  This project
              incremental.
Date
achieved      04/10/2002           06/30/2006                       06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Subprojects reached about 25% of the rural poor. Additional 1,000 proposals

achievement)  registered in STU portfolio, awaiting new financing.

Indicator 2 : Municipal Councils created and operational
                                   8 additional (3
Value                              FUMAC and 5
(quantitative 68 created under     FUMAC-P to be                    3 additional FUMAC
or            the previous         converted from                   Councils established.
Qualitative)  Project.             well-performing
                                   FUMAC Councils).
Date
achieved      04/10/2002           06/30/2006                       06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      All eligible municipalities now have Council. See text for discussion of FUMAC-

achievement)  P.

Indicator 3 : Training courses offered to beneficiary associations to build capacity.


                                               - 25 -

Value
(quantitative                                                        75 mass training events; and

or            Not established      52 courses                        onsite training during 2,700

Qualitative)                                                         field supervision visits.

Date
achieved      04/10/2002           06/30/2006                        06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Mass training events focused on municipal/social diagnosis/action plan

achievement)  development, benefiting community associations. See text for training situation.

Indicator 4 : Percentage of women in Municipal Councils and community associations.
                                                                     22% Councils with female
Value                                                                presidents; 21% Councils
(quantitative                                                        with other female
or            Not established      Not established                   officeholders; 31% of all
Qualitative)                                                         project-created associations
                                                                     headed by women.
Date
achieved      04/10/2002           06/30/2006                        06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Project demonstrated the social capital and empowerment impact of the Project on

achievement)  women.

Indicator 5 : Cost effectiveness and quality of basic infrastructure and social subprojects
                                                                     (i) 89% good quality, high

Value                                                                utilization, well maintained

(quantitative                                                        (100% for some types); (ii)

or            Not established      Not established                   high sustainability in 100%

Qualitative)                                                         of certain types (see text);
                                                                     (iii) costs 30-40% lower than
                                                                     similar public investments.
Date
achieved      04/02/2002           06/30/2006                        06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Annex 5 Economic and Financial Analysis describes cost effectiveness, and

achievement)  benefit-cost ratios of typical productive subprojects.




                                               - 26 -

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                  - 27 -

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                              Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                 Components                   Estimate     Estimate      Percentage of

                                               (US$ M)     (US$ M)        Appraisal

COMMUNITY SUBPROJECTS                              24.50          25.78         105.22
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                           1.50           0.65          43.33
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                           1.50           2.36         157.33

                        Total Baseline Cost        27.50          28.79
Physical Contingencies                              0.30
Price Contingencies                                 0.20
                        Total Project Costs        28.00
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00           0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00           0.00           0.00
                  Total Financing Required         28.00          28.79



(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal  Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds            Type of                               Percentage of
                                Cofinancing     Estimate     Estimate
                                                (US$ M)      (US$ M)      Appraisal

  Borrower                                            7.20          7.99        110.97
  International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                  20.80          20.80        100.00
Development



(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          - 28 -

- 29 -

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component A: Community Subprojects (Total cost ­ US$25.78 million, 105% of appraisal)

Community subprojects are investment proposals identified, executed, operated and maintained
by the beneficiary communities, acting through their associations.       Results deviated from
appraisal in key respects.

   · Component A absorbed US$25.8 million, about 89.6% of total investments when State
       Government and beneficiary counterpart funds are added (vs. 89.2% at appraisal) and
       US$19.3 million or close to 93% of Loan resources (vs. 86.5% at appraisal). About 1,029
       small-scale investments were financed, 103% of the appraisal target at an average cost of
       about US$25,200 per subproject. (See Table 4.2 below).

   · These benefited 27,406 families, 52% of the appraisal target (52,000) due mainly to (i)
       relatively small size of certain subprojects with typically fewer beneficiaries (e.g.,
       housing improvements, cisterns and household sanitation); (ii) markedly fewer
       infrastructure subprojects of the type with large numbers of beneficiaries (access roads,
       bridges, fords and reservoirs); and (iii) modest size of many communities being reached,
       and in more remote locations.

   · At the time of the MTR, 817 subprojects had benefited around 25,400 families at an
       average cost of US$613/family, significantly higher than the appraisal estimate. By end-
       Project, total beneficiaries had increased modestly to 27,406 at an average cost of about
       US$940/family, double the appraisal estimate.

   · The pattern of financing was significantly different to appraisal: infrastructure 357 vs.
       600 estimated (60%); productive 324 vs. 200 estimated (162%); and social 348 vs. 200
       estimated (174%). Infrastructure subprojects comprised 35% of total investments and
       benefited 32% of total families; productive subprojects were 31% of the total and
       benefited 42.4% of all families; and social subprojects were 34% of the total, benefiting
       25.6% of families. (See Table 4.1).

   · FUMAC (Municipal Community Funds) was the principal financing conduit. At
       Closing, due to significant reallocation of Loan funds and its overall dominance, it had
       absorbed 97% of all Component A Loan financing.

   · FUMAC-P (Pilot Municipal Community Funds) was not promoted by
       PRONESE to the extent anticipated. For most municipalities, PRONESE felt its
       level/degree of decentralized resource management was premature and that
       FUMAC was the better instrument. Only US$340,000 of Loan funds, 13% of
       appraisal were invested through FUMAC-P, with the remainder reallocated.

   · PAC (State Community Scheme) was largely residual due to the shift to FUMAC. By
       Closing, this subcomponent had expended US$190,000, about 1% of Component A Loan
       funds.




                                              - 30 -

Table 4.1: Community Subprojects - Results by Subprogram

 Subprogram          Subproject     Nos. Sub-           Nos. of     % Total  Average SP
                     Type           projects   %        Families    SP Value Cost
                     Infrastructure       351  34.1           8,542 40.2     29.699.00
                     Productive           314  30.5          11,103 26.9     22,177.00
 FUMAC               Social               327  31.8           6,722 30.0     23763.00
                     Sub-total            992 96.4           26,367 97.1     25,361.00
                     Infrastructure         5  0.5             126  0.6      30,435.00
                     Productive            10  1.0             535  1.0      24,908.00
 FUMAC-P             Social                 7  0.7             183  0.4      15,948.00
                     Sub-total             22 2.1              844 2.0       23,313.00
                     Infrastructure         1  0.1              13  0.1      15,591.00
                     Productive             0  0.0               0  0.0      0.00
 PAC                 Social                14  1.4             182  0.9      16,598.00
                     Sub-total             15 1.5              195 1.0       16,531.83
                     Infrastructure       357  34.7           8,681 40.9     29,670.00
                     Productive           324  31.5          11,638 27.8     22,261.00
 TOTAL               Social               348  33.8           7,087 31.3     23,318.00
                     Sub-total          1,029 100.0          27,406 100.0    25,189.00


Table 4.2: Principal Types of Investments by Category
 Subproject Type                   Demanded*     Nos. Financed  %
                                                                Financed
 A. Infrastructure:
 Rural Electrification             569           266            47
 Water Supply System               91            37             41
 Sanitation System                 79            21             27
 Drainage System                   19            16             84
 Other:                            29            17             59
 Subtotal:                         797           357            45%
 B. Productive:
 Tractors/Equipment                252           96             38
 Orange Grove Rehabilitation       166           61             37
 Sheep Breeding Animals            129           47             36
 Multi-use Center                  74            21             28
 Cattle Breeding Animals           63            14             22
 Manioc Mill                       24            9              38
 Mini Sewing Centers               21            17             81
 Fishing Equipment                 20            8              40
 Craft Production                  7             3              43
 Irrigation systems                6             6              100
 Other:                            102           42             31

 Sub-Total:                        864           324            38%

 C. Social:

 Casas Populares (housing)         649           208            32
 Domestic Sanitation               89            36             40
 Cisterns (household)              55            16             29



                                            - 31 -

  Community Laundry                             13                      6                   46
  Community Center                              45                      7                   16
  IT Laboratory                                 20                      7                   35
  Creches                                       5                       3                   60
  Nucleo Inclusão Digital**                     24                      23                  96
  Community Schools                             7                       4                   57
  Other                                         56                      38                  68
  Sub-Total:                                    963                     348                 37
  TOTAL:                                        2,715                   1,029               38%
* Community demands in proposals presented to Councils and sent to PRONESE for registration.
**Demand registered under separate State program but financed by the Project.


Component B: Institutional Development (Total cost ­ US$0.65 million, 43% of appraisal)

    · Component B utilized US$650,800 or 43% of the original Loan allocation instead of the
         US$1.4 million contemplated. Lower utilization resulted from: (i) the State Government
         opting to use its own resources for planned state modernization and reform activities; (ii)
         PRONESE management's lack of interest in training, and greater priority for funding
         subproject investments; and (iii) PRONESE's limited use of consultants.

    · Training: Formal training for institutional development purposes included: (i) large-
         scale, representative training exercises/events organized by PRONESE in 2002 and 2003
         on Project procedures, community mobilization, and organization of the Councils;
         (ii) multi-Council training events for representatives of the 71 Councils, conducted by
         PRONESE in 2003; and (iii) formal community-based training events from 2002-2004,
         about half of which were associated with the Inclusão Digital program. PRONESE
         technicians benefited from seminars and workshops organized by the Bank and other
         entities. Qualitative results were satisfactory but quantity was deficient.

    · PRONESE technicians exploited all available opportunities to provide ad hoc
         training/guidance to associations and Councils during 2,700 field supervision visits.

    · Technical Assistance:                    BCR (2006) found moderately satisfactory levels of access to
         technical assistance (TA) at the preparation, execution and operational phases of
         subprojects, but TA in poor rural areas remains a challenge.

    · PRONESE made comparatively limited use of consultants: for the Physical Performance
         Study (Hydros) and the baseline study (ASPEC), for annual independent audit exercises,
         for some training of PRONESE technicians, and electrical engineering expertise for
         technical reviews of relevant subprojects.

Component C: Project Administration (Total cost ­ US$2.36 million, 157% of appraisal)

This component financed the incremental costs (excluding salaries) for Project administration
and coordination, including 2,700 Project field supervision visits, monitoring and limited
evaluation. PRONESE technicians worked with Councils to encourage integration activities with
other programs/projects; working conditions were improved on PRONESE premises; and
computerized networking was improved within PRONESE. As described earlier in this report,
formal evaluation was not established and about US$700,000 intended for that activity were
reallocated. Table 4.3 provides an overview of project results.




                                                               - 32 -

 Table 4.3: Project Results by Component ­ Appraisal vs. Actual
   Project Components and Activities                      Unit                      Appraisal Est. Actual
   A. Community Subprojects
   Subprojects implemented                                No.                                     1,000                1,029
   - Infrastructure                                                                                 600                  357
   - Productive                                                                                     200                  324
   - Social                                                                                         200                  348


   Beneficiaries
   - Total                                                Families '000                              52                 27.4
   - Total                                                People '000                               229                127.4
   Community Assns benefited                              No.                                       769                  659
   Municipal Councils created                             No.
   - FUMAC                                                                                             3                    3
   - FUMAC-P                                                                                           5                    6
   B. Institutional Development
   Preparation of annual program, TA and
   Training
   - STU
   - Municipal Councils                                   No.                                          4                    4
                                                          No.                                          4                    4
   Community Mobilization
   - Beneficiaries                                        Seminars                                   52                   75
   - Local Leaders                                        No. participants                          160                  350
   No. training courses for:
   - Beneficiary associations                             No.                                        52                   **
   - All Municipal Councils                               No.                                        60                   **
   - STU staff                                            No.                                        16                   **
   Technical Assistance for:
   - Subproject implementation                            Subproj. attended                       1,000                1,029
   - Municipal Councils                                   Contracts                                  71                   70
   C. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
   - Supervision                                          No. visits                              2,100                2,700
   - Municipal Councils                                   No. visits                                604                  580
   Annual Operating Plans (POA)
   - Preparation POA for FUMAC                            No.                                       302                  300
   - Consolidation. & Preparation of Project              No.                                          4                    4
   POA
   Standard designs
   - Preparation                                          No.                                          6                    2
   - Review and Updating                                  No.                                        19                   22
   Monitoring Reports to Bank
   - Monthly disbursement summaries &                     No.                                        48                   46
   MIS Update
   - Annual, Semiannual Reports
   - External audits                                      No.                                        12                     7
                                                          No.                                          4                    5
   Evaluation Studies
   - Physical Performance Reviews                         No.                                          1                    1
   - Mid-term Report                                      No.                                          1                    1
   - Impact evaluation
   (i) Baseline
   (ii) Final                                             No.                                          1                    0
   Borrower Completion Report/Survey                      No.                                          1                    0
                                                          No.                                          --                   1
Source: PRONESE, 2006
** PRONESE delivered large-scale training events in 2002 and 2003 for associations, Councils and the STU itself, on community mobilization
and Project procedures; and opportunistic training of associations and Councils during regular supervision of subprojects and Councils.




                                                                    - 33 -

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Summary of Benefits and Costs: Investments executed under the Northeast CDD projects
including Sergipe were/are decided by communities during implementation. It is thus not
possible to know ex ante how available resources will be allocated among types of subproject
investments or to forecast cost effectiveness, rate of return and associated fiscal impact.
However, it was reasonable to expect that subprojects financed would be generally similar to
those financed under previous and ongoing community-based rural development projects in
Sergipe and across the Northeast region. Based on accumulated program experience, the
following aspects of project investments were assessed: (i) cost-effectiveness and sustainability
of infrastructure and social subprojects; (ii) financial viability of productive subprojects; (iii)
fiscal impact of the RPRP; and (iv) aggregate impact of the RPRP program.

Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects

The bulk of investments under the Northeast program have been of the infrastructure type (about
75%), while social subprojects comprised a modest 3 percent. Most of these subprojects are in
the realm of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments).
Numerous studies show that these basic services provide benefits that justify their universal
provision (World Bank 1998).        The cumulative experience of the Program has shown that the
CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work in a
cost effective manner in the Brazilian Northeast.

Several aspects of project design help to ensure that the RPRP mechanism to deliver communal
infrastructure and social investments represents the least-cost, best alternative:

(a) Demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where they are
most needed. Community participation, under the direction of the project Municipal Councils,
ensures that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for a particular community. Furthermore,
the Project has, in the Municipal Councils, a democratic mechanism to prioritize the use of
resources at the municipal level;

(b) Use of standard technical designs (projetos padrão) for the most common types of
infrastructure and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensures that
community associations employ least-cost models for subproject implementation.               These
standard designs also decrease search and information costs for community associations by
providing established patterns of initiating and completing a subproject. The technical quality of
these investments has been uniformly satisfactory; and

(c) Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates
cost savings compared to works of comparable type and quality, implemented by the public
sector. The Project Operational Manual requires direct contracting through competitive processes
for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject and chooses
the least-cost bid, contributing to the cost-effectiveness of subprojects financed.

Analysis of a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which collectively
represent some 80 percent of the types of subprojects financed region-wide) found that, for
infrastructure and social subprojects, costs under the RPAP/RPRP were 30-40 percent cheaper


                                                - 34 -

than state-financed projects of similar type/quality. State-level evaluation of the RPAP in
Sergipe, Bahia, Ceará, Pernambuco, Piauí and Rio Grande do Norte examined investments in
terms of the materials used, overall finish, and operation. In all states surveyed, the majority of
subprojects were technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed their
satisfaction with subproject quality and regarded more than 90 percent of all investments as
satisfactory overall. These results were confirmed in Sergipe by Hydros (2004).

Operation and Maintenance (O&M): O&M of infrastructure and social subprojects have
also been satisfactory, with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and
maintain the investments or making reasonable arrangements for O&M by other entities where
relevant. Van Zyl et al. (2000), reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects funded by the R-NRDP
in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997/98, finding that 7,240 of them, or 89 percent, were fully operational
in March 2000. There was no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure,
productive and social subprojects: of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and 239 social
community subprojects, 89%, 87% and 88%, respectively, were fully operational at the time of
the study.

Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects
analyzed. (16) Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests financial sustainability
(Table A).     Although beneficiary associations received a one-time investment grant for
productive subprojects from the RPRP, financial sustainability is promoted by cost recovery
through user fees, generally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investment long before the end of its useful economic life.

For illustrative purposes, twelve productive subprojects representing some of the most typical
productive investments carried out under the RPAPs and RPRPs, were selected for financial
analysis. Activity models were constructed for these subprojects. S ubprojects analyzed were:

Communal Tractor: Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain husker, grader and other equipment,
including a garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor
works for both members and non-members, providing land preparation, grain shelling and
transport services. It works approximately 1,700 hours per year serving some 300 ha. User fees
for association members are lower than fees commonly charged by private tractor owners to the
communities and fees charged by the association to non-members. The subproject employs a full-
time motorist hired by the association.

Manioc Mill: Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment
required to process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to
and from the plant. The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The
plant operates for around 100 days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into
approximately 30 tons of farinha and 4.8 tons of starch employing one person to operate the
plant during those days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15 percent of output. Association
members normally pay a smaller fee than non-members.

Small Irrigation 1: Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to
irrigate a total of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the
introduction of a new technical package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two high-
price Brazilian vegetables with good local markets), which replace the existing traditional



                                               - 35 -

cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.

Small Irrigation 2: Sprinkler irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land
with water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the
irrigated land is used for traditional subsistence crops, corn and beans, although a cash crop--
watermelon ­ is planted on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.

Goat Production: Production of goats by a group of some 30 farmers, with an investment
consisting of 120 breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are
constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or self-
consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or self-consumption) of milk.

Animal Feed Production Equipment: Grinding machine and complementary equipment to
produce animal feed from crop residues, together with a small construction to shelter the
machine. Farmers pay a small amount (R$1.5) per hour to use the machine. From these
payments, electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine
works approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are
supplied by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is freely supplied by
association leaders.

Honey Production: Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture
and honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous
apiculture experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8
sites, are maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of
honey which is sold wholesale.

Local Bakery: Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking
facilities to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day.
Employs a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding
communities.

Fish Farm: Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 tilapia fish each. Ponds
are rotated, with 4 ponds being permanently used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond
in a year, with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One
person is employed half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman.
Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.

Cashew Processing Plant: Middle size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200
tons of cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds,
which are then sold wholesale. It operates during ten months of the year, employing around 6
operators. Cashew nuts are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with 1 to
5 ha of cashew trees each.

Jam Production Plant: Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and other
inputs are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to retailers.
Employs a plant manager and three permanent workers.

Small Dairy Plant: Middle size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling
chamber and other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 liters per day. The plant



                                               - 36 -

is supplied by around 400 cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to
some 60 dairy farmers within a radius of 6 km. Employs a plant manager and 4 permanent
workers.

The results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table A.

           Table A: Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
          Type of Activity               Investment    IRR     NPV         Net      Years     to
                                         (R$)          (%)     (at 10%)    Annual   Recover
                                                                           Income   Capital
                                                                           (R$)     Invested
          Communal Tractor               39,752        37.6    35,141      18,075   2.4
          Manioc Mill                    18,450        15.8    5,377       3,970    5.6
          Small Irrigation 1             44,054        >50     327,366     90,781   0.9
          Small Irrigation 2             28,311        28.1    23,573      15,238   3.3
          Goat Production                43,346        16.5    16,925      12,180   5.8
          Feed Production Equipmt.       6,730         15.4    1,831       1,149    5.9
          Honey Production               26,102        16.8    9,112       7,252    5.5
          Local Bakery                   43,352        35.0    56,868      29,575   2.8
          Fish Farm                      46,104        15.6    13,739      13,162   5.6
          Cashew Processing Plant        64,964        >50     288,790     72,195   1.1
          Jam Production Plant           41,123        41.7    69,062      35,008   2.4
          Small Dairy Plant              62,583        19.7    30,223      34,591   4.7

Internal Rates of Return: The investment cost of the subprojects ranged from around R$7,000 to
R$65,000, which was typical for RPAP productive investments. All subprojects showed
satisfactory internal rates of return, some of them very high. Less than six years were needed to
recover the investment in all cases and less than 3.5 in half. The net incremental annual income
or value-added generated by the subprojects (at full development) ranged from R$1,149 for the
feed preparation equipment to R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an
average value of around R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$39,000. The IRRs of
the subprojects compared favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government.
The IRRs also compared favorably with the interest rates that would have to be paid in
concessionary rural credit programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste and Banco do Brasil.
Only two subprojects - the cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation subprojects - would
be able to pay the high interest rates charged by commercial banks for term lending.

Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample:

(a) communal processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and well-
known to farmers, meet community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in the
community, e.g., manioc mill, communal tractor, feed production equipment and goat
production subprojects. Results summarized in Table A illustrate that these types of investments
can be profitable. Financial returns, however, are not high because benefits are passed on to
farmers in the form of moderate user fees or because the activity in question is intrinsically less
profitable, e.g., small-scale goat rearing. However, these subprojects have the advantage of
building on activities familiar to farmers, and thus have few training requirements and simple
management needs. They also have low marketing requirements since the community itself is
the market, and the outputs produced normally have regular marketing channels or are self-
consumed;




                                               - 37 -

(b) those promoting off- or on-farm productive activities which generate full time employment
and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community, e.g., small
irrigation subprojects, honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery subprojects. New
activities producing a final consumption good to be sold in markets outside the community,
e.g., the honey, fish farming and jam production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source
of income and employment to some members of the community, but they tend to be demanding
in terms of marketing and managerial skills. Other popular subprojects in this category are
clothes-making and the production of different artisanal/craft goods such as embroideries. These
subprojects are normally part of industries where the entry cost is low and competition high,
leaving small operating margins. Lack of working capital and the difficulty of establishing a
brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the best-paying markets are two common
constraints. (17)

(c) processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investment, which operate on a scale
bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting also farmers
outside the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and
cashew processing plants exemplify this type of subproject.

To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average was calculated
of the IRRs of the activity models included in the sample. The shares of each of the twelve types
of illustrative models (which were taken to represent other, similar ones) in the total amount
invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program were used as weights. The resulting
average IRR was 30.2 percent. This figure gives an indication of the overall profitability of the
productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP/RPRP.

Fiscal Impact

There are two possible assumptions for estimating the fiscal impact of the RPRP program on the
budget of the State Governments of the Northeast Region: (a) State Government does not carry
out the type of investments financed by RPRP, devoting those resources to other uses; and (b)
without RPRP, State Governments would carry out the investments using a different targeting
and disbursement mechanism. The latter is the most plausible assumption, particularly for the
infrastructure and social investments, in view of their absolute priority, the social and political
pressure from the rural population and municipal authorities in favor of these investments, and
the sustained interest shown by Northeast Governments in the RPRP program. The focus here is
thus on this second hypothesis. It is noted, however, that if the investments were not carried out,
the resources saved by the State Governments would not significantly alter their overall fiscal
position. Under the second assumption, the direct impact of RPRP on government earnings
derives both from savings in government costs and from the generation of incremental
government revenue.

Tangible government savings are associated with the community-driven design of the program.
Evaluations have shown that the cost of investments implemented by communities (either
directly or contracted) were significantly lower than prices paid by public authorities for similar
works. There are also budgetary savings associated with the decreased need for state and local
governments to provide some essential services for which need is reduced by RPAP/RPRP
investments, i.e., government costs for water distribution using carros pipa to communities
without drinking water in critical periods. Thus, the Mid-term Evaluation Review of Sergipe,
Bahia and Ceará concluded: (i) in Sergipe, estimated savings expenses for carros pipa associated
with RPAP investments totaled R$ 500,000 (about R$100,000/ month) during a year of 'normal'



                                              - 38 -

rainfall; (ii) in Ceará, savings were estimated at R$950,000; and (iii) in Bahia, R$1 million. In
years of severe drought, as in 1998, savings were at least twice those estimated for a normal year.
Provision of better quality, more reliable water also has less quantifiable but nonetheless
significant impacts on health, reducing public health costs of Municipal Governments. With few
exceptions (e.g., electricity) subproject operation and maintenance costs are also typically paid by
the beneficiary community, reducing the fiscal burden on municipalities and states.

Direct impacts on revenue generation are likely to be small but indirect impacts could be
significant. The incremental revenue on the sales tax (ICMS) will be small because much of the
incremental production of the subprojects is either self-consumed, not liable to taxation or
circulates in informal markets where tax is rarely paid. Infrastructure subprojects, however, can
have big one-time indirect benefits. Experience shows that there was a large increase in the
purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became available. Thus, the same mid-
term evaluation report quoted above estimated the incremental ICMS revenue from the most
common appliances (TV sets, refrigerators, stereos, irons, antennas, etc.) at approximately R$2.0
million in Sergipe, R$2.2 million in Ceará and R$1.0 million in Bahia. Incremental ICMS
revenue from electrical equipment is also associated with the purchase of items such as
agricultural machinery and irrigation pumps.

Aggregate Impact of the RPRP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area

The July 2000 impact evaluation study of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States, provided an
estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, income and cultivated area of the
infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program. The study, based on a
sample from the most representative types of subprojects in each of the States, with an error of
less than 20 percent, allows the calculation of summary figures for incremental jobs created,
incremental income generated and incremental number of hectares cultivated per unit invested in
productive subprojects. Using these unit-level summary figures from the RPAP and multiplying
them by the investment in productive subprojects expected/known under the RPRP, a gross
approximation of the aggregate benefits of the entire RPRP program was estimated, with the
following results (rounded figures):

 Total investment in community productive subprojects:           US$362.0 million
 Incremental employment created:                                 40,000 jobs
 Incremental net annual income/savings generated:                US$80.0 million
 Incremental cropped area:                                       40,000 hectares

These estimates are subject to a number of caveats, among which is the fact that the level of
significance of the sample is not big and that the representative subproject mix under the RPAP
has not been precisely replicated under the RPRP. Furthermore, the estimates reflect not only the
direct impact of the investments on employment, income and cultivated land but also some
indirect impacts, for example, the expansion of cultivated area, employment and income derived
from the introduction of a tractor or a casa de farinha in a certain community. The above figures
should be taken therefore as an indication of the order of magnitude of the benefits involved.

Sensitivity Analysis/ Switching Values of Critical Items:

A sensitivity analysis was carried out on illustrative activity models to examine financial
robustness. Three scenarios are considered (i) production is assumed to be 20 percent below the
base case, because of, say, marketing problems. A 20 percent decrease in output causes a 20



                                                - 39 -

percent decrease in revenue, but this is, to some extent, matched by a reduction in the use of
inputs and hence in variable costs; (ii) the price decreases 20 percent and revenue also decreases
by the same proportion without any compensating element; and (iii) an increase of 20 percent in
the price of variable costs is assumed. Results are shown in Table C.

     Table C - Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
       Type of Subproject                    Base Case        Scenario 1    Scenario 2   Scenario 3
                                                              - 20% output  - 20% price  + 20% costs
       Manioc Mill
                 IRR (%)                     15.8             11.5          10.1         14.4
                 NPV (R$)                    5,377            1,385         132          4,124
       Communal Tractor
                 IRR (%)                     37.6             17.2          < 0          16.8
                 NPV (R$)                    35,141           10,836        -23,602      10,221
       Small Irrigation 1
                 IRR (%)                     >50              >50           39.4         >50
                 NPV (R$)                    327,366          163,375       77,015       154,646
       Small Irrigation 2
                 IRR (%)                     28.1             7.4           4.6          13.0
                 NPV (R$)                    23,573           -2,965        -6,057       3,546
       Goat Production
                 IRR (%)                     16.5             12.8          11.5         15.2
                 NPV (R$)                    16,925           7,097         3,847        13,395
       Feed Production Equipment
                 IRR (%)                     15.4             11.2          10.2         14.4
                 NPV (R$)                    1,831            397           62           1,496
       Honey Production
                 IRR (%)                     16.8             10.0          7.2          11.6
                 NPV (R$)                    9.112            42            -3,635       2,162
       Local Bakery
                 IRR (%)                     35.0             20.1          < 0          15.8
                 NPV (R$)                    56,868           22,451        -21,559      12,859
       Fish Farm
                 IRR (%)                     15.6             9.3           < 0          < 0
                 NPV (R$)                    13,739           -1,732        -39,886      -26,024
       Cashew Processing Plant
                 IRR (%)                     >50              > 50          48.3         >50
                 NPV (R$)                    288,790          210,642       132,561      201,015
       Jam Production Plant
                 IRR (%)                     41.7             24.0          < 0          12.7
                 NPV (R$)                    69,062           29,690        -33,720      5,652
       Small Dairy Plant
                 IRR (%)                     19.7             2.0           n.d. (*)     n.d. (*)
                 NPV (R$)                    30,223           -23,493       -138,697     -84,981
    (*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.


Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general,
subprojects which are highly dependent on purchased inputs, e.g., communal tractor, bakery, fish
farm, jam production plant and dairy plant, are more sensitive to deteriorating market conditions
than those little dependent on purchased inputs, e.g., manioc mill, goat production, feed
preparation equipment and honey production subprojects. In all cases, the worst scenario is a
decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario depends on the type of subproject; for
those highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the increase in variable production costs
(scenario 3), while those little dependent on purchased inputs, it is declining output (scenario 1).


                                                        - 40 -

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                   Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Tulio Barbosa          Consultant               LCSAR              Agricultural Economist
Edward William
Bresnyan               Agric. Economist         LCSAR              Agricultural Economist

Raimundo N. Caminha    Consultant               LCSAR              Agricultural Specialist
Luis O. Coirolo        Consultant               SASAR              Team Leader/Ag. Econ.
Enzo De Laurentiis     Manager                  LCSPT              Procurement Specialist
Klaus W. Deininger     Lead Economist           DECRG              Peer Reviewer/Econ.
Claudio Mittelstaedt   Consultant               LCSFM              Financial Man. Specialist
Marta Elena Molares-
Halberg                Lead Counsel             LEGLA              Lawyer

Anna F. Roumani        Consultant               LCSAR              Rural Devt. Specialist
Morag N. Van Praag     Senior Finance Officer   LOAG1              Disbursement Officer
Joachim von Amsberg    Country Director         EACPF              Economist

Supervision/ICR
Tulio Barbosa          Consultant               LCSAR              Agricultural Economist
Joao Barbosa-De Lucena Consultant               LCSAR              Agricultural Specialist
Edward William
Bresnyan               Agric. Economist         LCSAR              Agricultural Economist

Jose Maria Caballero   Lead Agriculture
                       Economist                LCSAR              Agricultural Economist

Raimundo N. Caminha    Consultant               LCSAR              Agricultuural Specialist
Luis O. Coirolo        Consultant               SASAR              Team Leader/Economist
Alberto Coelho Gomes
Costa                  Consultant               LCSAR              Anthropologist

Enzo De Laurentiis     Manager                  LCSPT              procurement Specialist
Claudio Mittelstaedt   Consultant               LCSFM              Financial Man. Specialist
Claudia B. Romano      Consultant               LCSAR              Research Economist
Anna F. Roumani        Consultant               LCSAR              Rural Devt. Specialist
Maria de Fatima de
Sousa Amazonas         Operations Officer       LCSAR              Sociologist


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO               IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/24/2002               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                0.21
2   09/09/2002               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                1.21
3   09/17/2002               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                1.21
4   12/17/2002               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                2.21
5   01/16/2003               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                2.21
6   05/22/2003               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                2.61



                                             - 41 -

7   12/12/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             5.79
8   04/19/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             8.79
9   12/10/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            17.67
10 04/29/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            19.35
11 05/24/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            20.80
12 01/23/2007               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            20.80


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY01                                          5                20.06
                    FY02                                          5                20.92
                    FY03                                                            0.00
                    FY04                                                            0.00
                    FY05                                                            0.00
                    FY06                                                            0.00
                    FY07                                                            0.00
                                        Total:                  10                 40.98
Supervision/ICR
                    FY01                                                            0.00
                    FY02                                                            0.00
                    FY03                                          4                18.50
                    FY04                                          3                44.55
                    FY05                                          8                48.27
                    FY06                                          3                38.97
                    FY07                                          2                 4.09
                                        Total:                  20                154.38




                                           - 42 -

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


        Bank                    Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory       Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing
                                           Agency/Agencies:  Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory       Performance:      Satisfactory




                                        - 43 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

The Borrower conducted a beneficiary survey in 2006 to support its BCR. Interesting findings in
key areas are summarized below (see Annex 10 for full study/IRIS4).

   · Beneficiary participation: Identifying demand, and the preparation and execution of
       subprojects are seen as proper activities for beneficiaries but depend on the strong
       involvement of association leadership, especially the president and treasurer whose
       involvement may at times inhibit wider participation by beneficiaries. The tendency is
       for more direct involvement of beneficiaries in infrastructure and social subprojects, and
       less in productive investments (possibly due to fewer beneficiaries).

   · Conditions of participation: Beneficiaries believe that all associations have open access
       to Project financing but in order to participate and secure financing, they need to
       overcome certain conditions, whether documentation required by PRONESE, or at times,
       the support of local political figures. Beneficiaries noted the importance of the person
       leading the effort, especially the head of the association, the importance of quality
       subproject preparation and that it attend community need, and the strength of a
       community's collective action. Some still felt mayor's and/or government's support was
       important.

   · Associations and Collective Action:          A majority of beneficiaries identified their
       association as an organization present in the community to permit their participation and
       representation. They describe a continuing arc of dependence which includes, as needed,
       state and local government, NGOs, the local public school, political figures and their
       own community. Beneficiaries perceive that their involvement in local organizations
       permits more subprojects under the Project, understanding the investment as the outcome
       of collective action and as belonging to the community and/or the association.

   · Councils: Field research showed that not all beneficiaries fully understand the role and
       functions of the Municipal Councils and that PRONESE and the Councils themselves,
       need to do a better job of explaining the role and responsibilities of the Councils to
       communities. Those familiar with them believe that while still evolving, Councils have
       generated important results, e.g., an arena for discussion and negotiation of popular
       interests, permitting new knowledge, exchange of ideas and experiences.

   · The Councils have provoked changes in the communities and municipalities, e.g.,
       broadening knowledge concerning the execution of subprojects; access to other
       government programs; organization of associations and greater popular participation in
       defining subprojects.

   · Beneficiaries and Council members believe they have the conditions/knowledge to
       manage their Councils but criticized the bureaucracy, lack of autonomy, adequate
       infrastructure and funds to carry out their responsibilities. Suggested options for
       overcoming these difficulties include access to information, knowledge-building,
       permanent training and assistance to maintain the autonomy of the Councils, transfer of
       resources for operational expenses of the Councils and greater involvement of the state in
       facilitation.

   · Direct execution: 87% saw their direct participation in executing their subproject as
       important, associating their degree of involvement with its success. They felt that "the
       more we get involved, the more we know if the subproject is getting done" and "we
       internalize what is happening" and "we supervise the money and monitor the purchase of
       materials". Community members responsible for the subproject said they respected the



                                              - 44 -

  project technician providing guidance but that direct participation of beneficiaries in
  subproject execution was important. The period of subproject execution was considered
  adequate. They agreed with the release of financial resources in installments and with
  the use of standardized procedures, with local adaptation, for sourcing technical
  assistance.

· Targeting: The Municipal Councils are committed to identifying and steering resources
  to the poorest communities but this priority-setting is not always respected by PRONESE
  when it approves/finances subprojects. Data registered in the MIS tend to confirm the
  tendency observed by the research that 44% of total community demand approved by the
  Councils and registered in PRONESE (1,211 subproject proposals) belonged to the 35
  poorest municipalities (lowest HDI).          Of these, 46% (474) were financed. By
  comparison, 55% of registered demand pertained to the remaining 35 municipalities of
 which 54% were financed. Possible explanations include: feasibility issues; delayed
 delivery and analysis of proposals from Councils in the poorest municipalities; and,
 certainly, the objectives of sector policy (e.g., recuperation of citrus groves) may have
 led PRONESE to sacrifice the intended preferential targeting for the poorest
 municipalities and communities.

· PRONESE and the Project: Beneficiaries have knowledge of PRONESE including its
  attributes of "working for the benefit of the communities, bringing investments to
  improve quality of life, and financing small-scale subprojects".        Interviewees were
  positive about PRONESE's field presence describing repeated visits to subprojects,
  clarity on how the money should be spent, taking photos and verifying equipment, and
  providing the right guidance. A majority said they knew about the Project and that it
  signified: "better quality of life, less poverty, financing of small-scale subprojects and
  community organization".

· Linkage to the municipality: Regarding the role of the municipal Mayors, beneficiaries
  confirmed that the municipal government and the mayors themselves are involved in all
  phases of subprojects through their presence in the Municipal Council, since they are a
  member of the Council and contribute via technical assistance and logistical support.
  According to Council members, involvement of the municipal chamber of deputies
  (vereadores) is still modest.

· Project impact and benefits: Beneficiaries believe that the financing of subprojects
  generates direct impacts for them, e.g., opportunities for business activities, better access
  and communications conditions from road paving, and increased area of land cultivated
  and production from the acquisition of agricultural equipment. Beneficiaries associate the
  Project with financed subprojects existing in their communities. They also recognize that
  due to limits on subproject size, they may benefit only part of a given community, and
  not reach all eligible families. Clearly, some subprojects had negative outcomes,
  e.g., lack of follow-up on rations and TA for investments sheep herding/breeding, lack of
 working capital and subprojects benefiting only part of a community. Municipal
 authorities affirmed that the Project impacted on tax collection/fiscal status and better use
 of resources.

· Other financing/credit: Some 44% of responding beneficiaries said they were able, after
  installation of their subproject, to access other financing including various credit lines of
 the National program to Strengthen Family Agriculture (PRONAF), rural credit from
 Bank of Brazil and Bank of Northeast Brazil, and added subprojects from the Bank-
 supported Project. Another 44% said they had not accessed other financing either
 because they did not know how to proceed, their association had disbanded, they lacked



                                          - 45 -

  land and/or, electricity and water were all they needed at the time.

· Other programs: Beneficiaries demonstrate that they are aware that other programs and
  projects exist and which target poor rural communities. A majority identified: Fome
 Zero, Bolsa Familia, Bolsa Renda, PRONAF, Crédito Amigo (micro-credit through
 BNE), SEBRAE's Capacitação Rural, Educação Solidaria, Alfabetização Solidaria and
 the Programa de Erradicação do Trabalho Infantil (PETI), among others. This bodes
 well for future integrated leveraging of complementary funds through the Councils.

· Continuing socio-economic deficits: Demonstrating that significant deficits remain,
  beneficiaries variously see their main problems as: water supply, employment and
  income, housing, education, health, energy, basic sanitation, roads, transportation,
  professional training and land. Given the breadth of these problems, limited resources,
  and the favoring of certain categories of subprojects financed, they see project
  investments as insufficient to resolve the level of deprivation still existing in rural
  communities. Even so, they recognize that part of the problem is solved, especially for
  those benefited directly by the Project.

· Ingredients of success: The study demonstrated that subprojects considered successful
  count on the effort of associations in keeping them operational and attending to their
  objectives. However, replication of successful cases requires greater knowledge and
  involvement of beneficiaries from the time of initiation through development.
  Communities acknowledged the importance of training and technical assistance to
  sustain them, along with access to working capital (productive subprojects) and to
  essential resources for O&M (infrastructure and social subprojects).

· Human capital: Data/responses indicate that beneficiaries perceive that improvements in
  quality of life of rural communities depend on financial resources for infrastructure,
  employment and income generation, but that investments to increase communities'
  human, social and natural capital are also essential.




                                        - 46 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                                  - 47 -

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following is an unofficial translation of the Borrower's Executive Summary of its
Completion Report.

                                       Executive Summary
               Final Evaluation by the Executor and Project Beneficiaries
                                 Presented to the World Bank

                                         November 2006
Introduction:

The Rural Poverty Reduction Project of the State of Sergipe (PCPR), subject of the Loan
Agreement 4649-BR, executed in the period from April 4, 2002 to June 30, 2006, was part of a
group of similar projects financed by the World Bank for Governments of the States of the
Northeast Region, and whose design of decentralized, participatory execution was initiated in
1993, utilizing the approach known in the Bank as Community Driven Development
(CDD). From a historical point of view, RPRP II represented the culmination of a process of
learning with the incorporation of lessons learned under previous phases of the program. These
phases can be summarized as follows: (18)


    · In the period 1985-93, under the umbrella of the Northeast Rural Development Program
        (PAPP) a pilot component was introduced known as the Program of Support for Small
        Rural Communities (APCR), which contemplated the participation of communities both
        in the definition of priority investments and in their execution;

    · Due to the success of APCR - the only successful component of the PAPP ­ it was
        decided in 1993 to completely reformulate the PAPP, eliminating all traditional
        components and substituting them with APCR, the phase known as the Reformulated
        Northeast Rural Development Program (Reformulated PAPP) and executed, in
        Sergipe, from 1993 to 1995.

    · Two mechanisms were introduced for decision-making and approval of community
        demands: (a) Community Support Program (PAC); and (b) Municipal Community
        Support Fund (FUMAC), which in the State of Sergipe was denominated as Municipal
        Development Fund or CONDEM. Under PAC, communities inter-relate directly with
        the Project Technical Unit (which later became the Sustainable Development Company
        of the State of Sergipe (PRONESE)) to present demands, while in municipalities selected
        to execute the experimental mechanism (pilot) of the CONDEM, communities inter-
        relate with this Municipal Council, to which they present their demands. The Council,
        with majority participation of community beneficiaries, decided, approved and sent
        approved proposals, ranked by priority, to PRONESE for final approval;

    · Due to the superior quality of benefits of the FUMAC/CONDEM mechanism compared
        to PAC, growth in the number of municipalities utilizing the council mechanism was
        already evident at that time. The coverage of municipalities with FUMAC/CONDEM
        was therefore increased, while use of the PAC mechanism, albeit maintained,
        was limited. This phase lasted from January 1996-June 2001.

    · The latest phase just concluded was initiated in 2002 and continued the process of
        refining Project targeting actions, deepening decentralization, introducing a new delivery



                                               - 48 -

        mechanism - FUMAC-P/CONDEM-P - under which councils come to manage directly,
        financial resources for community subprojects. While this latter mechanism did not
        become a consistent or decisive experiment, use of FUMAC/CONDEM is now virtually
        universal. This Executive Summary details the vision of PRONESE and beneficiaries
        concerning the performance of RPRP II, on the understanding that it represents the fruit
        of a long learning process.

RPRP II was officially initiated on April 10, 2002 with declaration of Effectiveness of the
US$20.8 million World Bank Loan. Loan resources were fully disbursed. With State counterpart
funds and beneficiary contribution, RPRP II involved investments totaling around US$28.0
million. As under previous phases, PRONESE, an entity linked to the State Secretariat of
Planning, Science and Technology functioned as the Project Technical Unit.

Description of RPRP II

RPRP II, in its first phase, had the central objective of contributing to and supporting the
Government of Sergipe in reducing poverty through:

    · Improving living conditions of the poorest population through community investments
        (subprojects) to establish basic infrastructure and generate employment and income,
        which would satisfy their most urgent, priority needs;

    · Decentralize financial resource allocation and decision-making to the local level, through
        support to the Municipal Development Councils (CONDEM) and community beneficiary
        associations in the planning and priority-setting of subprojects, and their execution,
        operation and maintenance;

    · Promote the creation and consolidation of community organizations, associations and
        CONDEMs so that they could serve as instruments for planning, social control and
        expressing of needs of poor communities to allow them to overcome barriers to their
        economic development.

    · Increase social capital of rural communities, translated as their capacity to organize
        collectively to satisfy their own needs.

Of the 75 state municipalities, the Project covered an area involving 71, excluding municipalities
comprising the Metropolitan Region of Aracajú.

Component A: Community Subprojects

Financing for community subprojects represented the principal Project component, concentrating
about 90% of total investments. Implementation was carried out through the three mechanisms
described above which represented increasing levels of decentralization and direct management
by local society, of the investments:

    · Community Support Program ­ PAC: initially allocated resources amounting to US$1.2
        million, or 4.3% of component cost. Subprojects were presented by community
        associations directly to PRONESE who analyzed, approved and financed their
        implementation, bearing in mind the legitimacy of the demand from the Municipal
        Community Committee. From the start of RPRP II, PRONESE opted to reduce the
        coverage of PAC while simultaneously increasing, due to its benefits, the coverage of
        FUMAC/CONDEM, resulting in the end in only US$250,000 total applied through PAC;



                                                - 49 -

  · Municipal Community Support Fund ­ FUMAC: constituted the principal financing
     line for community subprojects with an initial allocation of US$19.6 million or 70% of
     component total cost. By Closing, due to the expanded coverage of Councils, some 87%
     or US$25.08 million of total Project cost was dedicated to financing community
     subprojects through this mechanism;

  · Pilot Municipal Community Fund ­ FUMAC-P:                the most decentralized form of
     financing for community subprojects, it was initially allocated US$3.7 million or 13% of
     total component cost. In practice, PRONESE was not adequately motivated to
     experiment consistently and vigorously with the FUMAC-P mechanism, considering
     decentralization of financial management to the Councils as premature and more prudent
     to continue to exploit the good results being obtained with FUMAC. PRONESE believes
     that the FUMAC-P mechanism will be tried again under the next phase with a limited
     number of better-organized Councils with greater capacity. The major part of resources
     originally allocated to FUMAC-P were transferred to implement RPRP II via FUMAC.
     Thus, only US$450,000 of total project cost were applied to FUMAC-P.

Component B : Institutional Development

  · This component was designed to finance the provision of technical assistance and
     training to improve overall capacity for implementing the Project, and to: (a) provide
     funds for technical assistance and support to the State of Sergipe in matters related to
     state modernization and reform, to contribute to obtaining positive impact in reducing
     poverty. This assistance would be an integral part of a wider dialogue between the State
     and the World Bank; and (b) support expansion of the use of information technology to
     increase transparency and connect communities and Municipal Councils (CONDEM) to
     markets. This component was initially allocated US$1.5 million (or 5.4% of the total
     Project cost) but only US$650,800 of Loan funds was actually invested. The State
     decided to use its own resources to finance state reform and modernization activities and
     instead, advance the use of information technology per se. RPRP II mainly financed
     technical assistance and training of Municipal Councils, community associations and
     PRONESE itself.

Component C: Project Administration

  · This component financed incremental costs (excluding salaries) for the administration
     and coordination of RPRP II, including field supervision, monitoring and impact
     evaluation. The US$600,000 originally allocated were fully-disbursed but very little was
     invested in impact evaluation.

Implementation Strategy for RPRP II

  · Execution of RPRP II was decentralized, participatory and sustainable, through
     partnership contracts signed between PRONESE and community associations, with the
     approval of the CONDEM, to implement community subprojects. Associations were not
     mere subproject executors but with their participation in the CONDEM, Action Plans
     were prepared and approved in which priorities were defined and targets established for
     each municipality.

  · From the viewpoint of decisions, the Project was implemented and supported in the
     CONDEMs, which had the role of verifying the eligibility of beneficiaries and providing



                                           - 50 -

       opinions concerning all initial proposals for financing, constituting in this way, the first
       stop for consultation, decision-making and monitoring/supervision of subprojects. The
       Councils also linked the RPRP II with other local policies, and ensured that Project
       beneficiaries were included in these policies.

   · The Project was also sustained by the participation and autonomy of its principal
       beneficiaries: the poorest, neediest population and their community associations.
       Subproject success depended on them, permitting the strengthening of local groups and
       development of social capital.

   · In the State's Plan, PRONESE was responsible for general rules and establishing the
       Project's annual physical and financial targets, preparing the Annual Operating Plan ­
       POA, as well as ensuring harmony/consistency between this plan and other action plans
       of the State Government, and for evaluating Project execution as a whole. In addition,
       PRONESE was also responsible for final judgment concerning technical and economic
       feasibility of subprojects, ensuring the provision of technical assistance, monitoring and
       supervising subprojects, as well as identifying impacts observed during implementation.

   · Among the general rules of PRONESE, as directed by the State Government, one should
       note guidance regarding priority action in 20 municipalities with lowest HDI-M in the
       state. For purposes of the RPRP II, those with HDI-M under 0.60 (Census 2000), actually
       cover 24 municipalities.

   · The World Bank, Loan financier to the State of Sergipe, was an important partner in the
       management and implementation of RPRP II, taking into account its global mission to
       guide and support long-term initiatives which promote poverty reduction, sustainable
       development, and social inclusion, within a wide-reaching development paradigm.
       Periodically, compliance with the Loan Agreement was evaluated in terms of physical,
       financial and institutional performance, through supervision missions by Bank teams,
       which sought to verify evidence of social, economic and environmental impact,
       proposing adjustments if needed.

Principal Results of RPRP II

   · In relation to what was forecast, physical performance can be considered very good,
       having achieved and even slightly exceeded the target for subprojects financed ­ 1,029
       vs. 1,000 estimated.

   · Some 27,406 families benefited, of which 42.5% through productive subprojects and
       18.4% with rural electrification subprojects. Of total families benefited, 849 were
       benefited by more than one investment, or 3.1% of the total.

   · The target was to benefit 52.000 families, but only 52.7% of the number forecast, was
       achieved. The reduced number is due basically to the demand and financing profile vis-
       a-vis the profile foreseen at appraisal. The observed profile saw productive and social
       subprojects predominate, contrary to initial expectations of greater incidence of
       infrastructure subprojects which typically involve a larger average number of
       beneficiaries. Thus, of the 600 infrastructure subprojects estimated only 357 were
       financed, while productive exceeded by 62% their original target (324 vs. 200) and social
       investments exceeded estimates by 74% (348 vs. 200). Also responsible for this lower
       beneficiary count is the predominance of housing improvement subprojects whose unit
       costs limit the number of beneficiaries to between 10-12 per subproject.

   · A result worth registering is that, of the 27,406 families benefited with 1,029 financed
       subprojects, 10.957 families (40%) were female-headed. The participation of female


                                             - 51 -

        heads of household was greater in social subprojects (58.1%). Women's participation
        corresponded to more than 80% of families benefited by subprojects for the acquisition
        of machines for lace-making, graphic industries, small-scale candle-making, community
        creches and acquisition of hospital clinic equipment. The lower participation of women
        was in subprojects for acquisition of fishing equipment, ice-making and fish-farming
        subprojects. Notably, 28% of associations with subprojects financed were female-
        headed.

    · The 1,029 subprojects emerged from 70 of the 71 Councils in the Project area, involving
        641 communities and 659 community associations (an average of 1.56 subprojects per
        association). This relatively elevated average stems from the problem encountered in
        2003, under the Utilidade Publica requirement for association eligibility to participate in
        the Project. Only a relatively small number of associations privileged with this status
        could participate, concentrating the initial subprojects financed in a few associations,
        acting on behalf of other associations.

    · In the process of implementing subprojects, approximately 49% were developed by
        associations with use of consultants, 32% used standardized subproject designs and 18%
        used projetos tipo.

Results and Impact

The scale of the RPRP II means that the Project effectively contributed to:

    · increasing existing levels of social and economic infrastructure, creating opportunities
        for community and individual development; new opportunities for business, agricultural
        equipment in operation, increased area under cultivation and production, and greater
        social and community togetherness, among its benefits;

    · increasing social capital of communities in the interior, a organization in community
        associations and their strengthening;

    · stimulating the formation of local leaders and citizenship through the creation and
        strengthening of Municipal Councils which became a stage for discussing plans and
        actions established as priorities for financing. The strength and prestige of the
        CONDEMs however is not uniform in all municipalities, but various Councils are
        notable for their considerable influence on government agencies, civil society and
        financial institutions; and

    · community subprojects generating adequate conditions for new opportunities, resulting
        in communities enjoying a better quality of life.

Challenges Faced by the RPRP II and PRONESE and Lessons Learned

During implementation of RPRP II, PRONESE encountered challenges which, if not
compromising success in achieving Project objectives, certainly contributed to delaying the
achievement of targets and at times, put at risk the quality of results achieved. Prominent among
the relevant issues and lessons, are the following:

    · The requirement, prevailing until 2003, for utilidade publica status for associations to be
        eligible for subproject financing; the problem created a delay exceeding one year before
        project implementation could achieve an acceptable pace;

    · The RPRP II had five changes of administration of PRONESE which disrupted its basic
        activities as well as technical and administrative routines. Problems would have been



                                               - 52 -

  greater but for the stability of the main technical/administrative group;

· Resistance by PRONESE administration to providing information to the Councils about
  indicative budget allocations. If provided, it would have facilitated and improved the
  Councils' work of prioritizing subprojects and allocating funds;

· Lack of planned linkages between supervision of financed subprojects, entailing long
  periods between the release of contracted installments;

· Excessive influence of some sector policies in the definition of the profile of subprojects
  financed, e.g., the prevalence of subprojects for housing improvement and rural
  electrification to the detriment of productive subprojects, which changed in the final
  phase of implementation (2005/2006) when the sector policy favored expansion of
 subprojects tied to recuperation of orange plantations;

· Deficiencies in the prior definition and subsequent implementation of operation and
 maintenance schemes for some types of subprojects;

· Lack of a culture of and the decision to execute routinely, evaluation studies of results
  and impact of the RPRP II which were limited to the Physical Performance Study, Mid-
  term Review Report and this final Borrower Comletion Report;

· Linkage of PRONESE with the CONDEMs, municipal mayors, community associations,
  enabled a participatory structure to be built for the implementation of subprojects,
  defining responsibilities for the diverse activities developed by partners. This strategy
  was efficient in accomplishing established targets for the objectives to be achieved.
  However, the requirements for administration and sustainability of subprojects whether
  environmental, socio-economic or technical, still need to be brought to full adequacy
  through technical assistance and the creation of technical teams to support the RPRP in
  the CONDEMs and associations;

· Training in the past was important in the technical evolution and development of
 PRONESE personnel, and for its structural wellbeing. Thus, training for human capital
 development within PRONESE in the areas of planning, preparation, analysis and
 supervision of subprojects ought to receive greater investment, including for rotating
 members of the Municipal Councils; and

· Refinement of targeting was prejudiced by under-investment in mobilization and
  organization for poorer municipalities and communities.

· Evidence of success, as well as challenges confronted, was fundamental in the definition
  of the design for the next phase of the Project, whose negotiation with the Bank is
  expected soon.




                                          - 53 -

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

See attached letter in IRIS4.




                                    - 54 -

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report 22014-BR, January 7, 2002


Borrower Completion Report, PRONESE/SEPLANTEC, November 2006


Physical Performance Study, Hydros, 2004


Supervision Aide Memoires and PSR/ISRs, 2002-2006


Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire, 2004


Project Audit Reports, 2003-2006


Project Annual Progress Reports


Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeas t Brazil, van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000


Can Community-driven Infrastructure Programs Contribute to Social Capital - Findings from the
Rural Northeast of Brazil, C osta and Rizvi, May 2003


Projetos Renascer (PE), Produzir (BA) e Sao Jose (CE) - Perfil Socioeconomico da Populacao
Beneficiaria - Fase II, Relator io de Consultoria Tecnica, FECAMP, 2004


Projeto Produzir - Funcionamento e Resultados Imediatos: Estado da Bahia - Relatorio de
Consultoria Tecnica, FECAMP, 2005 (similar studies in CE and PE)




                                               - 55 -

Annex 13: List of Footnotes


1. United Nations Human Development Index, a composite measuring economic and social
development.


2.   The Institute for Applied Economic Research (IPEA) defines indigence for Brazil as one
living on <1/4 of the minimum salary/month or less than US$1.37/capita/day.

3.   The January 2002 PAD used a project Design Summary (not the Results Framework and
Monitoring Table) showing PDO and Outputs, which reflected only part of the PAD's list of key
performance indicators. Indicators monitored in ISRs were a combination of both.

4. Project beneficiaries constituted the poorest rural communities in the 71 municipalities of the
Project area, in which 75% of all municipalities had HDI at or below 0.65.

5. (a) State Community Schemes (PAC): Rural communities submit investment proposals to the
State Technical Unit (STU) for screening/approval. STU releases funds directly to them for
approved subprojects; (b) Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC): Municipal Councils, with at
least 80% of voting members comprising beneficiaries and civil society, debate and approve
investment priorities based on an annual indicative budget. The STU reviews proposals and
releases funds directly to associations with approved proposals; and (c) Pilot Municipal
Community Schemes (FUMAC-P): More decentralized version of FUMAC. STU sets an annual
budget envelope based on a distribution formula. Councils submit an annual operating plan
(POA) to the STU which transfers funds to the Council to manage distribution to associations
with approved subprojects.

6.   A total US$4,388,700 ­ comprising US$2,458,700 from Category 1(b) (FUMAC Pilot
Grants), US$510,000 from Category 1(c) (PAC Grants), US$628,000 from Category 2
(Consultants' Services and Training), US$100,000 from Category 3(b) (Project Supervision and
Monitoring Costs) and US$692,000 from Category 5 (Unallocated) ­ was reallocated to Category
1(a) FUMAC Grants (US$4,188,700) and Category 3(a) Incremental Operational Costs
(US$200,000).

7.    The subsequent CAS Progress Report (21116-BR) confirmed that the Bank's Northeast
strategy was evolving on track, with state governments focusing on targeted poverty reduction
and assisting government(s) in creating replicable policy successes, including through
community-based rural development projects.

8.    The Project Operational Manual outlined arrangements for "graduating" communities to
facilitate their access to mainstream credit.  The MIS was intended to track their progress and
characteristics.

9. The strategy was designed to allay internal Bank concerns about the use of grants for
productive activities. The grant was seen by the Project team as seed capital for small-scale, poor
producers to launch productive activities while simultaneously preparing them to qualify for
mainstream credit, compensating for bank's traditional resistance to financing such groups.
Discussions were held with several interested banks at appraisal but there was no follow-up.




                                              - 56 -

10.    Differentiated credit lines of the National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture
(PRONAF).

11.    The social capital effects of successfully navigating the subproject cycle ­ repeatedly
validated by Costa, FECAMP and others ­ tend to suggest that seeking new financing would be a
logical step, even though the Project did not follow through on the plan to directly promote this.

12.     The ICR for Rural Poverty Reduction Project ­ Bahia, Report 32773, details the
methodology and findings of three studies by the Fundação Economia de Campinas, Federal
University of Campinas, São Paulo (FECAMP), on this issue.

13. The implication for CDD projects in Sergipe (and other Northeast states moving in the same
direction) is a pragmatic transitioning to partially-guided or tied demand as the state exerts its
authority to demand more rapid and deeper poverty reduction impact, consistent with sector
policies and strategy.

14.    Recent case studies indicate that, while cost effectiveness of both state and federal
governments has improved for the delivery of these types of investments to the rural poor,
community execution remains at least 30% cheaper for the most common types.

15.     When discussing comparative poverty levels, it should be remembered that all 71
municipalities fell within the range of 1-2 minimum salaries/month and 75% had HDI-M at or
below 0.65.

16.     A recent analysis by the STU/Bahia (2004), based on methodology developed by
DESENBAHIA, confirmed these high cost-benefit ratios for the main types of productive and
infrastructure subprojects, which vary from 1.44 to 2.07, according to the scenarios utilized.
These same estimates would be even higher (from 1.73 to 2.50) if additional benefits, such as
savings from reducing or eliminating the use of carros-pipa (water trucks) and reduction of days
not worked due to disease, both benefits derived from better quality water supply, are added.

17. (From Annex 5). Local bakeries, popular subprojects in some states (but less frequent now),
have few training and marketing requirements, and are similar to manioc mills or communal
tractors in catering to local need and therefore having a local market, although in this case it is
that of a final good rather than of a productive service, and they only offer employment and
income to a reduced number of community members. The irrigation subprojects illustrate well
that, whenever possible, irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and an improved
technical package is a profitable and cost-effective way to increase employment and income in
the Brazilian Northeast, which can be successfully operated by farmers at a very small scale. The
contrast between the very high returns to investment for the first subproject, where new cash
crops and technology were introduced along with irrigation, and the moderately high ones of the
second subproject, highlights the impact of profiting from the availability of irrigation water to
introduce wider changes in the cropping system.

18.   (From Annex 10). For details, see Evaluation of the Northeast Rural Poverty Reduction
Program: 1993-2005, Binswanger, Barbosa, Costa, Menezes, Pazello and Romano, February
2006. This study examines experiences and outcomes in the Northeast States of Ceará, Piauí and
Rio Grande do Norte.




                                               - 57 -

