Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4649-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rural Poverty Reduction Project - Sergipe)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SERGIPE
Dated February 21, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4649-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 2002 between the  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF SERGIPE (the 
Page  2
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank (the 
Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth:
(a)
“Approved POA” means each approved annual operating plan referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Community Association” means a civil association formed by members of a 
community (
associação civil
)
duly established in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the 
Guarantor's laws, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) for participating in the Project;
(c)
“Community Subproject” means any investment referred to in Part A of the 
Project
 
to be carried out by a Community Association utilizing the proceeds of a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(d)
“Council Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“FUMAC Grant” means a grant approved by a Municipal Council (as hereinafter 
defined) and made or proposed to be made by the Borrower through SEPLANTEC (as 
hereinafter defined) out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Community Association in a 
Municipality (as hereinafter defined), for the financing of a Community Subproject pursuant to 
the terms of the Operational Manual;
(h)
“FUMAC Pilot Grant” means a grant approved and made or proposed to be 
made by a Municipal Council, under a FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreement, out of the proceeds of 
the Loan to a Community Association for the financing of a Community Subproject pursuant to 
the terms of the Operational Manual;
(i)
“FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered 
into between a Municipal Council and a Community Association providing for a FUMAC Pilot 
Grant;
(j)
“Grant” means any of a FUMAC Grant or a FUMAC Pilot Grant or a PAC Grant 
(as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower through SEPLANTEC and a Community Association providing for a PAC Grant or a 
FUMAC Grant;
(l)
 “MIS” means the Project monitoring and information system, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to provide information on Project implementation, including, 
inter alia
,
information on the 
Performance Indicators (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“Model Forms” means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to the 
Bank, including standard drafts of Council Agreements, Grant Agreements and FUMAC Pilot 
Grant Agreements, set forth in the Operational Manual;
(n)
“Municipal Council” means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations, as provided in the Operational Manual;
(o)
“Municipality” means any of the municipalities set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and any other municipality that may be added to such list from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(p)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(q)
“PAC Grant” means a grant approved and made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower through SEPLANTEC out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Community Association 
under a Grant Agreement for the financing of a Community Subproject in accordance with the 
terms of the Operational Manual;
(r)
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be used for 
Page  4
purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in a supplemental letter of even date 
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank, and any other additional performance indicator that 
may be agreed from time to time by the Bank and the Borrower for such purposes;
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(t)
“SEPLANTEC” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning, and Science and 
Technology;
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(v)
“STU” means the Project coordination and technical unit for the Project 
established within SEPLANTEC pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 6417 of August 1, 1984.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty million eight hundred 
thousand dollars ($20,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect 
of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Page  5
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
Page  6
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
SEPLANTEC, with the assistance of the Municipal Councils, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, agricultural, environmental, financial 
and engineering practices, and in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Approved 
POAs, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational 
Manual or any provision thereof.  In the case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement 
and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
SEPLANTEC, maintain during Project Implementation, the STU with responsibilities, structure 
and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through SEPLANTEC:
 
(i)
enter into Grant Agreements, whenever appropriate for the carrying out 
of the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with the terms 
of the respective draft set forth in the Model Forms;
(ii)
enter into Council Agreements with Municipal Councils providing for: 
(A) the terms and conditions for the participation of the relevant 
Municipal Council in the Project; and (B) the obligation of such 
Municipal Council to enter into FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreements with 
Community Associations which shall be made in accordance with the 
terms of the respective draft set forth in the Model Forms, and, to 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the FUMAC 
Pilot Grant Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Municipal Council, the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and not to assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce the FUMAC Pilot Grant Agreements or any provision 
thereof; and
(iii)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the  Council 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the  Council Agreements and the Grant 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
Page  7
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date, the baseline evaluation study (
perfil de 
entrada) 
referred to in Part C.4 of the Project;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during the 
period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank shortly after such report’s preparation, the report referred 
to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by October 30 of each year during Project implementation, commencing on 
October 31, 2002, prepare and furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plans and 
budget, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during 
the next succeeding year and the respective sources of funding therefor; and
(b)
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's budget by its 
Assembléia
 
Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each year in question.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and 
yearly thereafter during the period of Project implementation the results and recommendations of 
an assessment, to be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the cost 
structure and effectiveness of Community Subprojects, including an evaluation of the physical 
performance, and cost comparisons and procurement procedures thereof;
(b)
review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such assessments; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by the 
Page  8
Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph (b) above, as shall be
 
necessary for the efficient implementation of Community Subprojects, such action to be taken in 
a manner and within a timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said Manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(including the procurement and financial requirements thereof);
(b)
criteria for selection of Municipal Councils and Community Associations, and 
Community Subprojects;
(c)
requirements for implementation of Community Subprojects, including: 
environmental criteria and procedures for screening and management of Subprojects, in 
particular for activities that: (i) use wood as fuel; (ii) produce any waste, liquid or solid; (iii) 
involve the procurement of pesticides; (iv) involve the construction of small dams; and (v) 
involve fisheries and aquaculture; and
(d)
the Model Forms.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
Page  9
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than six months after the Effective Date or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
Page  10
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual;
(b)
the Borrower has prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
implementation of the information campaign referred to in Part C.3 of the Project; 
(c)
the Borrower has established and is operating an MIS; and
(d)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the terms of reference for the baseline 
evaluation study, and the overall Project evaluation framework,  as required for the impact 
evaluation to be carried out under Part C.4 of the Project.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan provided for in this Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
Section 5.03. The date May 22, 2002  is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  11
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Planning, and Science and Technology of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria do Planejamento e da Ciência e Tecnologia
Rua Vila Cristina, 1051
Bairro Sao Jose
49020-150 Aracaju, Sergipe
Brazil
Facsímile: 55-79-211 8878
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, DF
Brazil
Facsímile: 55-61-225-4022
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia, 
Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  12
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinod Thomas
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF SERGIPE
By /s/ Albano do Prado Pimentel Franco
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Grants (Goods, Works
75% of the cost of the
and Services)
Community Subproject
financed by a Grant
      (a)
FUMAC Grants
14,400,000
(b) FUMAC Pilot Grants
2,700,000
(c)
PAC Grants
900,000
(2)
Consultants’ services
1,400,000
100%
and training for Parts
B and C of the Project
Page  13
(3) Administrative Costs:
(a)
incremental operational
100,000
20%
costs
(b) Project supervision and
400,000
50%
monitoring costs
(4) Fee
208,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated
692,000
TOTAL
20,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Administrative Costs” means the operational 
costs (which would not have been incurred absent the Project) and the supervision and 
monitoring costs of the Project incurred by the STU under Part C of the Project, excluding 
expenditures for salaries and related benefits and training.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,080,000 may be made on 
account of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case prior to April 19, 2001;
(b)
payments under a Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement or FUMAC Pilot 
Grant Agreement, as the case may be, shall have been entered into between the parties thereto; 
and
(c)
payments under a Grant for a Community Subproject costing more than the 
equivalent of $50,000, unless the Bank shall have approved such Community Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower:
(a)
under contracts for goods or works costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 
per contract; 
(b)
for services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent per contract; and
(c)
for services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent per contract.
Page  14
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
Page  15
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposits by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal 
to $2,000,000 withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed $5,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  16
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the  Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Page  17
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $4,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase social and economic opportunities for 
the Municipalities' rural poor by improving access to basic, social and economic infrastructure 
through Community Subprojects; (b) to increase the social capital of rural communities to 
organize collectively and meet their own needs; and (c) to foster local governance and citizenship 
through creation and strengthening of Municipal Councils, at the same time forging links with 
governmental and non-governmental agencies, civil society, financial institutions and the private 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Community Subprojects
Financing of small scale community investments consisting, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) 
infrastructure investments such as for rural water supply, electrification, local road improvements 
and construction of small bridges; (b) social investments such as construction of day care centers 
and rehabilitation of schools and health posts; and (c) other investments such as for small-scale 
community agro-processing, purchase of agricultural equipment and minor irrigation schemes 
(Community Subprojects) through PAC Grants, FUMAC Grants and/or FUMAC Pilot Grants.
Part B
: Institutional Development
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community Associations in, 
inter alia
,
community mobilization and organization, preparation of Community Subprojects, and operation 
and maintenance of such Community Subprojects.
2.
Training and equipping of Municipal Councils with respect to the role of Municipal 
Councils, the contents of the Operational Manual, subproject evaluation and supervision, 
environmental assessment of subprojects, participatory planning and financial management.
3. 
Provision of on-the-job training and expert advice for the STU, Municipal Councils, and 
Community Associations on technical matters regarding the Community Subprojects 
preparation/execution cycle (such matters to include for example, standard designs, monitoring 
techniques and financial management).
4.
Provision of technical assistance for SEPLANTEC in support of the implementation of 
Page  18
the Borrower's modernization reforms.
5.
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with respect to the 
carrying out of the Project.
Part C
: Project Administration
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision including, 
inter alia
:
1.
the operation of the STU and its field offices related to Project implementation;
2.
the establishment and operation of the MIS;
3.
the design, development and carrying out of a statewide information campaign within the 
Borrower’s territory to disseminate information about the Project; and
4.
the carrying out of studies to assess the impact of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
a
baseline evaluation study, annual physical performance reviews, a mid-term implementation 
review, and a comprehensive impact evaluation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
        (Expressed in Dollars
) *
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2007
1,040,000
through March 15, 2017
______________________
Page  19
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section   4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 hereof, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, and the following 
provisions:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to 
also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
(b)
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for 
at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
(c)
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio)
 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
(d)
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
(e)
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods 
(and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
Page  20
2.
National Shopping
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, works estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works costing $50,000 equivalent or less per contract under 
Community Subprojects, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank 
as provided in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) all as set forth in the Operational Manual.
Part C
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
Page  21
referred to in Parts B.2 and B.3 hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures (including small works), the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  22
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
Page  23
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Municipalities
Agreste de Itabaiana
1.
Areia Branca
2.
Campo do Brito
3.
Itabaiana
4.
Macambira
5.
Malhador
6.
Moita Bonita
7.
São Domingos
Agreste de Lagarto
1.
Arauá
2.
Boquim
3.
Itabaianinha
4.
Lagarto
5.
Pedrinhas
6.
Riachão do Dantas
7.
Salgado
8.
Simão Dias
 
Cotinguiba
1.
Capela
2.
Carmópolis
3.
Divina Pastora
4.
General Maynard
5.
Japaratuba
6.
Laranjeiras
7.
Maruim
8.
Pirambu
9.
Riachuelo
10.
Rosário do Catete
11.
Santa Rosa de Lima
12.
Santo Amaro das Brotas
Page  24
13.
Siriri
 
Litoral Sul Sergipano
1.
Estância
2.
Indiaroba
3.
Itaporanga d'Ajuda
4.
Santa Luzia do Ithany
5.
Umbauba
Nossa Senhora das Dores
1.
Aquidaba
2.
Carira
3.
Cedro de São Joao
4.
Cumbé
5.
Feira Nova
6.
Frei Paulo
7.
Gracho Cardoso
8.
Itabi
9.
Japoatá
10.
Malhada dos Bois
11.
Muribeca
12.
Nossa Senhora Aparecida
13.
Nossa Senhora das Dores
14.
Pedra Mole
15.
Pinhão
16.
Ribeiropolis
17.
São Francisco
18.
São Miguel do Aleixo
 
Propriá
1.
Amparo de São Francisco
2.
Brejo Grande
3.
Canhoba
4.
Ilha das Flores
5.
Neópolis
6.
Nossa Senhora de Lourdes
7.
Pacatuba
8.
Propriá
9.
Santana do São Francisco
10.
Telha
 
Sertão do Rio Real
1.
Cristinapolis
2.
Poço Verde
3.
Tobias Barreto
4.
Tomar do Geru
 
Sertão Sergipano do São Francisco
1.
Canindé de São Francisco
2.
Gararu
Page  25
3.
Monte Alegre de Sergipe
4.
Nossa Senhora da Glória
5.
Poço Redondo
6.
Porto da Folha
