CREDIT NUMBER 1058 BU
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1058 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A OCIATION   (hereinafter called the
Association) and OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (herein-
after called ONATEL).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Burundi (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million, seven hundred thousand dollars
($7,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ONATEL agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ONATEL, the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement, will be made
available to ONATEL on the terms and conditionsp therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS ONATEL, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, hhs
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ONATEL shall carry out the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist ONATEL in carrying out the
Project, especially in: (i) the preparation of detailed engineer-
ing plans, specifications and bidding documents; (ii) bid eval-
uation; (iii) the inspection of equipment and supervision of the
installation thereof, for the Project; and (iv) the preparation
of accounts on a commercial basis, ONATEL shall employ a manage-
ment expert, engineering consultants and a financial advisor, all
of whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ONATEL undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by ONATEL to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ONATEL
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ONATEL shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the r
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) ONATEL shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as


﻿-3-
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ONATEL
and the Association, ONATEL shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by ONATEL and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) ONATEL shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ONATEL and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. ONATEL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association may
otherwise agree, ONATEL shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision- thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ONATEL shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ONATEL shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ONATEL of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ONATEL
Section 3.01. ONATEL shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and


﻿-4-
conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and public utility practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. ONATEL shall:
(a) at all times take all necessary steps to maintain its
existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and
retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement or for the efficient conduct of its
business and undertaking;
(b) at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery,
equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices; and
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
the property or assets owned or operated by it which are necessary
or useful for the efficient conduct of its business and under-
taking.
Section 3.03. ONATEL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ONATEL shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
shall furnish to the Association within four months after the end
of each fiscal year copies of its financial statements for such
year (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses and related
statements).
Section 4.02. ONATEL shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,


﻿-5-
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of ONATEL and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03 (a) ONATEL shall: (i) in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association, undertake a study
of its telecommunications rate structure and tariffs, to be
completed by July 1, 1981 or such later date as may be acceptable
to the Association; and (ii) discuss with the Association, not
later than December 31, 1981, the economic and financial implica-
tions of the execution of the recommendations made in such study.
(b) ONATEL shall not change its telecommunications tariffs
without a prior exchange of views with the Association.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ONATEL
shall take all measures within its power (including but not
limited to adjustments of its telecommunications rate structure
and tariffs), as shall be necessary or appropriate to enable it to
earn an annual rate of return of not less than ten per cent
(10%).
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by using as the deno-
minator the average of the current values of net
fixed telecommunications assets operated by ONATEL
at the beginning and at the end of the year in
question and, as the numerator, the operating
income of ONATEL from its telecommunications
operations for that year.
(ii) The term "current value of net fixed telecommuni-
cations assets" means the gross value of fixed
telecommunications assets as revalued from time to
time, less accumulated depreciation, based on
appropriate valuation and depreciation methods
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-6-
(iii) The term "operating income" means the difference
between operating revenue and operating expenses.
(iv) the term "operating revenue" means all revenue
from telecommunications operations and other
revenue incidental thereto.
(v) The term "operating expenses" means all direct
costs of operation by ONATEL of its telecommunica-
tions facilities, including a reasonable portion of
overhead costs, adequate maintenance expenses, and
an adequate provision for depreciation and taxes,
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.04. Prior to the completion of the Project, ONATEL
shall not undertake any capital expenditures for telecommunica-
tions, other than those provided for in the ONATEL Investment
Program, exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 in any one year,
unless a financing plan therefor has been agreed between the
Association and ONATEL.
Section 4.05. (a) ONATEL shall use funds generated by its
telecommunications operations for any of its other operations, or
make available such funds for any other purpose, only to the
extent that such funds exceed ONATEL's financial requirements for
its telecommunications operating and administrative expenses
(including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any) and after
adequate provision has been made for depreciation and investments,
including debt service requirements, in respect of its telecommu-
nications operations.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
funds payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(ii) The term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
Section 4.06. (a) Not later than December 31, 1980, ONATEL
shall furnish to the Association a plan containing a method
for the revaluation of its fixed assets.


﻿-7-
(b) Upon discussions with and approval by the Association on
the method contained in the plan referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof, ONATEL shall employ such method for the revaluation of its
fixed assets and shall not change the method without prior discus-
sions with the Association.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ONATEL shall not create nor permit to be created any mortgage,
pledge, charge or other lien on any of its property or assets
necessary to its telecommunications operations; provided, however,
that the foregoing a ovision of this Section shall not apply: (i)
to any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) to any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ONATEL thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ONATEL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ONATEL:
Office National des Telcommunications
B.P. 60
Bujumbura
Republique du Burundi
Cable address:                       Telex:
ONATEL                              BDI 82 BUJA
Bujumbura
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ONATEL or by ONATEL on behalf of the
Borrower pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement may be taken
or executed by the Director General of ONATEL or such other person


﻿-9-
or persons as such Director General shall designate in writing,
and ONATEL shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ONATEL shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. ONATEL shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the supply of vehicles and sundry equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 may be


﻿- 11 -
awarded in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procurement
procedures, provided, however, that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of the contracts so awarded
shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.   Contracts for the supply of equipment to be installed in the
existing Bujumbura local and telex exchanges may be awarded on the
basis of price quotations from suppliers capable of providing
equipment compatible with existing equipment. The awarding of any
such contract shall be subject to prior approval by the Associa-
tion.
3.   Civil works for the construction of buildings and access
roads may be carried out by force account by ONATEL.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ONATEL shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ONATEL
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ONATEL and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, ONATEL shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ONATEL and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  Z         day of
198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


