                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank


                                                      Report No: ICR00003127




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-74670 IDA-41050)

                                      ON A

                          IDA CREDIT and IBRD LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6MILLION

                        (US$25.0MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       and

                             EURO36.80 MILLION
                       (US$49.37MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

                                    FOR AN

          IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                 October 22, 2014



Water Global Practice
South East Europe Country Unit

Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective October 20, 2014)

                 Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar (RSD)
                          1.00 = US$ 0.011
                         US$ 1.00 = 93.880

                  GOVERNMENT’S FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF         Additional Financing
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
DoW        Directorate of Water, under MAFWM
DTD        Danube-Tisa-Danube canal system
EA         Environmental Assessment
EAR        European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU         European Union
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRY        Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoS        Government of Serbia
HMS        Hydrometeorological Service of Serbia
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICPDR      International Commission for Protection of the Danube River
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA        International Development Association
IDRP       Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IPA        Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance
IPARD      Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance in rural Development
ISR        Implementation Status and Results
MAFWM      Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management
MIDP       Minor Irrigation Development Program
MIDPU      Minor Irrigation Development Program Unit
MSEP/DEP   Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, Directorate of
           Environmental Protection
NPV        Net Present Value
O&M        Operations and Maintenance
OP         Operational Policy
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PIM        Participatory irrigation management
PIT        Project Implementation Team
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PHRD              Japan Policy and Human Resource Development technical assistance grants
ROS               Republic of Serbia
SaM               Serbia and Montenegro
Serbiavode        Public Water Authority under DoW for all areas of Serbia except Vojvodina
TTL               Task Team Leader
Vode Vojvodine    Public Water Authority under DoW for Vojvodina region
WFD               Water Framework Directive
WUAs              Water Users Associations




                              Vice President: Laura Tuck
                           Country Director: Ellen Goldstein
             Senior Global Practice Director: Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                           Practice Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
                       Project Team Leader: Nikola Ille
                          ICR Team Leader: Nikola Ille
                        ICR Primary Author Daniel Gerber
                                      REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
                           Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 42
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 67
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 68
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 69
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 70
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Irrigation & Drainage
Country:                Serbia                  Project Name:             Rehabilitation Project
                                                                          (Serbia)
                                                                          IBRD-74670,IDA-
Project ID:             P087964                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          41050
ICR Date:               08/05/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          SERBIA
Original Total
                        USD 25.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 71.25M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 74.37M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources Management –
Directorate of Water
Nemanjina 22-26
11000 Belgrade, Serbia
Tel: ++381-11-201-33-66, Fax: ++381-11-311-53-70
E-Mail: nikola.marjanovic@minpolj.sr.gov.yu
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/27/2004     Effectiveness:            03/06/2006         03/06/2006
Appraisal:            03/22/2005     Restructuring(s):                            05/28/2013
Approval:             07/12/2005     Mid-term Review:          05/04/2009         05/05/2009
                                     Closing:                  05/31/2011         03/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
                      Moderately                               Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                      Unsatisfactory                           Unsatisfactory



                                                i
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      27                    20
Irrigation and drainage                                                73                    80


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                            28                    40
Rural policies and institutions                                        14                    10
Rural services and infrastructure                                      29                    40
Water resource management                                              29                    10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:           Ellen A. Goldstein                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Practice Manager:           Dina Umali-Deininger                 Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader:        Nikola Ille
ICR Team Leader:            Nikola Ille
ICR Primary Author:         Daniel P. Gerber




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's main objectives are to: (a) improve the capacity for increased agricultural
yields through support to high priority rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation
infrastructure; (b) reduce the risk of damage from flooding to land, crops, property,
infrastructure as well as reducing risk of life loss from flooding in project areas; and (c)
improve water resources management and strengthen the associated water resource
management institutions and policies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increased crop yield resulting from irrigation and drainage improvements
                                                                                11% increase in
Value                                                                           yields and
quantitative or 0                          10                                   production cost
Qualitative)                                                                    reductions between
                                                                                15 and 20%
Date achieved 03/01/2006                   03/01/2006                           04/01/2014
                Confusion on the target figure between the ISR and the PAD. The nomenclature
Comments
                is also not consistent. PAD defined a production increase while ISR defines a
(incl. %
                yield increase. Production cost reduction along with yield increase = increase in
achievement)
                productivity. Figures reported in ISR are used for ICR.
Indicator 2 : Increased area protected against flooding
Value
quantitative or 0                          56000ha              500000          440000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2006                   03/01/2006           05/31/2007      04/01/2014
Comments
                Objective nearly 90% achieved in spite of reduction of investment volume by
(incl. %
                dropping counterpart funding and relocation of some works.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Population protected from flooding risk
Value
quantitative or 0                          1800000              1100000         1100000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2006                   05/31/2007           06/01/2013      04/01/2014
Comments        The original project estimated some 250,000 people would benefit. Under AF
(incl. %        that figure was optimistically increased to 1.8 million to be adjusted in the latest
achievement) restructuring to 1.1 million.
Indicator 4 : Area provided with irrigation and drainage services improved


                                                 iii
                                                                                  175,000ha of arable
                                                                                  land benefitting
Value
                                                                                  from combined
quantitative or 0                            247,000ha
                                                                                  drainage and flood
Qualitative)
                                                                                  protection
                                                                                  infrastructure.
Date achieved 03/01/2006                     03/01/2006                           04/01/2014
                Core sector indicator. Confusing in Serbian context as drainage system
Comments
                simultaneously serves as irrigation source and I&D system works in concert with
(incl. %
                flood protection of all territory including forests, agricultural land and urban
achievement)
                land.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Area benefitting from reduced water logging and improved drainage
Value
(quantitative   0                           278000ha                         105,525ha
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2006                    03/01/2006                       04/01/2014
                Area served in concert by flood protection and I&D amounts to 175,000ha.
Comments
                However, pure rehabilitation within I&D systems only amounted to 105,525 ha.
(incl. %
                Designation of various systems and relationship not clearly defined in project,
achievement)
                difficult to segregate from each other.
Indicator 2 : Length of flood embankments rehabilitated to 1:100 flood levels
Value
                                                              86km + 9 km
(quantitative   0                           9km                              135km
                                                              = 95km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2006                    03/01/2006        05/31/2007     04/01/2014
Comments
                Length of flood protection embankments rebuilt or rehabilitated. 135km total of
(incl. %
                which 15.8km Danube, 24.9km Tisa, 95.1km other rivers.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of minor irrigation schemes constructed
Value
                                                                             17 sites for 7
(quantitative   0                           30
                                                                             WUAS
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2006                    03/01/2006                       04/01/2014
Comments        Target was not achieved in part due to lower funding of the component and
(incl. %        delays with WUA legislation. However, innovative approach provides good
achievement) sustainability prospects.
Indicator 4 : Directorate of water participants attending training and study tours
Value
(quantitative   0                                             16 specialists 17 specialists
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2006                                      05/31/2013     04/01/2014



                                                 iv
Comments
(incl. %          Output towards component 3
achievement)
                  Reduced farm production costs as a result of reduced water logging and
Indicator 5 :
                  improved drainage
                                                                 Production
                                                                                 Cost reduction
                                                                 Costs to be
                                                                                 between 13 and
                                                                 reduced
Value                                                                            27% depending on
                                                                 between 15
(quantitative     0                          10%                                 region and crop as
                                                                 and 20% based
or Qualitative)                                                                  compiled in impact
                                                                 upon study on
                                                                                 study of February
                                                                 crop
                                                                                 2014.
                                                                 indicators.
Date achieved     03/01/2006                 03/01/2006          05/31/2013      01/02/2014
Comments          Confusion in PAD, ISR and Restructuring paper between concepts of production,
(incl. %          yields and productivity. Increased yields with lower production cost = increased
achievement)      productivity
Indicator 6 :     Radar for recording precipitation impacting river levels installed and operational
                                                                 Doppler radar
Value
                                             Models for flood to improve         Doppler radar
(quantitative     0
                                             management          hydromet and operational
or Qualitative)
                                                                 flood forecast
Date achieved     03/01/2006                 03/01/2006          05/13/2013      04/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Objective achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Water policy drafted and approved
Value                                                                          Water Framework
                  No Water Framework        Water framework
(quantitative                                                                  law adopted in
                  Law                       legislation adopted
or Qualitative)                                                                2011
Date achieved     03/01/2006                06/01/2011                         04/01/2014
Comments
                  WUA legislation developed disclosed and discussed in parliament. Objective
(incl. %
                  partially met.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of farmers that attend environmental awareness program
Value
(quantitative     0                         90                                 90
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2006                05/31/2013                         04/01/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator added to show output from institutional component 3.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Number of WUAs fully established under MIDP
Value
(quantitative     0                         15                                 28
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/01/2006                03/01/2006                         04/01/2014
Comments          Target value exceeded.



                                                  v
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    03/08/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/09/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.77
  3    11/09/2006        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              0.77
  4    07/25/2007        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              0.99
  5    01/11/2008        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              1.42
                                                 Moderately
  6    12/29/2008       Satisfactory                                            2.35
                                               Unsatisfactory
                                                 Moderately
  7    09/09/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                     4.89
                                               Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  8    03/17/2010                                                               9.07
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
  9    06/15/2010                           Moderately Satisfactory             9.43
                       Unsatisfactory
 10    04/02/2011   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   14.05
 11    06/06/2011   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   18.30
 12    12/12/2011   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   33.82
 13    06/07/2012   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   41.57
 14    12/25/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            52.41
 15    06/28/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            62.04
 16    12/22/2013   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                   69.47
 17    03/29/2014   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            70.52


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/28/2013               MS      S          62.04




                                          vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At project inception the Republic of Serbia (ROS) and Montenegro had a population of
about 10 million1, of which some 50% lived in rural areas, and 17% derived their living
from agriculture and associated industries. In 2005, agriculture, including agro-
processing, accounted for about 15% of Serbia’s gross domestic product (GDP) and 20%
of its exports.

Serbia is composed of three main agricultural regions where topography, soil type and
climatic conditions influence the type of agricultural products and farming systems.
About 65% of Serbia’s arable land lies in Vojvodina in the East of the Pannonian plain
that is mostly flat, very fertile but extremely flood prone with large mostly grain and
intensive livestock farms. The topography in Central Serbia includes both flood plains of
the Danube, Sava, Drina and Morava rivers, and hilly terrain. Here farms remain mainly
of small and medium size, and farming systems more diverse than in Vojvodina.
Southern Serbia is mostly hilly and suffers from severe depopulation and is characterized
by small farms, an arid summer climate, with mostly of extensive fruits and vegetables as
the main crops, while sheep grazing on natural pastures dominate livestock production.

Over the centuries a vast and complex system of canals, pumping stations and associated
structures were built in the country which culminated with the Danube-Tisa-Danube
deviation system in the Yugoslav days, to serve the purposes of flood control, drainage
and irrigation as well as transport and municipal water supply. Unfortunately during the
1980s and 1990s these systems suffered from deferred maintenance and budgets cuts
which led to the deterioration of the irrigation-drainage and flood control infrastructure
generally.

At project preparation the country had just emerged form a decade of isolation with a
fairly reform minded government that was keen on pushing an aggressive reform agenda
to modernize the economy and government institutions. However, significant resistance
had mobilized against reforms particularly within governmental institutions or socially
owned semi-private bodies. These bodies often had disproportionally benefitted from
budgetary largess, enjoyed significant political patronage and were often over-staffed
relative to their mandate. The change in the political climate after elections shortly
following project approval made deep reform difficult as already reflected by the caveat
in the description in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of the institutional
component 3.




1
  Serbia has since been divided into 3 countries with Montenegro splitting of in 2006 as a result of a
referendum held on May 21, 2006 accepted by the international community at large, and Kosovo declaring
independence in 2008 albeit it is not fully recognized by the international community.



                                                  1
Agricultural Sector and Policy - Serbia has large areas of agricultural land with high
quality soils, a strategic trading location, and an educated workforce. Primary agricultural
production and agro-processing was estimated to be 15 % of GDP and 20 % of exports in
2005. At project preparation, some 0.8 million hectare (ha), or 15 % of the arable land
was operated by about 1,050 large corporate farms and agrokombinats2. Privately owned
commercial farms averaged around 10 ha and accounted for 46 % of arable land. The
remaining 39 % comprised an estimated 600,000 small private farms, most under five ha
and often consisting of several fragmented parcels of land producing primarily for their
own use consumption, and depending heavily on non-farm income. Serbia restructured its
subsidy program away from commodity support to a single area payment system. The
change did lead to competitiveness improvements mainly on larger farms but there
remain important regional variations in production systems, farm efficiency and farm
incomes.

Water Resource Management Institutions - All major hydraulic infrastructure was and
remains under the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Management (MAFWM).
The Directorate of Water (DoW) under MAFWM controlled most hydraulic operations
through two Public Water Authorities, the Vode Vojvodine for Vojvodina specifically,
and Serbiavode for the remainder of the country. MAFWM and its subordinate
departments and directorates were supported by long established technical institutes and
the universities with strong technical capacities. However, economic transition and the
isolation from the war left these agencies with major financial challenges with resources
often only covering salaries. The lack of resource led to fewer research programs, the
hollowing out of the qualified workforce leaving for the private sector, and increasingly
dilapidated equipment and facilities.

Policy and Institutional Issues in irrigation, drainage and flood control – In the recent
past Serbia had not been able to maintain a sufficient level of operations and maintenance
(O&M) and its water infrastructure was rapidly deteriorating and in some cases risked
collapsing. The unclear division between regulatory and management functions lead to
conflicts of interest between policy making and implementation on the ground. The lack
of involvement of users in water management made for ineffective prioritization of works
and poor coordination with local beneficiaries and communities. The lack of competition
on contracted works for O&M of infrastructure led to high contract costs and resistance
to innovation and patronage. The result of all these factors was poor O&M, poor
governance with the various institutions not getting paid for services leading to a spiral of
continuous decline.

This required urgent reorganization in the sector including measures towards a more
participatory and integrated approach to water management. Changes in the legal and
regulatory framework aimed at achieving an increased accountability from institutions



2
  Agrokombinats - were large socially owned vertically integrated agricultural enterprises that dominated
agricultural production in Yugoslavia.




                                                     2
involved in water resources management were necessary. The water sector strategy of
the MAFWM broadly addressed these issues but left key aspects such as timing for
improvements in governance, management, financing and regulation undefined. It
emphasized the need for a legal framework including a law on water management and
legislation on financing of water management. A Water Framework Law was drafted
broadly in line with the European Union (EU) Water Framework Directive (WFD),
including principles of the “user pays”, “polluter pays” and river basin management. The
adoption of this legislation however remained pending for more than five years after
project approval as it was mired in a succession of parliamentary reviews that attempted
to eviscerate the reforms that would have affected the institutions and the personnel of
some of the concerned institutions and refocused budget resources and force institutional
alignment.

Drainage: Some 29% of the Serbia’s land area and 2.67 million ha (or 52%) of
agricultural land has poor natural drainage. In Vojvodina specifically, due to its level
terrain, some 1.61 million ha are affected, representing about 90% of agricultural lands in
that region. To address the drainage and waterlogging some 2.08 million ha nationwide
have been provided with drainage infrastructure in over 400 drainage areas incorporating
210 pumping stations and 22,600 km of drainage channels. Over 58,000 ha are equipped
with tile sub-drainage. Due to poor O&M the drainage channels are overcome with
siltation and weed growth while the associated structures and pumping stations have not
had the scheduled repair and overhaul. Widespread rehabilitation was required.

Flood Control: It was estimated that some 1.57 million ha, especially in areas adjacent
to the large flood plain rivers, are subject to flooding. Of this area, 1.45 million ha are in
Vojvodina and the plains northeast of Belgrade; the rest are in Central Serbia. About
30% of agricultural land is vulnerable to flooding, as are 512 larger settlements, 515
industrial installations, 4,000 km of roads, and 680 km of railways. To meet this hazard,
over the years some 3,434 km of flood amelioration levees and 30 flood control
reservoirs had been built. Deferred maintenance of the levees, dams, and their
appurtenant structures, means that the system required widespread rehabilitation. Gaps
needed filling, and older levees needed heightening to meet higher flood protection
criteria common in the EU. Without attention to these flood protection facilities,
additional investment in irrigation and drainage improvements in the areas prone to
flooding was pointless. Work in this sub-sector was of the highest priority and would
result in rapid and substantial benefits. These observations were confirmed when shortly
after the project was approved the country suffered widespread flooding along the Tisa
and Danube which lead to the approval of the Additional Financing (AF).

Irrigation: As of 2005 about 120,000 ha of irrigation were developed in Serbia
representing about 3% of the available arable land. Irrigation development in Serbia was
focused almost exclusively on public sector funded and managed large-scale (major)
mechanized irrigation (laterals) previously operated by agrokombinats drawing water
from dual function canals. The majority of schemes covering some 90,278 ha were in
Vojvodina, with the balance located in Central Serbia, mainly in the region of Drina-Sava




                                              3
(Macva) near Belgrade, and in the Morava valley. At project appraisal only about 35,000
ha were actually fully utilized, with a further 47,000 ha partially functional.

Little attention was given to minor irrigation and small farmers, especially in the hilly
areas of Central Serbia. With their more sloping terrain and smaller farms, a combination
of sprinkler, drip and surface methods was practised however mainly out of the farmers
own initiative and financing. Consequently, irrigation in Central and Southern Serbia
was relatively rare. A program to introduce small irrigation in selected areas of Central
Serbia would significantly increase the yields of high value horticultural crops that many
small farmers were producing. The project was a first attempt to help organise a program
to support these smaller family farms.

Rationale for Bank involvement - At the request of the Government of Serbia (GOS), the
Bank reviewed the issues facing water resources management including irrigation,
drainage, and flood protection in Serbia. The conclusion was that during the past decade,
the water sector has seriously deteriorated and investments were necessary to restore the
functionality of essential drainage and flood control infrastructure and for longer-term
institutional reform to make water resources management more productive, efficient and
financially sustainable.

At preparation, the Bank project was to complement ongoing reform initiatives in the
sector such as the EUs assistance to Serbia for the adoption of the EU Water and Flood
Directive and to develop a new umbrella water law to rationalize and modernize the
sector. EU assistance focused primarily on environmental protection, with limited focus
on the economically productive uses of water for agriculture, water supply and industry.
The Bank would complement EU activities by providing further support to build capacity
of the DoW and its partners to develop a framework and process for long-term policy,
legislative and institutional reform in the water sector, particularly in the irrigation and
drainage subsectors. The 2005 and 2006 floods and prompt “emergency” response by the
Bank reoriented the focus more towards institutions and works providing flood protection.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project's main objectives were to: (a) improve the capacity for increased agricultural
yields through support to high priority rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation
infrastructure; (b) reduce the risk of damage from flooding to land, crops, property,
infrastructure as well as reducing risk of life loss from flooding in project areas; and (c)
improve water resources management and strengthen the associated water resource
management institutions and policies. The AF kept the PDOs as defined at project design.

1.3 Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO remained the same throughout the project implementation period. However,
with additional financing the emphasis became heavily biased towards flood protection.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
Some 305,000 ha were to benefit from the project investments, affecting 250,000
inhabitants who would benefit from improved flood protection. With additional financing


                                             4
these figures where revised upwards to 500,000 ha in area protected from floods, and
some 1.8 million people benefitting from the flood protection.

1.5 Original Components
The original project size was about US$32.7 million consisting of a US$25.0 million
credit, US$6.97 million borrower contribution and a US$0.73 million contribution from
project beneficiaries. The project was composed of the following components:

Component 1. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Drainage and Flood Control
Infrastructure: Rehabilitation and improvement works would include: (a) rehabilitation
of drainage facilities, including pumps and maintenance equipment; and (b) rehabilitation
of flood control defenses to give a 1 in 100 year flood protection for agricultural and
minor settlements, and a 1 in 1,000 year protection for large settlements and industry.

Component 2. Minor Irrigation Development Program: This program was to support
the development and/or rehabilitation and improvement of minor irrigation schemes
mainly in the hilly regions of Central and Southern Serbia. These schemes would mostly
be of less than 300 ha each and total about 4,000 ha. Selection of areas for the schemes
would be based on a set of criteria, chief among them is farmers’ willingness to establish
a Water Users Association (WUA) that would bear full costs of the future O&M of the
new or rehabilitated infrastructure. Other technical, environmental and economic
considerations were also taken into account during the selection process. Project support
to build capacity of DoW to provide technical assistance to the WUAs was included
under the Institutional Strengthening Component (Component 3). The project was also to
provide O&M equipment for the WUAs. Beneficiaries of the minor irrigation schemes
component were expected to contribute 10 % of the costs of construction/ rehabilitation
and 20% of the costs of O&M equipment that would be provided to them.

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: This component
aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of water sector institutions. DoW
capacity in its regulatory and strategic functions, particularly in the irrigation and
drainage sub-sector, and at field testing participatory irrigation and drainage management
principles under the assumption that only limited changes in the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework will be introduced in Serbia during the project implementation
period. Following this approach the component was to: (a) establish and support a
Working Group in staff to the DoW to oversee and coordinate development of
information (including an information database), policy, legal/regulatory, and strategic
innovation for integrated water resources management, especially in the irrigation and
drainage sub-sector; (b) support the Government program to reform the public water
authorities and their district water control agencies; (c) test WUAs to provide the
institutional basis for ensuring that the construction or upgrading of the 20 minor
irrigation systems (under the Minor Irrigation Development Program in Component 2)
incorporates participatory mechanisms; and (d) pilot test the formation and development
of a water board in Vojvodina under the assumptions that it will be governed by farmer
representatives, regulated by the government, and financed by farmers.




                                            5
The component was to also include provision of various equipment and studies for other
public institutions that have been deemed to be crucial, independently from the
institutional option to be sought by the Government in the medium-long term.
Specifically, this was to include: (i) an upgrade the flood forecasting and warning system
that has been developed by the Hydrometeorological Service of Serbia; (ii) support the
Vegetable Crops Research Centre; (iii) strengthen the agromet system; (iv) install and
calibrate a software modeling system for control of the Danube-Tisa-Danube canal
system (DTD) hydrosystem; and (v) study the feasibility requirements for rehabilitating
two priority major irrigation schemes.

Component 4. Project Management and Monitoring: The project was to provide
support to the Government to implement the project. It included support for: (a) overall
project management, and technical assistance in such areas as detailed design, contract
administration and construction supervision, procurement and financial management, and
participatory water management institutions; (b) monitoring and evaluation of project
impacts; (c) development of environmental management plans for rehabilitation and
construction activities carried out under the project; and (d) annual financial audits of
project accounts

1.6 Revised Components
The initial dialogue with government included discussions of a substantially larger credit
than eventually allocated under the original project. Constraints related to the
International Development Association (IDA) envelope as well as absorption capacity
constraints limited the original credit to US$25.00 million which would leave out major
needs in rehabilitation of flood control infrastructure. The floods in 2005, while the
project went to the Board, and in the subsequent year, convinced management of the
urgent need for additional resources to conduct targeted rehabilitation works on Serbia’s
flood protection infrastructure.

There were no significant changes to components from the original project design. Even
with AF, conceptually the components remained essentially the same. The AF was to
finance mostly an expansion of flood protection works. Allocation of the resources from
AF was not clearly assigned to the original individual component activities leading to
some confusion as to the ratio of drainage relative to flood protection works to be
financed. The AF did also not include a closing date extension, which given the volume
of additional financial resources and the delays the original project had been confronted
with, appears somewhat optimistic.

Under component 2, a significant change was the decision in consultation with WUAs
and local stakeholders that in some cases, instead of building complete irrigation systems,
fields would be provided with electricity access. This then allowed farmers who for the
most part had already been operating their own gasoline pumps to switch to electrical
pumping which dramatically lowered operating costs. Electricity would keep the
irrigation process very simple as most farmers already employ either drip irrigation
technology or sprinklers in orchards and field crops. Electrification allows for farmers to
adapt gradually to irrigation including finding new markets for the higher value crops that



                                            6
can be produced as a consequence of readily available irrigation. Pumping is a necessity
as water is drawn from canals that also serve as drainage during the wet season. WUAs
are primarily ensuring that payment of electricity bills to the utility are made by
controlling the lock on the power meters and plugs, and played a major role in
determining where power lines and connections were placed.

The component design of the project remained relevant throughout the project
implementation period. However, given the frequent changes in the Ministry, and
resistance to implementing the vision defined in the water strategy by main institutional
stakeholders in the water sector, component 3 lost some of its integrity relative to the
other activities of the project even though significant aspects were effectively delivered.

1.7 Other significant changes
As reflected above, after the severe floods of 2006 the project obtained AF amounting to
some US$50.0 million in International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) financing to address strengthening on the flood defenses along the Tisa, Danube
and Sava rivers. All these rivers overtopped their dykes in 2006 mainly due to large snow
accumulations and heavy spring rains that overwhelmed the system that had suffered
from years of poor maintenance. The aim of the AF was to improve flood protection from
the existing 1- 25 year standard to a minimum 1-50 years in rural areas and a minimum1-
500 standard in protecting town perimeters and industrial areas covered by the project.
Substantial sections of low level levies had significant damages from erosion, piping and
other issues as a result of poor maintenance but were not of high priority due to the lower
relative value of assets that they were protecting. These standards are below the
requirements of the EU flood directives but represent a compromise to maximize flood
protected areas and focus the 1-100 year protection on priority agricultural areas and 1-
1000 years protection for urban areas while some industrial areas would remain at 1-500
year protection level.

A major issue also affecting the outcomes but especially the outputs under this project is
related to the financial crisis that hit the Balkan countries particularly hard. To mitigate
the impact on implementation from potential counterpart funding shortfalls, the Bank in
consultation with its clients in the region approved a modification of its disbursement
terms to the full financing of all project expenditures. While this decision provided relief
to implementing agencies that had ongoing contracts to pay, it also significantly reduced
the overall financial envelope of the project and reduced project outputs.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
This was the first World Bank project in Serbia after the collapse of Yugoslavia and the
ensuing Balkan wars that brought a number of sanctions against the country. There had
not been any World Bank support to the Western Balkan region in the water/irrigation
sector for some two decades with the exception of Albania and FYR Macedonia which
each had ongoing irrigation projects.




                                              7
Bank support was requested by the Serbian authorities which resulted in a reconnaissance
mission in late January 2004 that was led by the Sector Manager. The government
presented a very clear case for the key objectives and the priority needs that needed to be
addressed under the project. This included institutional reforms in the regulatory and
legal framework of the water sector to address the new economic environment as a result
of broad based reforms. After a long period of isolation the reengagement with the
international community and the Bank was led by a young reform oriented government
team, with willingness for deep reforms to bring the country towards EU accession and
integration. The project was prepared within approximately a year and overall the design
substantially reflected the request of the government with the exception of the amount of
financial resources it had expected to address flood protection works. Originally a
US$75.0 million project had been discussed which then was reduced to US$25.0 million
due to a lack of IDA funds but also some reservations to the absorption capacity of the
country.

Project preparation benefited from a strong and clear demand from the reform oriented
Ministry of Agriculture. A preparation Grant was supporting the process that was
extended once in order to allow complete absorption of the grant resources and
completion of the preparation studies and technical designs as well as the environmental
and social assessments. The Bank team involved at preparation comprised civil engineers
institutional specialists for WUA development and for the regulatory framework in the
water sector as well as environmental and social development specialists.

Lessons were drawn from FYR Macedonia in particular that had a similar institutional
and economic history than Serbia. Ongoing programs mainly in Central Asia pointed to
the need of users’ involvement early in the project design and engagement in a
partnership between users and providers for successful irrigation and drainage
development.

Risks related to implementing institutional reforms at the regulatory level as well as it
relates to organizing users and formation of user association were both rated as
substantial while project management as it relates to fiduciary and contract management
we reconsidered moderate. Ultimately, these assessments proved accurate, given that the
project activities and works were substantially delivered, but institutional reforms, in
spite of the new water framework law, remain lagging.

AF was prepared as a consequence of the major floods that affected the country in 2006.
It was also partly in response to the larger amount requested by government for the
original project for the rehabilitation of flood protection infrastructure. The government
had a full rehabilitation program ready for support. The AF fit neatly into the original
PDOs and the indicators to measure the impact of the AF appeared clear and concise,
however lacked a good accurate baseline against which progress would be measured.


2.2 Implementation
The project was approved in July 2005 but only became effective in March of 2006
mainly due to the delays with meeting requirements with fiduciary staffing of the project


                                             8
implementation team (PIT). The major flood in early 2006 lead to significant delays and
were then also the impetus for the project’s additional finance in order to expand the
scope of works related to the flood protection and drainage infrastructure under
component 1 primarily. The PIT had a significant learning curve, even after sites were
finally contracted. Initially, the challenges mainly related to obtaining the proper cadaster
and land use maps, the ground measurements to obtain necessary clearances and
approvals at local and agency level for the issuance of necessary permits to conduct
works. Once this process was clarified progress was good and further delays were largely
beyond the project’s scope of control as they stemmed from seasonal high water levels
that prevented contractor’s access to sites.

The Ministry of Agriculture formally in charge for project implementation suffered from
the volatile political climate with frequent changes of top positions. These changes along
with significant resistance from some of the bodies concerned by the proposed reforms
under the project made decision making very slow and hampered agreement within the
Ministry and local water authorities on priorities for works. As a result, the PIT took it
upon itself to determine priorities with much less consultation with the Ministry than
envisaged at design. It developed a pipeline of investments, synchronized the permit
process with local authorities to improve communications and reduce the delays involved.
This helped in ensuring that the project works were nearly fully delivered by project end,
but with the negative impact that the Ministry and its DoW have acquired little capacity
from the project implementation experience and public procurement, and contract
management of larger works conducted under the project.

The AF document was prepared without clear definition of how the AF would break
down drainage and flood protection. While the AF gives a good perspective of the type of
damage that needed rehabilitating, the allocation by components was unclear. Given that
recovery after the floods was financed through various international financial institutions
and donors, in some cases sites were reprioritized in line with financing available which
led to some discrepancy in achieving indicators which were only partially adjusted in the
May 2013 restructuring.

There were delays as well under component 2 for minor irrigation works. These were
primarily due to the difficulties in coming to agreement with the water framework
legislation and ultimately the legislation of WUAs. The water law was adopted only late
in the project in 2010, some five years after project approval when it had already been
drafted. Another factor was also that reaching agreement with WUAs on the type of
system whether electrification or pipeline installation also took a bit of time as WUAs
had to contribute a minimum of 10% of systems cost. In some early identified WUAs, the
farmer contribution could not be collected, and the proposed sites had to be dropped in
favor of sites where farmers were more responsive. Depending on the system options
chosen by farmers, the contributions to the total project cost could change considerably
from one WUA to another. The demand driven nature of the prioritization mechanism for
support under this component has led to some delays, but also built up the commitment
by users to the systems that have been provided. At project closing most systems had just




                                              9
been finished but the few systems where works had been completed in the prior year,
payments from farmers against invoices were fully collected.

The institutional aspects were significantly affected by the political volatility and lack of
continuity in vision. This resulted in severe delays in the adoption of the water
framework law and accompanying regulation. The volatile decision making also affected
the project in the sense that bodies initially slated for project support were suddenly
privatized and not eligible for Bank support. The evolution of technology also
necessitated a review of the originally planned support to hydro-meteorological services,
which led to the conclusion that a modern meteorological forecasting system benefitting
farmers beyond simply flood management was preferable and led to the procurement of
the Doppler radar system instead of the flood forecasting modelling that had originally
been envisaged. The decision was also in part to be attributed to conflict between various
water management bodies as to access and data control of such a modelling exercise.

Implementation as reflected above was also heavily affected by the financial crisis which
left the country challenged in meeting its fixed obligations related to social benefits and
its overall budgetary envelope. In response to this situation the project dropped its co-
financing requirements in 2008 and thus reduced the overall investment envelope and
consequently the scope of outputs. Given the reduced funding, the focus was heavily
concentrated towards completing construction works while institutional aspects became
of secondary importance. This decision while questionable reflects the reality of the lack
of political vision in and continuity in spite of an existing strategy to undertake deep
sector reforms while works benefitted from near unquestioned political support at all
levels. On the flip side the quasi emergency nature of the works under AF to protect the
population and assets warranted this decision especially given that with the heavy recent
floods, the facilities built under the project along the Tisa and lower Danube have made a
real difference for many people and towns that were substantially spared from the
disaster

Because the AF did not include a closing date extension, in February 2010, the project
closing date was extended from May 2011 by two years to May 2013 to allow for the
execution of the additional works resulting from the AF. A final closing date extension
was made in 2013, providing an additional nine months for conclusion of ongoing works
and restructuring to align some of the indicators in line with project execution.
Cumulatively the delays resulted in two project closing date extensions of a total of 2
years and 11 months with the project finally closing on April 30, 2014. There was high
expectation by the PIT for a follow up project which did not materialize. Ultimately
some US$3.65 million and some US$870,000 were cancelled from the IBRD Loan and
IDA credit respectively as some works were contracted too late and could not be
completed by project closing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The project objectives achievement would be reflected in the achievement of three key
variables: (i) increased crop production resulting from irrigation and drainage
improvements, (ii) increased area protected from flooding, and (iii) increased standards



                                             10
of protection for population under flood risk. These variables were to be measured by the
following indicators as defined in section B2 of the PAD.
     area benefiting from reduced water logging and improved drainage;
     area protected against flooding;
     reduced number of population under flooding risk;
     area benefited from minor irrigation development;
     increase in crop production in the areas benefiting from improved drainage,
        irrigation and flood control;
     number of WUAs and drainage boards established; and
     finalized legal and regulatory aspects of water resources management

The Indicators where not exactly formulated in the same fashion in the results framework
of the PAD, and the in the Supplemental Letter No. 2 of the Credit Agreement.

Both lists reflect a combination of outcomes as well as output indicators. The results
framework in the PAD used a combination of these indicators including quantitative
milestones. The Implementation Status and Results (ISR) contained the following
indicators:

       Increased crop production as a result of irrigation and drainage improvements.
       Increased area protected against flooding
       Increased standard of protection for population under flood risk.
       Finalization and enforcement of regulatory aspects of water resources
        management
       Area benefiting from reduced water logging and improved drainage
       Length of flood levies rehabilitated to 1:100 flood levels on Danube and Sava
        Rivers
       Number of minor irrigation schemes constructed to increase
       Increased capacity of the Directorate of Waters in water resources management
        through participants attending training and study tours.

While the definition of the indicators reflected a lack of consistency between the various
documents, in general in combination with each other, the indicators allow for an
assessment of the achievement towards the PDO. The inconsistent wording was
accompanied by target figures and final quantities to be achieved that were not carefully
assessed in some cases.

In many ways the institutional indicator reflected a substantially less ambitious agenda
than could be understood from the PDO. In fact, the component 3 description downplays
far reaching legal, regulatory and institutional framework reforms. The indicators were
output oriented and some became obsolete due to privatization of some of the
beneficiaries originally intended, and adoption of Doppler radar rather than upgrading of
individual hydromet stations. At restructuring in May 2013 these two indicators were
dropped and replaced by two new indicators. As such while the PDO is far reaching in
the definition of its third objective, actual activities and outputs to be delivered as
measured by indicators were in fact quite limited.



                                            11
With AF, the figure of the second outcome indicator “increased area protected against
flooding” was increased from 56,340ha to half a million ha while the population
protected from floods would increase from a quarter million to 1.8 million people. Both
output indicators are key contributors to the PDOs and in combination with the data being
collected in the ISR offer a reasonably good basis for the assessment of impact of the
project. However, the actual targets were determined without having the detailed baseline
data at hand. For population especially the figure was overstated and relied on old
statistics not taking into account the population flows away from several towns where
industry collapsed after the introduction of market reforms.3

A baseline study was prepared in 2007 and updated in late 2011 when most works had
been substantially delivered or were at least ongoing along with a beneficiary survey.
Survey results are reflected in annex 5. The data collection for progress in works relied
on typical engineering scheduling of works. Completion of works was then compared
with topographical and flood maps to determine the actual areas and population protected.
This information was then used to update results framework and in the determination of
achievement of objectives. This is an effective and transparent mechanism to monitor
outcomes in flooding. WUA support was handled by a dedicated team that undertook
regular field visits and coordinated efforts with local authorities and utilities to ensure
farmers whishes were adequately addressed in the design.

In 2013, when the project was restructured and a further extension of the closing date was
requested, the indicators were cleaned up (in some cases dropped or reworded), and
streamlined for the last year of implementation. On that occasion, some of the
quantitative values of some of the indicators under the AF were adjusted to reflect some
of the changes in terms of geographical areas where project interventions were conducted
and correct some of the over estimation of the indicators of the AF.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
At preparation a number of aspects were reviewed at project preparation related to the
Operational Policies (OPs) that would need triggering in part due to the uncertainties
related to the potential need for temporary relocation of some residents OP4.12 during
works. Ultimately only OP4.0 and OP7.50 were triggered when the project went to the
Board in June 2005. OP7.50 was addressed by notification of riparians by the Bank on
behalf of Serbia. Serbia obtained no objections to the plans from both Bulgaria and
Romania where the Danube flows into the Black Sea. OP4.12 was not triggered as land
along canals and dykes were clearly delineated as government owned and if any
settlements were found, the project would simply not undertake any works.



3
  Serbia conducts a census every 10 years. Over the census period of 2002 to 2011, Serbia has lost over 4%
of its overall population. In addition towns that were home of the former agrokombinats, or other heavy
industry that collapsed after market reforms led to an accelerated rural exodus towards the larger cities.
While rural Serbia depopulated, cities such a Novi Sad and Belgrade both grew in spite of the overall drop
of the national population.



                                                   12
Other environmental concerns under the project were addressed as part of an
Environmental Assessment (EA) for the schemes that would benefit from improved
drainage and flood protection, while an Environmental Framework was prepared for the
irrigation schemes as precise location and types of works were not known at the time of
project preparation. An EA or Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was then
prepared for each site where construction took place and mitigating measures integrated
as part of bidding document and contracting arrangements. Measures of the EMP were
included in bidding documentation and supervising engineers were required to ensure
contractors implemented the plans. Bank supervision and reviews would confirm proper
implementation.

A social assessment was prepared for the project after consultation with the various
municipalities and settlements including representatives of civil society. Further surveys
were then conducted collecting opinions of the affected population. These surveys
provided a generally positive opinion on the intended works and positive feedback from
the local population. Field visits and discussion with some of the beneficiaries confirm
that the project did adequately consult with locals and amended designs where possible to
take into accounts the comments and suggestion provided by the communities where the
infrastructure has been built.

No serious safeguards issues arose during implementation, this may also be in part due to
the fact that the Task Team Leader (TTL) for the better part of the duration of the project
was a civil engineer with experience in managing works contracts, and also a safeguards
specialist well familiar with safeguards techniques and providing “real time” support to
counterparts whenever safeguards questions arose.

Fiduciary - Financial management arrangements were satisfactory or moderately
satisfactory throughout project implementation period. Acceptable software was used for
project accounting and financial reporting. Interim financial reports (IFRs) were
submitted on time to the World Bank and were assessed to be reliable. Annual financial
statements were audited by eligible auditors and the audit reports were submitted on time
in most cases. Similarly, procurement performance of the project was satisfactory for
most of the time. During the last two years, the performance was rated highly satisfactory,
making it one of the best projects in Serbia portfolio (in reference to quality of
procurement and contract management process).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The project supported the new water framework law that was finally adopted in 2010
more than five years after it had been drafted already at project inception. There was
considerable debate around this piece of legislation to which the project provided
advisory input that would define the institutional arrangements and structures responsible
for water management in the country including the mechanisms to mobilize the resources
for the overall O&M of the systems. Unfortunately, as part of the political process a
number of provisions were modified, diluting the original intent of the legislation to align
Serbian legislation with the EU WFD which defines mandates for securing water quality
and quantity as well as requirement for water control infrastructure such as flood



                                            13
protection. The effect of some of the modifications to the draft law weakened the
institutional mandates defined in the law including the required budgeting and long term
financial commitment to the sector. This was cruelly brought to light in the most recent
floods in May 2014 where the institutions responsible for water management found
themselves unable to adequately coordinate management and controls over the systems to
minimize the flooding. While the infrastructure built under the project has withstood the
onslaught of floods, resulting in limited flooding in the project areas, better coordination
and clearer mandates could have provided for better O&M and lightened the failure of
infrastructure that has not benefitted from rehabilitation works and massive damages
occurred.

Flood protection is an expensive undertaking not only at the time of construction, but
throughout its lifetime. The Netherlands, an example often cited for both high flood risks
and good flood protection management, expenditures amount to roughly US$160.00 per
capita per year for flood defenses alone. In Serbia, a similar level of funding for flood
protection would mean mobilizing over US$1.50 billion each year. Serbia is at lesser risk
than Holland, with less complex engineering challenges, but regular budget resources are
needed to keep this infrastructure in a functional state. The current budgetary challenges
the country faces make it impossible to cover all critical public investment needs which
leaves the flood protection sector chronically underfunded in O&M.

In essence, while the framework water law provides a blue print towards a functional
system, the political interests affecting the institutions on the ground to secure adequate
O&M resources for flood infrastructure has changed relatively little from project
inception. Budget allocations remain mostly based on political variables and short term
priorities rather than on a strategic approach thus undermining the assigned institutional
mandates in flood protection and the funding of these mandates.

For irrigation given that the investment supports largely existing private enterprise in
agriculture and the fact that the project took a highly pragmatic approach by supporting
improvements in line with farmer demands including own contributions based on
ongoing farming practices, the chances for success are quite good. The systems allow for
minimal issues due to the simplicity and the ease of controlling access from farmers who
do not pay for their consumption of power or water. Metering of both power and water
makes for very transparent billing to farmers and avoid conflicts over use or perceptions
of unfairness. Such perceptions are often leading to disputes and distrust which typically
handicap user groups such as WUAs. As such the irrigation investments under this
component have good prospects for sustainability.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The drainage and flood protection infrastructure constructed under the project offers
broad based benefits across all segments of the population and income levels. As such the
project clearly supports the Bank objectives of alleviating poverty and shared prosperity.


                                                14
Serbia is an upper middle income country with relatively shallow but fairly widespread
poverty especially in remote rural areas and towns where the local industry has collapsed.
The irrigation component in particular was to support areas where farms are smaller and
the subsidy policy pursued by government based on single area payments has had only
moderate effect on boosting farmer incomes. Serbia’s present Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) or the FY12-FY15 Serbia Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
emphasizes strengthening competitiveness while simultaneously supporting the
efficiency and outcomes of social spending. The project through its support of the water
framework law to help define clear institutional and financing responsibilities supports
the overall CAS objective for sustainable budgeting of public resources. The regulations
for more direct involvement of water users in water management at farm level has the
potential to contribute to overall efficiency and optimizing budget resources.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project PDO had four major objectives as defined in the PAD results framework to
be addressed with activities under 3 components.

Objective (i) the increased crop production as a result of improved drainage and flood
protection is estimated at some 25%. This figure is a compound of two factors,
representing increases in yields due to better conditions at planting time reducing soil
damage (plow pan) from machine operation in extremely wet conditions but also a
reduction in production costs due to fewer losses from stagnant water in fields and less
need for reseeding while other agronomic factors for the various crops have remained
relatively constant. The improved water management allows for longer cropping seasons
and higher cropping intensity without periods of fallow lands due extreme wetness in
spring. This indicator is the most important outcome of the project as it defines the
achievement of its economic outcome. The outcome against the first objective, which is
improve the capacity for increased agricultural yields through support to high priority
rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation infrastructure, has been exceeded even after
adjusting the indicator upwards at restructuring in May 2013 justifying a Highly
Satisfactory rating for this outcome.

(ii) to increase area protected against flooding has been substantially achieved. The
overall area to be protected from floods under the original project was 56,340 ha, the AF
was to increase this to a total of 500,000ha. The final figure achieved, amounted to some
440,086 ha composed of residential and agrarian land are now effectively protected from
floods after completion of works. Yet the volume of works delivered under the
intermediary target length of levies construction to 1:100 level reached 136 km against
125 km originally envisaged. The land areas in the northeast of the country where much
of the works were performed were largely spared form the disaster thanks to the works
performed under the project. The quality of the works has also been tested by the recent
floods that were in some estimations as high as 1:250 years in some areas, the fact that no
failures were noted speaks for the build quality of the works performed. Given the fact
that the area protected, is nearly 90% achieved and that the length of dykes built is
some 8% higher than envisaged at design the outcomes relative to this objective is rated
Satisfactory.



                                            15
(iii) reduced number of population under flood risk. The population to be protected
from floods at appraisal amounted to some 250,000 people, with AF that figure was
increased to 1.8 million people. When the project was finally restructured in 2013 that
target figure was lowered to 1.1 million people protected. There are legitimate reasons for
the shortfall in the area protected and number of people protected. One relates to the fact
that the project starting in 2009 contracts were fully financed from IBRD without
counterpart contribution to works contracts. That decision reduced the overall financing
envelope of the project, albeit it did not really affect the length of dykes rehabilitated.
The second reason relates to the changes in some of the sites selected for rehabilitation.
In part as a result of the 2006 floods, Serbia has been working on rebuilding/
strengthening its flood defenses around urban areas with its own resources but also from
credits from European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and other
donors. As a consequence some sites under this project (AF) were reprioritized to other
locations which led to the discrepancy in the original indicators, which is why in 2013 the
population related indicator was adjusted. Finally, the combination of an overall drop in
population in the country along with a rural exodus as a result of the restructuring of
some industrial complexes in some areas led to significant movements of population
away from rural towns to the capital. Given that the population protected adjusted for
some of these changes in locations to more rural areas and lower population density
has been met, the achievement towards this objective is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The corporate core sector indicator (iv) “area provided with irrigation and drainage
service improved” was added as an outcome indicator in May 2013. A similarly worded
intermediate indicator had been monitoring drainage works from the beginning of the
project. The outcome for this indicator has been somewhat difficult to determine for two
reasons; (i) flood protection and drainage systems are not always mutually exclusive,
there can be a number of agricultural drainage systems within a flood protection system
covering both residential/urban as well as agricultural areas. A second variable is that
with the adoption of 100% payment against works contracts with IBRD funding, the
overall envelope of the project has been reduced. The original target defined at appraisal
amounted to some 247,000 ha that would benefit from improved drainage. The final
report on works including systems designed for flood protection and drainage of
agricultural land resulting in arable land that is now safeguarded amount to
approximately 175,000ha. Systems specifically designated as agricultural drainage
infrastructure rehabilitated under the project amounted to some 105,000ha or about 42%
of the originally intended area. In part due to the poor segregation of figures between
drainage and flood protection leading to difficulties in determining actual agricultural
area benefitting from the project the achievement of this objective is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

The indicator related to “area benefitting from minor irrigation development “ was
revised and moved to intermediate results indicator at restructuring in May 2013. The
component was to focus on the areas in Central Serbia and achievement of the objective
was defined by the number of WUAs established under Minor Irrigation Development
Program (MIDP), and the number of irrigation schemes rehabilitated or constructed.
Irrigation area to be rehabilitated or constructed was to amount to 4,000 ha. While the



                                            16
project established 28 WUAs, it managed to supply infrastructure on some 1,600 ha for a
total of 7 WUAs and a total of 17 sites. All systems are small covering a few hundred
hectares of which 10 involve electrification to connect the pumps that farmers already
own supplying both sprinklers and drip irrigation systems. A total of seven schemes
involved installation of pipelines, valves and meters and pumps in some cases financed
and installed by farmers and WUAs themselves. Albeit the indicators, system areas
covered and number of systems rehabilitated/ constructed were not achieved mainly due
to the late start of these activities which is also related to late adoption of enabling
legislation, the positive feedback from farmers and their involvement in system design
and out of pocket contribution to investments provide good prospects for sustainability.
Due to the interesting and innovative approach and good prospects for sustainability,
in spite of the substantially lower area covered, achievement towards this objective is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.

A final set of indicators related to the final objective of the PDOs defined as improved
water resources management and strengthen the associated water resources
management institutions and policies, of which the achievement was to be measured by
a plethora of activities to be delivered by the project even though in the case of legislation,
these were not within the full realm of its control. It needs to be noted that the component
description already emphasized that there would not be far reaching institutional reforms
under this project. Furthermore by reducing the component financing, as well as
privatization of some services and structures, a number of activities did not make sense
anymore, and only limited institutional changes could be expected over the life of the
project. The project supported the finalization of the Water Framework Law largely in
line with EU Directives regulating water quality, flood protection and water resources
exploitation. The law was adopted with delays in 2010. However, this legislation remains
to be effectively implemented on the ground with reasonable budget allocations at all
levels to ensure the adequate O&M of the flood protection infrastructure. In spite of the
above caveat, this is a significant achievement as it defines the institutional mandates and
responsibilities towards the water sector including how resources are to be mobilized.
Under this legislation regulation for the formation of WUAs has been developed, it has
undergone a number of readings in parliament and remains to be finally adopted by the
time the project closed. The project did support investments in the hydrometerological
services with modern Doppler radar technology that helps services with monitoring
precipitations and determine water rises in river in real time. As a result, forecast
precision but also determining of flood risks create the potential for better response times
to high flows and improved management of control infrastructure. In addition, the
acquisition of the Doppler radar made some activities related to water measurement and
system modelling identified at appraisal less critical. Given the improved legal
framework, the improved capacity to forecast weather events with significant benefits
beyond water management and the acknowledgement in the PAD that the project had
only limited institutional objectives, the outcomes against the above objective are rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency




                                             17
Estimated Damage avoided from flood protection and drainage works.

The economic value of component 1 replicated the methodology and assumptions as
applied in the pad adjusted for the additional financing. It was calculated using the flood
control damage loss avoidance estimates and the value added from increased agricultural
productivity in the arable land areas that would benefit from the new infrastructure4.
Using the flood damage avoidance model for 10, 25, 50 and 100 year flood return periods
were calculated. Damage estimates were obtained for each flood return period for (i)
agriculture crops, (ii) agricultural animals, (iii) forestry land damage, (iv) damage to
roads, (v) damage to railways, (vi) damage to bridges, (vii) damage to residential
housing, (viii) damage to public buildings, (ix) damage to industrial and business centers,
(x) damage to hydro infrastructure, (xi) with-out project flood management and other
costs, and (xii) cost of without project dyke repair.5

The annual expected flood damage that would be avoided with the undertaking of the
flood control and river bank reconstruction/rehabilitation under the project with AF was
estimated to be US$ 48.00 million.

Costs - The total costs for the flood control construction and rehabilitation sub-
component are US$62.00 million including design and supervision. Annual O&M costs
are estimated to average 2.5% of the investment of dyke and control infrastructure
reconstructed or rehabilitated.

Results - An economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 36% was estimated for the flood
protection and drainage activities under the project at a net present value (NPV) of some
US$130.00 million at a discount rate of 12% over 20 years.

Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values - For the EIRR to reach 12% project costs
would have to decrease by 75%.

                     Summary of Economic Analysis for flood protection
                                                  -50%               -75%
                                Base Case       Decrease in       Decrease in
                                                 Benefits          Benefits
                                   36%             23%              12.5%



Estimated Agronomic Benefits from improved drainage & flood protection.




4
 The same methodology in the AF as in the original project’s compone nt 1 was applied.
5
 The steps to estimate damage were (1) maps were made by the Jaroslav Cerni Institute of the flood area
under each of the four flood return periods, and (2) for each flood return period, the number of hectares of
agriculture land, forest land, km of roads and railways, number of bridges etc. were counted and given an
estimate of their replacement value if lost or the cost of rehabilitation.


                                                     18
To get a sense of the benefits, however, the project did commission a survey in its last
year of operation which points to an increase of some 25% in productivity of the land
within the rehabilitated territory composed of 11% yield increases and reduced
production costs of some 15 to 20%.

Costs - The investments benefitting mainly agriculture and forestry were assumed to cost
a third of what they are expected to cost for flood protection of residential/urban/
industrial areas. So while rural areas consist of 80% of the project area, the cost of
investments benefitting rural areas exclusively was estimated to be of some 35.00
million. No estimates were made for benefits accruing on non-arable land such as forests
or meadows representing 40% of the project area. While investments benefitting arable
land would amount to some US$25.00 million plus 2.0% of O&M costs.

Results - Assuming a conservative average net income per ha of some US$250.00 across
the various crops grown in the region with 25% productivity improvement equating
US$62.5/ha, the benefits amount to roughly US$9.5million in additional agricultural
output from the 175,000 ha of arable agricultural land in the project area per year. This is
equivalent to a NPV of some US$28.1 million and an IRR of some 36% at a discount rate
of 12% over 20 years.

Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values - For the EIRR to drop to 12%, project
benefits would have to decrease by over 50%, at 75% decrease in benefits, agronomic
EIRR shrinks to an unsustainable 2.0%

               Summary of Economic Analysis for Agronomic benefits
                                           -50%          -75%
                           Base Case    Decrease in    Decrease in
                                         Benefits       Benefits
                            36.00%        15.5%          2.0%



Component 2: Minor Irrigation Development Program

The project invested some US$ 2.20 million to support the Minor Irrigation Development
Program, while the original estimated cost of this component was US$ 6 million with no
change by the AF. A condition for participation by WUAs was that at least 10% of
investment costs had to be contributed by the farmers pushing investments to US$2.40
million. Several minor irrigation schemes were developed covering a total of some 1,600
ha of fairly productive land cultivated mostly with higher value horticulture, orchard and
commercial field crops. The cost of the investment per ha amounts to some
US$1,350.00/ha which covers both, full systems with piping and hydrants for which the
farmers need to buy their own sprinklers or drip irrigation systems, and systems where
electrification was provided. In more than half of the WUAs formed, farmers were
already irrigating using their own motor pumps and piping and sprinklers or dripping
hose. The motivation to participate by farmers nonetheless was the cost of fuel and the
prospects to switch from gasoline or diesel powered pumps to electrical power. This


                                            19
would reduce pumping costs by 75%. Part of the program’s intent as envisaged in the
PAD already was to establish a few well-functioning pilots to drive demand for further
investments or develop a support measure as part of the Ministry’s rural development
program with Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance in rural Development (IPARD)
funding.

The investments under this component were significantly delayed and only two of the
sites identified at appraisal participated in the program. The other sites only had the
infrastructure finally installed as of end of 2013. That means that the cropping patterns
and main elements of the economic benefits cannot be verified and since significant areas
are already irrigated, the major economic benefits will be reduced pumping costs.

The project expected yield increases between 28% and 130% which appears highly
optimistic given that most areas were irrigated in a rudimentary fashion already before
investment. The pilot sites were to amount to a total of 570ha at a cost of some US$2.5
million or roughly US$4,372 per ha. In spite of these high costs an average EIRR of
some 25% was expected. The project developed an area three times larger with 10% less
costs. The Sensitivity analysis indicated that the EIRR is relatively sensitive to the
project yields of irrigated crops and input costs. The lower per Hectare investments made
under the project have better prospects for sustainability than the original design under
the project.

Fiscal Analysis
The implementation completion and results report (ICR) did not undertake a fiscal
analysis as the reforms re-established publicly financed Water Boards and increased
expenditures in the water sector to ensure adequate maintenance and operation of the
extensive water management infrastructure in the country.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall satisfactory rating for the project lies in the fact that it substantially achieved
to deliver the main objectives defined in the PDO. While the quantitative objectives were
not always fully reached, they were missed by negligible amounts or were due to
implementation decisions related to changed priorities for locations that were made
keeping in mind other activities in the sector funded from other sources and demographic
changes. Better care should have been given in determining the key output indicator at
the time of developing the AF. The lack of reasonably precise numbers for people served
and area covered makes this project fall short on delivering its outputs even if outcomes
were substantially met. The combination of largely meeting the three key objectives of
the PDO and economic rates of return make the outcomes from the project Moderately
Satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
The Minor irrigation development activities were started very late and faced significant
challenges in getting farmers to contribute their share to the works that were to take place.
Eventually, the PIT adopted a more flexible interpretation by organizing farmers by


                                              20
communities in some cases splitting the systems off where boundaries such as road or
other obstacles existed and creating ownership within communities more directly. This
was necessary to reflect the fact that a number of farmers already operated their own
private irrigation systems drawing water form drainage canals or from boreholes. The
project rightly filled existing gaps rather than forcing the adoption of a new system that
would need to rely on more cooperation between farmers. The areas equipped also show
considerable differences in irrigation methods applied, commercial field crops are
irrigated by mobile sprinkler units, high value horticulture on much smaller fields is
irrigated by drip or weeping hose, while orchards and wineyards seem mostly equipped
with dripping systems. The electric as well as water meters ensure farmers pay in relation
to water volumes used. Working closely with the communities and farmers in defining
the type of support was time consuming but also ensured the appropriate technology was
applied that is in demand by farmers. These systems reflect mainly current local practices
where many farmers are already practicing rudimentary irrigation. The flexibility of
layout and type of field application offer better sustainability prospects than systems that
may well follow an engineering ideal but force the user to adapt to them. This model of
minor irrigation and drainage development offers a great platform from which a minor
and irrigation and drainage development program for supplemental irrigation could be
funded from IPARD grants for WUAs, or other donor funded programs in central Serbia.

A major aspect that the project already hedged against at design is the fact that in spite of
a water strategy and a water framework law, Serbia remains unable to clearly enforce
mandates and raise and allocate resources towards securing O&M in the flood protection
subsector. Serbia has large areas of low lying lands and major water streams crossing its
territory leaving it prone to floods for a variety of reasons. Massive investments have
been made over the centuries to build an impressive network of drainage and flood
protection infrastructure. This infrastructure carries huge benefits for the country year
after year but requires a minimum of O&M resources to remain functional and serve its
intended purpose. The risks of flooding are likely to grow with the higher variability in
climate and more intense periods of rainfalls contrasted with periods of drought. The
economic transition has brought many changes, broken many institutional links between
many players in the economy forcing funding streams to be redesigned to ensure that this
infrastructure continues to serve the development of the Serbian economy and its
citizenry.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
No specific gender or poverty segregated data was collected due to the inherently
equitable nature of activities improving flood protection. Component 2 did focus its
activities in areas where farmers were smaller and poorer. No gender specific
disaggregation was conducted under the project since the benefits of the project accrues
equally across gender.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project supported the drafting of the Water Framework Law largely in line with EU
Directives regulating water quality, flood protection and exploitation. This legislation
defines the institutional mandates and responsibilities towards the water sector including
how and from where resources are to be mobilized. The new legislation reflects a


                                             21
decentralization of some of the drainage responsibilities to the areas that have the greatest
benefit of this infrastructure. Drainage Boards that had been disbanded as part of the
privatization drive were reconstituted to include user representatives from the agricultural,
municipal and local government, as well as national level to help with determining
service prioritization. As previously reflected, while the legal environment is now
substantially functional, its application, and the financial resources for the sector to be
contributed from various governmental levels remain to be effectively implemented and
enforced.

The Project also focused on involving users more in managing water for agricultural
purposes. The development of the WUA related legislation, establishing a new model for
the farmer’s involvement and management of the small-scale irrigation developments
provides the basis for local municipalities and water companies and farmers to organize
themselves more effectively to tackle local water management needs. The Ministry of
Agriculture could seize on the pilot developed under the project to design a measure
under which smaller farmers could apply for funding of small scale privately run
irrigation systems.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The beneficiary survey was held at the end of 2011before the project was extended and
with a number of works still incomplete, and it primarily focused on the benefits
stemming from improved drainage and flood control works. Nonetheless the survey
provides a useful insight into the perspective of the public relative to the benefits
stemming from the overwhelming part of project investments. There was only moderate
awareness of the rehabilitation works of water control structures under Irrigation and
Drainage Rehabilitation Project (IDRP). It would appear that insufficient public
information has been conducted prior, during and after the works have been carried out
inside local communities. Partial explanation of this fact is that the flood protection and
drainage infrastructure is rarely noticed by the public - except for when it fails.

There were the typical challenges related to determining the income of beneficiary
households which made income comparison before and after the works impossible. While
an increase in production per ha could be observed in areas protected, clear information
on incomes increase could not be obtained.

The survey included questions to get the beneficiaries perception of risks BEFORE and
AFTER the water regulation works were completed. The greatest risk has been found in
relation to agricultural production notably the cultivation of vegetables, grains, fruit and
vineyard production, as well as for industrial and cattle feed crops, but also the risk of
water contamination. The second group of risks were linked to dwelling including
equipment, food and provisions, as well as production objects and mechanisation. The
third risk category related to the risks for people and cattle that were already lowest.



                                             22
A beneficiary opinion survey was also conducted from beneficiaries related to O&M and
to avoid damaging rehabilitated structures, willingness to help maintain structures and
finally using structures for small scale irrigation. There are significant differences
between answers coming from agricultural and non-agricultural households to these
questions. Interviewees from non-agricultural households are more critical in the
assessment of occurrence of damage to water regulation objects while this opinion is
rarely expressed by agricultural households.

Overall respondents are satisfied with project’s outcomes, recognizing many benefits
associated with it. Many pointed out successful works’ implementation and extended
benefits in regard to the cleaning of the channels and flood protection interventions.
However, some questions were raised concerning further O&M, which, in a due course,
could reduce the effects and investments. There was a significant decrease of
dissatisfaction and high increase in satisfaction from beneficiaries. Half of the citizens
claim to be satisfied, compared to a quarter before the project was implemented. Details
of the survey are in annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
When the project was prepared, Serbia had just emerged from economic sanctions and
isolation. As such it was a late starter to adopt economic reforms towards market
liberalization. Since then the country has progressed significantly, its institutions have
been reformed, its economy substantially privatized with GDP per capita in nominal
terms nearly doubling to US$6,200 over the period of project implementation. The
financial crisis has brought some budgetary worries with debt to GDP ratio rising to 63%.
Serbia’s acceptance as an EU candidate country gives it access to substantial Instrument
for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) funding to help the reform process along for
accession which alleviates some of these concerns in the agricultural sector. The water
framework law adopted with support of the project provides the basis for a functional
institutional basis in the water sector. Financial resources do remain tight due to limited
budgets and a more decentralized way of financing water infrastructure in Serbia, the
risks to O&M of the rehabilitated infrastructure remain significant. The reason for this is
that the political and institutional commitment made in the law including the long term
financing of the O&M expenditure of this infrastructure and application of the water law
needs to be effectively implemented on the ground. This situation leaves a number of
uncertainties as to the longer terms O&M and sustainability of the investments. The
recent heavy floods have illustrated the need for functioning flood control infrastructure
and the request to the Bank for support as part of the emergency flood recovery project
for flood protection in the western part of the country along the Drina and Morava
illustrate the need for continued investments.

On irrigation development activities, the project took a very pragmatic approach avoiding
overly heavy investments by rather providing support to leverage the investments farmers
have already undertaken on their own. The model developed under this project could be
modified to become an IPARD measure for which demand would be driven by farmers




                                            23
thus ensuring good prospects for sustainability. The sustainability risks to this model are
considered quite modest.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Project preparation was launched upon request from the Serbian authorities for support in
the sector. The preparation team was composed of a seasoned Irrigation Engineer and an
Operations Officer with extensive irrigation experience. The technical specialists were
supported by a broad based team including safeguards and fiduciary specialists. There
was a lack of clarity as to whether the project’s primary focus was to be on irrigation and
drainage or flood protection without clear separation of the two types of infrastructure.
This is understandable as in the case of Serbia these systems are not always perfectly
segregated. However, that lack of clarity lead to some confusion in the design of the
results framework and data collection to clearly illustrate the benefits of the project and to
whom they would accrue. The results framework reflects mostly engineering works
related outcomes, while the PAD has a heavy agrarian bias. With AF the project
effectively became a flood protection project that would improve agronomic
characteristics and reduce flooding to residential/industrial and commercial areas.

The AF was prepared in response to a crisis and as such reflected a positive
responsiveness by the Bank to the needs of the country. The processing of the AF
document however reflects inadequate attention to detail with a lack clear allocation of
funding by components and lack of precision in determining baselines and expected
outputs from investments which ultimately weigh on the assessment of outcomes.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Project supervision was regular and the team had significant continuity, with at least one
team member following the project from its inception to its end. The project supervision
was decentralized to the country office which provided for regular input and continuous
support and trouble-shooting by the TTL. The supervision team included experienced
technical specialists with relevant expertise and issues identified were addressed with
adequate follow on. Aide memoires provided reporting on technical issues, as well as
fiduciary and safeguards issues. The TTL’s experience in civil engineering and in
environmental safeguards provided the necessary knowledge also to ensure that design
included environmental impact assessments of each site in line with national legislation
and Bank requirements. The recovery of the project from initially very poor progress and
low disbursements towards near fully delivered activities with objectives substantially
met in part due to realignment of project indicators with project activities provide for a
Satisfactory rating of the Bank’s performance to Implementation Support and
Supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                             24
While overall project implementation support from the Bank was adequate, project
preparation was lacking clarity in terms of priorities to support the agricultural sector or
flood protection which would provide benefits well beyond agriculture. AF made it very
clear as to what the project priorities were. The figures for areas served including
population numbers in the results framework were not defined carefully enough with the
estimate for people to be served particularly overestimated. The restructuring of the
project to realign some of the quantitative indicators with activities and prioritization of
works sites to correct some of these discrepancies very late in the project provide for an
overall Moderately Satisfactory rating for the Bank’s performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The Ministry of Agriculture in Serbia has been suffering from a lack of continuity in
policy and top level personnel. Over half a dozen Ministers of Agriculture were
appointed during the course of project implementation. This constituted a particular
challenge related to adopting the water framework law and subsequent WUA legislation.
In part due to the lack of continuity readings of draft legislation lacked a uniform vision
and changes needed to be made with the entry of every new administration. The different
political allegiances and conflicting interests within the public agencies towards reforms
made reaching agreement difficult and were disrupted whenever top level officials were
changed. This lack of agreed vision contributed significantly to the delays with adopting
the Water Framework Law as well as in finalizing the WUA regulations. In defense of
the Ministry, it clearly understood its weaknesses and devolved project management to a
PIT that was staffed with well-regarded higher level sector specialists that benefited from
the trust from the various local administrations and managed to implement the project in
spite of the lack of continuity at the Ministerial level.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government established PIT with separate offices in the outskirts of Belgrade to
facilitate field visits and reduce time spent in traffic. The PIT was headed by an
experienced engineer drawn from the DoW well known within the Ministry and
administration and with adequate authority to make decisions. While getting the PIT
staffed and located took time once it was in place, it provided for a solid base for
managing fiduciary and contract management as well as technical issues. The PIT
provided for transparent contract administration, effective technical know-how and
ensured fiduciary compliance. It was staffed with engineers who had international
experience implementing international projects with a good knowledge of international
building standards and management of projects and involvement of the beneficiary
community in design definition and accommodating residents. Albeit starting slowly,
once the PIT was fully staffed and developed its process of pipeline development, it very
successfully handled numerous works sites and contracts with proper attention to build
quality and local concerns. The flip side is that the independence of the PIT also
undermined the capacity for the Ministry and DoW to benefit from any significant
knowledge transfer such as developing schedules for works, procurement and contract
management including ensuring quality assurance and holding contractors accountable.


                                             25
The lack of capacity transfer, especially after the full dissolution of the PIT weighs on the
overall project performance. Consequently only a Satisfactory rating of the PIT can be
given in spite of its effectiveness at managing the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall the Borrower was committed to the project and engaged in fairly complex
reforms in spite of a lack of continuity at the Ministry of Agriculture. While there was
resistance to some of the proposed reforms leading to a long drawn out process in
approving the water framework law, passage of such legislation that reassigns mandates
and responsibilities always takes some time. The WUA regulations remain to be finally
adopted which is necessary to improve the coordination of drainage efforts in Voivodina
and the country overall. A WUA law would also help with better organizing irrigation,
which at present is mainly driven by the farm’s own initiative largely with his own
resources and equipment. With possibly longer dry spells in summer as a result of climate
change, the coordination and organization of abstraction of water from drainage ditches
and ground water will be necessary to avoid possible conflicts. The strong leadership of
the PIT was able to partially fill for the vision gap at the Ministry, but with its
disappearance that vision is gone as well. Consequently, overall borrower performance
can only be rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

       Making project support or components dependent on the adoption of certain
legislation presents distinct timing risks. The formulation or amendment of laws is a
political process where the Bank can only have a limited influence and will essentially be
governed by local politics. This is true even when the government recognizes the need for
legal amendments, but reforms might be opposed by a number of interest groups that rely
on the status quo to maintain their position.

        A project implementation unit (PIU) with substantial decision making power
helps project implementation when the responsible Ministry is challenged due to
frequent changes at the top. Unfortunately at its dissolution much of the institutional
capacity of the PIU is lost to the Ministry at large, and while a relatively successful
project may have been implemented, overall impact on the institutional system remains
limited. The lack of an agreed vision in the sector reforms especially as it relates to the
institutional mandates and organizational structure led to organized resistance to reforms.

       Countries that have reasonably functional land use and cadaster maps as well
as building regulations and permit requirement need significant amounts of time and
coordination efforts to get permits and documentation approved and verified by the
competent authorities before works can commence. Realistic time estimates are needed
to fully develop design documents and obtain related permits which are prerequisite to
smooth project implementation.




                                             26
        Project implementation needs to be flexible to maximize project impacts. The
flexibility in approach to accommodate parallel financing on site selection and
responding to farmers needs based on current activities with electrification rather than
strictly pushing the project design helps in achieving concrete on the ground results.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The government of Serbia had no comments to offer on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component with AF (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                                     Appraisal
                                                       millions)

Drainage & Flood Protection                  56.65                 60.25              106.35
Minor Irrigation                              4.75                  2.15              50.60
Institutional Strengthening                   5.60                  2.00              35.70
Project Management                            2.20                  2.40              19.00
              Total Baseline Cost            69.20                 66.80


Physical Contingencies
                                               1.90                 0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               3.90                 0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                  0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                  0.00                0.00
     Total Financing Required                75.00                 71.25               95.00




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate    Estimate    %age of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD       (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              19.47           3.50       18.00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       50.00               46.55          93.10
and Development
 International Development
                                                       25.00               24.70          98.80
Association (IDA)
 Local Farmer Organizations                            0.73                0.23           31.50
Note: At project closing some US$0.87 in IDA and 3.65 in IBRD resources were cancelled. The project
was financed from IDA in SDRs and IBRD in Euro denomination leading to some variations in US$ due to
the changing exchange rates relative to the US dollar over the life of the project.




                                                28
      Annex 2. Outputs by Component

      Component 1 - The Ministry's activities related to this component were coordinated with the two
      public water authorities "Srbija Waters" and "Vojvodina Waters". Although rather uncoordinated
      at the beginning, and based more on the "first come-first served" approach, following the mid-
      term review of the project activities, the subsequent implementation of the flood defense related
      civil works were organized through coordinated pipeline of high priority investments, that were
      implemented using the World Bank finance, and supervised by both the Ministry and the public
      water authorities. The civil works activities were at times heavily impacted by unfavorable
      hydrological regimes on the major rivers, which rendered respective works suspended for
      prolonged periods of time. Due to this situation the project was extended twice, for a total period
      of 34 months. The project successfully completed activities on 43 flood control and drainage
      rehabilitation schemes with a value in contracts amounting to little over US$62.00 million
      depending on exchange rates used, covering over 440 thousands ha in the areas with the
      infrastructure (over 20% of the country's most productive agricultural land), and affecting around
      1.1 million people that live in the flood prone areas (which represents over 15% of the country's
      population).

      Table 1 – Completed Works Contracts (Status as of March 31, 2014)


                                                         Contract    Contract    Works       Works
N
               Scheme and Water Authority                 Value        date      started   completed        Comment
o.
                                                        (mil. RSD)   (mm/yy)    (mm/yy)     (mm/yy)

     Rehabilitation of drainage system -
1                                                           6.43      08/06      10/06        02/07
     Bavanistanski canal – VV

     Rehabilitation of drainage system -
2                                                           26.22     08/06      10/06        07/07
     Novoknezevacki canal- VV
     Rehabilitation of flood protection levees in
     "Zapadna Backa" sector (left bank of Danube
3                                                           10.42     04/08      05/08        08/08
     river) at km 37+300 - km 37+380, km 39+550 -
     km 39+650 and km 56+780 - km 56+840 - VV
     Rehabilitation of Danube left bank stone
4    revetment in "Zapadna Backa" sector between            19.43     04/08      05/08        09/08
     km 1431+060 and km 1430+740 – VV

5    Rehabilitation of drainage system - COK – SV           34.62     03/07      06/07        05/09

     Reconstruction of pump station “Novi Knezevac“
6                                                           7.92      07/08      07/08        10/08
     – VV

7    Rehabilitation of drainage system "Plavna" – VV        82.82     06/08      07/08        01/10

     Reconstruction of already regulated Jasenica
8    river and dyke from km 0+000 to km 10 +235             69.95     08/08      09/08        05/09
     (Velika plana district) – SV

     Rehabilitation of Danube’s bank Mladenovo
9                                                           2.53      07/08      09/08        11/08
     from km 39+450 to km 39+750 – VV




                                                       29
     Rehabilitation of Danube’s left bank from
10   km1401 +400 to                                            25.40    07/08   10/08   10/09
     km1401 + 479 – VV
     Rehabilitation of the Tovarnik canal- main canal
11                                                             33.20    02/09   04/09   04/10
     – VV
     Rehabilitation of the Tovarnik canal- secondary
12                                                              6.16    02/09   04/09   08/09
     canal – VV
     Rehabilitation of drainage system Plavna –
13                                                             19.68    02/09   04/09   01/10
     secondary canal – VV
     Rehabilitation of the gates Berava, Brzava and
14                                                              3.69    02/09   04/09   07/09
     Karasica, Plavna canal - VV
     Rehabilitation of the groyn on the left bank on
15                                                             19.01    02/09   04/09   10/09
     the Danube river by Glozan - VV
     Reconstruction of concrid bridge over the main
16                                                              9.37    02/09   04/09   05/09
     canal Plavna system - VV

17   Rehabilitation of canal Kupusina - VV                     12.35    11/08   08/09   08/10
     Construction of flood protection and control
     system in the river basin of the Kolubara river
18                                                         244.591      09/10   10/10   09/12
     tributary-the Tamnava river from km 13+700 to
     km 19+364 -SV
     Protection of the Sava River littoral area
     “Macva” – Reconstruction of the Sava River
19                                                         239.492      09/10   10/10   09/12
     right-bank levies from km 8+560 to km 18+029-
     SV

     Regulatory works on the Mlava River (from km
     5+470 to km 8+649) and its tributary - the
20                                                         182.670      09/10   10/10   06/12
     Grabovacki creek from km 0+000 to km 0+741
     -SV
     Drina river and tributaries Flood Protection
     Areas: Rehabilitation of the Flood Protection
     System for municipalities and agriculture
     complex near Jadar river:(Protected Area "Drina
21                                                             112.00   01/10   02/10   12/10
     – Gornji Dobric"): reconstruction of already
     regulated Jadar river and dike – Phase 1.: km
     2+610 (Jelava bridge) to km 8+393 (railway
     bridge) -SV
     Reconstruction of the concrete bridge over the
     river Plazovic/Construction of the bridges over
22                                                             31.75    05/10   07/10   09/10
     Jegricka reka, drainage system Lanka-Birda,
     drainage system Kaveraca and Plazovic-VV
     Rehabilitation of riverbank protective work on
     the left side of riverbed Danube in Apatin, on the
23                                                             42.208   05/10   06/10   09/11
     sections from rkm 1401+479 to rkm 1401+624
     and from rkm 1401+624 to rkm 1401+770 -VV
     Supply of mobile equipment for flood protection
24                                                             185.00   06/10   06/10   10/10
     for the city of Novi Sad-VV




                                                          30
     Construction of the flood protection system of
     the River Zapadna Morava and its tributaries -
     Protection Area Guca Regulation of the Bjelica
     River through Guca from km 1+043 to km
25                                                        167.999      09/10   10/10   11/11
     2+357, including works on securing of the
     channel flow capacity at the downstreem (km
     0+000 to km 1+043) and upstream (km 2+357
     to km3+489) sections -SV
     Construction of the Juzna Morava river and
     tributaries defense systems: (Flood protection
26                                                            101.2    01/10   02/10   02/11
     area “Nis”)-regulation of the Gabrova river from
     km 0+000 to km 1+660-SV

     Works on reinforcement of the levies of the right
27   bank of the Begej canal on the section from km       139.745      09/10   10/10   11/11
     0+000 to km 8+850

     Construction of the protective levies of the
     Mlava river within the section from km 0+000 to
     km 3+154 and construction of the system for
28                                                        116.614      09/10   10/10   10/11
     protection of the lower settlements parts from
     ground and surface waters - Protection area
     Stari Kostolac-SV
     Protection of Ub Settlement from the Ubaca
     River High Waters – works on reconstruction of
     regulated river channel via the settlement (km
29   9+600 - km 11+300) including securing of the         391.370      06/11   06/11   05/13
     flow capacity at the downstream (km 8+600 -
     km 9+600) and upstream section (km 11+300 -
     12+300) -SV
     Works on reinforcement and super-elevation of
30   the levies at the Tisa River left bank on the        676.920      05/11   10/11   03/14
     section from km 10+400 to km 28+546-VV
     Rehabilitation of the traffic route along the
     crown on the left bank of the Tisa levee from the
31                                                            57.435   11/10   04/11   12/11
     bridge in Zabalj to Babatovo (km 37+288 to km
     43+403)-VV

     Construction of storage facility for mobile
32                                                            87.958   12/10   02/11   10/11
     equipment for flood protection-VV

     Rehabilitation of main dranage system Kikinda-
33                                                        109.338      02/11   04/11   10/11
     VV

     Rehabilitation of drainage systems, the main
34   drainage canals and the secondary network,               76.152   02/11   04/11   04/12
     Godominska area, Smederevo-SV
     Rehabilitation of the main drainage canal K and
35   secondary network Negotin depression,                    62.552   06/11   07/11   06/12
     Negotin-SV




                                                         31
     Regulation of the Vrnjacka reka river,
     reconstruction of the structures within the
     already regulated river bed through Vrnjacka
     Banja from km 2+ 744,80 do km 3+615,20 and
36                                                        152.122      05/11       06/11        08/12
     ensuring of channel flow capacity on the
     upstream (km 0+544,00 – km 2+744,80) and
     downstream (km 3+615 do km 5+916,80)
     sections-SV

     Rehabilitation of drainage system Cerski obodni
37                                                            32.643   04/11       06/11        01/12
     kanal- COK secondary network – SV
     Construction of pump of sewage pump station
38                                                        132.359      11/11       12/11        10/13
     "Glavna" in Sabac
     Protection of the right side levies of the Sava
39   River on location of sewage pump station             132.673      08/11       09/11        09/12
     "Glavna" in Sabac

     Works on rehabilitation of the bank revetment
     on critical spots at the Tisa River right bank on
40                                                        321.082      12/11       01/12        05/13
     section I (from km 36+360 to km 35+530) and
     section II (from km 34+029 to km 33+349)- VV

     "Works on reconstruction of the system for
41   protection against high water level of the           458.318      03/12       04/12        06/13
     Danube River in the area "Golubac""
     Works on rehabilitation of the Bank revetment
     on critical spots of the Tisa River right bank on
42   section III (from km 25+915 to km 25+375) and        226.976      03/12       05/12        09/13
     section IV (from km 21+682 to km 21+238)


     Flood protection Macva (Sava-Drina): East
43   area: Works on reconstruction of the right side           n/a       n/a        n/a          n/a          Split lots
     of Sava River upstream from Sabac
                                                                                               05/13
                                                                                              Extended
     Lot 1
43                                                                                               to
.1
     Section I: from km 2+336 to km 6+100 (3,76           198.644      01/13       02/13
                                                                                               11/13
     km)
                                                                                              Extended
                                                                                              to 03/14
     Lot 2
43
.2
     Section II: from km 6+800 to km 8+560 (1,76          102.639      01/13       02/13        11/13
     km)
     Regulation of Pusta River from Kocanska petlja
44                                                            83.557   06/13       06/13        11/13
     to village Pukovac (km 0+000 - km 5+508)




      Component 2 - The activities under this component faced severe delays from the start of the
      Project, due to reliance on adoption of the framework water law, which was originally expected
      in 2008, but delayed year by year up to mid-2010. The lack of enabling legislation and unclear
      targets of the implementing institutions and national authorities affected the delivery of activities



                                                         32
under this National authorities changed their approach to the formation of WUAs several times,
causing further delays and despite concentrated support the activities started on the ground only
in 2012. Despite significant progress achieved in 2012 and 2013, the time already lost in 2008 to
2011 could not be recuperated, which lead to inadequate results on the ground. Altogether some
5 village benefitted (Striza, Obrez, Leskovac, Pepeljevac and Plaskovac) from project support in
establishing irrigation infrastructure over a total of 7 sites, implementing works contracts
amounting to some US$2.40 million. The Villages and respective sites were supported in the
creation of WUAs, provision of farmer's training, and completion of irrigation schemes related
civil works - while another 21 WUAS have been established. At project closing some 1,600 ha
are covered with infrastructure from investments in these schemes.


1. WUA:                           “Izvor”
Location of WUA
                    village:      Striza
              municipality:       Paracin
    geographical position of
                                  central Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:      developing

Type of pilot project:            Electrification of field for irrigation.
Pilot project data:
            Tender launched:      18. August 2012. (tender: NCB)
            Bedding opening:      24. September 2012.
            Contract number:      SRB-IDR-NCB-061-W-12-4105/YF (404-02-41/2012-07)
               Contract value:    59.058.706,14 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:     62.672.095,63 RSD
         Construction started:    13. November 2012.
     Construction completed:      01.04.2013.
Pilot project status:             Completed


2. WUA:                           “Agro Oberez”
Location of WUA
                    village:      Obrez
              municipality:       Varvarin
    geographical position of
                                  central Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:      Developing

Type of pilot project:            Electrification of field for irrigation.
Pilot project data:
            Tender launched:      19. June 2013. (tender: NCB)
            Bedding opening:      18. July 2013.
            Contract number:      SRB-IDR-NCB-0675-W-13-7467/YF (401-00-1152/2013-07)
               Contract value:    58.297.673,90 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:     60.610.149,88 RSD
         Construction started:    27. August 2013.
     Construction completed:      24. December 2013.
Pilot project status:             Completed




                                                  33
3. WUA:                           “Juzna Morava”
Location of WUA
                    village:      Donje Krajince
              municipality:       Leskovac
    geographical position of
                                  southern Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:      Undeveloped

         Type of pilot project:   Electrification of field for irrigation.
Pilot project data:
            Tender launched:      15. August 2013. (tender: NCB)
            Bedding opening:      13. September 2013.
            Contract number:      SRB-IDR-NCB-068-W-13-7467/YF (404-02-280/2013-07)
               Contract value:    20.677.568,42 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:     22.369.513,76 RSD
         Construction started:    04. November.2013.
     Construction completed:      22. March 2014.
Pilot project status:             Completed

4. WUA:                           “Eko hrana”
Location of WUA
                    village:      Gornje Krajince, Zlocudovo, Numanica
              municipality:       Leskovac
    geographical position of
                                  southern Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:      Undeveloped

         Type of pilot project:   Electrification of field for irrigation.
Pilot project data:
            Tender launched:      15. August 2013. (tender: NCB)
            Bedding opening:      13. September 2013.
            Contract number:      SRB-IDR-NCB-068-W-13-7467/YF (404-02-280/2013-07)
               Contract value:    24.988.246,88 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:     30.023.408,89 RSD
         Construction started:    04. November.2013.
     Construction completed:      22. March 2014.
Pilot project status:             Completed

5. WUA:                           “Jablanica”
Location of WUA
                    village:      Donje Krajince
              municipality:       Leskovac
    geographical position of
                                  southern Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:      Undeveloped

         Type of pilot project:   Electrification of field for irrigation.
Pilot project data:
            Tender launched:      15. August 2013. (tender: NCB)
            Bedding opening:      13. September 2013.
            Contract number:      SRB-IDR-NCB-068-W-13-7467/YF (404-02-280/2013-07)
               Contract value:    11.563.576,62 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:     13.216.446,31 RSD
         Construction started:    04. November.2013.


                                                  34
    Construction completed:        22. March 2014.
Pilot project status:              Completed


6. WUA:                            “Rodno polje”
          Location of WUA
                    village:       Pepeljevac
              municipality:        Kursumlija
    geographical position of
                                   southern Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:       Undeveloped

          Type of pilot project:   Construction reservoir and pipeline for field irrigation, supplying
                                   valves and pump.
Pilot project data:
            Tender launched:       14. November 2013. (tender: shopping)
            Bedding opening:       25. November 2013.
            Contract number:       SRB-IDR-SH-069-W-13-7467/YF (404-02-324/2013-07)
               Contract value:     5.811.435,84 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:      5.811.435,84 RSD
             Contract singed:      09. December 2013.
         Construction started:     12. December 2013.
     Construction completed:       28. February 2014.
Pilot project status:              Completed


7. WUA:                            “Zlatne kapi - Oplenac”
          Location of WUA
                    village:       Plaskovac
              municipality:        Topola
    geographical position of
                                   central Serbia
                      WUA:
    economic status of area:       Developing

          Type of pilot project:   Supplying equipment for already constructed pipeline for
                                   irrigation of orchard (frequency converter, filter for water
                                   cleaning, pump for fertilization and probe for moisture
                                   measuring in soil).
Pilot project realization
             Tender launched:      28. February 2014.
             Bedding opening:      05. March 2014.
             Contract number:      SRB-IDR-SH-070-G-14-7467-YF (404-02-92/2014-07)
                Contract value:    2.533.850 RSD
   Final payment of Contract:      2.533.850 RSD
        Installation equipment
                                   13. March 2014.
                        started:
        Installation equipment
                                   24. March 2014.
                    completed:
Pilot project status:              Completed


Component 3 - Progress under this component varied significantly throughout project
implementation, reflecting the overall level of client ownership, which changed during and after
the each of Ministry's top management changes. Initial slow start of the implementation activities,
related to lack of legal conditions under the framework water law, was later replaced by internal


                                                 35
      resistance to change in water-sector-related institutions, and at times, even lack of subordination.
      Changes in internal governmental division of responsibilities between Serbia and its Vojvodina
      Province (mandated by the Constitution) further exacerbated this situation, while privatization of
      some institutions that were expected to benefit from the Project's activities made these legally
      impossible or irrelevant. The above reasons lead to moderately satisfactory and/or unsatisfactory
      performance during the large portion of overall project duration. Due to above situation, there are
      only a few activities that were successfully completed - amongst them installation and
      commissioning of the high capacity weather radar to increase capacity of national forecasting
      service at a cost of US$1.40 million and the support to the Working Group for development of
      institutional aspects in the water sector - including water law and WUA law; and testing WUA
      type of organizations to provide institutional basis for upgrade of the irrigation sector amounting
      to some US$250,000.

      The activities related to provision of various equipment and studies for other institutions, like for
      Hydromet service (planned automatic recording stations become largely obsolete with installation
      of high-capacity radar), Vegetable Research Institute (which was privatized and changed scope of
      activities) and DTD system (unclear lines of responsibilities in respect to the Ministry) were not
      completed, and were finally dropped during the project restructuring in 2013.

                                             Estimated
                                                             Contract    Works        Works
                                              Contract
No.       Scheme and Water Authority                           date      started    completed
                                               Value                                                Comment
                                                             (mm/yy)    (mm/yy)      (mm/yy)
                                             (mil. RSD)

      Supply of a Meteorological Doppler                                                           Delivered &
       1                                       94.000         06/10      07/11         04/11
      Weather Radar System                                                                          installed

      TA assignments in support of
      regulatory and institutional support      0.200           -          -             -
      for DBs and Ministry


      TA assignments to support WUAs
                                                 6.0            -          -             -
      and minor irrigation




      Component 4 - Frequent changes of the Ministerial top management team resulted in several
      temporary slow-downs of the project implementation activities. However, day-to-day
      management of Project Implementation Team remained at the hands of the same Project
      Coordinator, which provided a degree of certainty and contributed to adequate project
      management over the largest part of the Project duration. PIT was fully staffed only in July 2009
      once works contracts were under implementation. Monitoring and evaluation activities faced
      significant delays during the early years of project implementation but improved over time. The
      resources towards PIU support in part due to project extensions and monitoring of additional
      works substantially overran the combined Project Management budget of the original and AF.




                                                        36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The Economic Analysis of the PAD broke the investments down into four distinct
categories to estimate the economic benefits of the project as follows:
     Benefits from Drainage Rehabilitation
     Benefits from Flood Protection
     Benefits from Irrigation, and
     Fiscal impact of reduced increased agricultural tax revenues and lower flood
       recovery costs on infrastructure and public buildings and lower cost of emergency
       interventions.

The AF principally went to finance component 1 Drainage and Flood Protection. The
AF did not make a difference between flood protection and drainage rehabilitation and
investment expenditures between the two activities were not segregated during project
implementation. In many ways this makes sense since these systems typically do not
function in absence of, but complement each other especially in Northern Serbia and
Voijvodina where the drainage/flood protection infrastructure serves for both, to evacuate
excess water in winter and spring while also providing the water source for irrigation
during longer dry periods in summer. Furthermore, the project did not strictly limit itself
to either flood protection or drainage works but also peripheral infrastructure such as
bridges, pump stations, sewage pumping, etc... which may not have contributed to
reduced flooding but as such provide major unquantified economic benefits.

Total AF costs including counterpart financing amounted to US$62.5 million of which
US$50.0 million where in the form of IBRD Loan the total project costs therefore where
expected to rise to US$91.2 million. The agreement to drop counterpart funding for
works that were to amount to some US$ 16.5 million and cancellations at the closure of
the project of some 3.75 million reduced the project investments effectively to US$75.00
million.

The economic analysis in the AF estimated that the damage to agricultural lands from
floods of the dimension of 2006 lead to agricultural damages estimated at some US$780
per ha for a total of US$188.00 million given the 240,000 ha that were affected. The
recent floods of May 2014 were of a higher magnitude and estimated to have caused
some US$1.3 to 1.50 billion in damage as they were combined with very heavy rainfalls
reportedly amounting to 250 mm within a period of less than one week in what is
naturally a flood prone region. However, area reportedly flooded and needing replanting
is considerably smaller than in 2006 amounting only to some 16,000ha. As maps of the
disaster area show on May 16, 2014 (see in MAP annex comparing work sites and flood
areas) the Voivodina along the Tisa, Tamis and Danube and areas of Central Serbia along
the Moravia where the majority of the works were performed have been largely spared in
part as a results of the flood protection works that were undertaken under the project.
The most affected areas were along the Drina River intersecting with the Sava and
downstream towards Belgrade where code red was declared. At the beginning of the
following week yellow alerts were also declared long the Moravia and Mlava river.


                                            37
However it must be noted, that the floods were estimated to be an over 1-100 year event
and thus near or above the design specifications of the works. However, none of the
reconstructed or rehabilitated dykes and control structures have failed.

Estimated Damage avoided from flood protection and drainage works.

The project funded construction and rehabilitation of flood control works in Vojvodina
and Central Serbia at a total cost of US$ 60.00 million. In Vojvodina, various works
were carried out over a distance of 16 km on the banks of the Danube starting from the
Hungarian border to a point between Backa Palanka and Novi Sad and the lef. Similar
works were undertaken along the Sava flowing from the East, Tamis and Tisa flowing
from the North to the Danube, and the Moravia flowing from the South to the Danube. In
Central Serbia on the Sava, the works were performed over two sections on either side of
a section of levies that were upgraded from 1:25 to 1:100 probability flood protection
from the Government’s own resources.

The main benefits from the investments were to be the averted cost of damages to
agricultural crops, livestock, residential housing, public buildings, transportation
infrastructure, and hydrological infrastructure as well as averted cost of dyke repair and
other flood management that will not be needed thanks to rehabilitation. There will be
also a risk reduction for loss of life, but this was not accounted for in the financial and
economic analysis.

Methodology - A cost benefit analysis determines the EIRR for a period of analysis of 20
years. Estimating flood risk reduction benefits is based the damage avoided approach.
the theory assumes that low flood river flows with minimal damage occur frequently
while higher river flows occur progressively infrequently with progressively higher
damage. Thus the probability of river flow level return periods can be matched with the
damage they cause. For example, a certain magnitude (value) of damage is caused by a
flood that occurs every 10 years (0.1 probability of occurrence). The river flow level
from a flood return period of 25 years (0.04 probability of occurrence) is likely to be
much higher and cause much more damage than the river flow level from a 10 year return
flood.

A loss probability curve6 was established for with /without project scenarios based on a
number of flood return periods (i.e., 10, 25, 50 and 100) and the associated damage
caused by each return period flood. Given the loss probability curve, the annual expected
value of flood damage can be calculated for each scenario. The annual expected value of
flood damage from the with-project scenario is then subtracted from the annual expected
value of flood damage of the with-out project scenario. This is the annual expected



6
  The methodology is found in: R.N. Forbes, Drainage, Flood Control and Soil Conservation Projects. In:
Cost Benefit Procedures in New Zealand Agriculture. Economics Division, Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries, New Zealand, 1977.



                                                   38
benefit (loss avoided) from undertaking the project and is used as the figure for the
benefit stream to calculate the rate of return.
Damage frequency curve.




Tangible Damage Loss Avoidance Estimates - Flood control damage loss avoidance
estimates for 10, 25, 50 and 100 year flood return periods were calculated. Damage
estimates were obtained for each flood return period for (i) agriculture crops (ii)
agricultural animals, (iii) forestry land damage, (iv) damage to roads, (v) damage to
railways, (vi) damage to bridges, (vii) damage to residential housing, (viii) damage to
public buildings, (ix) damage to industrial and business centers, (x) damage to hydro
infrastructure, (xi) with-out project flood management and other costs, and (xii) cost of
without project dyke repair.7

       Calculation of Annual Expected Flood Damage avoidance in US$ million
                                                         Flood Rehabilitation
                              Probability
                              of                   W/out Project           With Project
                              Occurrence      Damage         DC X                  DC X
                                             Cost (DC) probability         DC      prob.
                                  0.00          -1.00         0.00        0.00      0.00
                                  0.50           1.09         0.55        0.00      0.00
                                  0.30           6.56         1.97        0.00      0.00
                                  0.10         114.98        11.50        0.00      0.00
                                  0.06         396.40        15.86       28.68      0.29
                                  0.02         751.91        15.04       75.18      0.75
                                  0.01        1098.48        10.98       679.96     6.80
                                  0.01        1266.92        12.67      1266.92 12.67
                 Sum              1.00                       68.56                 20.51
                 Annual Damage
                 Avoided                                         48.0




7
  Maps were made by the Jaroslav Cerni Institute of the flood area under each of the four flood return
periods. Then, for each flood return period, the number of hectares of agriculture land, forest land, km of
roads and railways, number of bridges etc. were counted and given an estimate of their replacement value if
lost or the cost of rehabilitation.



                                                    39
The annual expected flood damage that would be avoided with the undertaking of the
flood control and bank reconstruction/rehabilitation under the project with AF was
estimated to be US$ 48.00 million.

Costs - The total costs for the flood control construction and rehabilitation sub-
component are US$62.00 million including design and supervision. Annual operation
and maintenance (O&M) costs are estimated to average 2.5% of the investment of dyke
and control infrastructure reconstructed or rehabilitated.

Results - An EIRR of 36% was estimated for the flood protection and drainage activities
under the project at a NPV of some US$130.00 million at a discount rate of 12% over 20
years.

Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values - For the EIRR to reach 12% project costs
would have to decrease by 75%.
                 Summary of Economic Analysis for flood protection
                                            -50%           -75%
                           Base Case     Decrease In    Decrease in
                                          Benefits       Benefits
                              36%           23%           12.5%

Estimated Agronomic Benefits from improved drainage & flood protection.
The project impacted some 440,000 ha of land altogether including residential and
improved (buildings and infrastructure in and to villages and to farms) and agricultural
land. Actual drainage works specifically designated as such were performed on some
105,000ha. However, due to the complexity and multi-purpose nature of the flood
protection/drainage infrastructure that is also used as an irrigation source, segregating the
benefit of each function from the system is difficult. To get a sense of the benefits,
however, the project did commission a survey in its last year of operation which points to
an increase of some 25% in productivity of the land within the rehabilitated territory
composed of 11% yield increases and reduced production costs of some 15 to 20%.

The reductions in production costs stem mainly from two factors, less replanting due to
less yearly spring/winter flooding, and lower irrigation pumping costs due to closer
proximity to water sources (drainage canals), while yield increases stem from reduced
water stress of crops due to improved water management. Assuming aggressively that
approximately 20% of the affected project area is built for residential, urban or transport
and industrial use, and another 40% is forested or uncultivated meadow area, this leaves
approximately 175,000ha of arable agricultural land benefitting from the combination of
drainage & flood protection and is within the estimates of the final project status report of
works.

Costs – The investments benefitting mainly agriculture and forestry were assumed to cost
a third of what they are expected to cost for flood protection of residential/urban/
industrial areas. So while rural areas consist of 80% of the project area, the cost of


                                             40
investments benefitting rural areas exclusively was estimated to be of some 35.00
million. No estimates were made for benefits accruing on non-arable land such as forests
or meadows representing 40% of the project area. While investments benefitting arable
land would amount to some US$25.00 million plus 2.0% of O&M costs.

Results - Assuming a conservative average net income per ha of some US$250.00 across
the various crops grown in the region with 25% productivity improvement equating
US$62.5/ha, the benefits amount to roughly US$9.5million in additional agricultural
output from the 175,000 ha of arable agricultural land in the project area per year. This is
equivalent to a Net Present Value of some US$28.1 million and an IRR of some 36% at a
discount rate of 12% over 20 years.

Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values - For the EIRR to drop to 12%, project
benefits would have to decrease by over 50%, at 75% decrease in benefits, agronomic
EIRR shrinks to an unsustainable 2.0%

               Summary of Economic Analysis for Agronomic benefits
                                           -50%          -75%
                           Base Case    Decrease In    Decrease in
                                         Benefits       Benefits
                            36.00%        15.5%          2.0%



Component 2: Minor Irrigation Development Program

The project invested some US$ 2.20 million to support the Minor Irrigation Program. A
condition for participation by WUAs was that at least 10% of investment costs had to be
contributed by the farmers pushing investments to US$2.40 million. Several minor
irrigation schemes were developed covering a total of some 1,600 ha of fairly productive
land cultivated mostly with higher value horticulture, orchard and commercial field
crops. The cost of the investment per ha amounts to some US$1,350.00/ha which covers
both, full systems with piping and hydrants for which the farmers need to buy their own
sprinklers or drip irrigation systems, and systems where electrification was provided. In
more than half of the WUAs formed, farmers were already irrigating using their own
motor pumps and piping and sprinklers or dripping hose. The motivation to participate by
farmers nonetheless was the cost of fuel and the prospects to switch from gasoline or
diesel powered pumps to electrical power. This would reduce pumping costs by 75%.
Part of the program’s intent as envisaged in the PAD already was to establish a few well-
functioning pilots to drive demand for further investments or develop a support measure
as part of the Ministry’s rural development program with IPARD funding.

The investments under this component were significantly delayed and only two of the
sites identified at appraisal participated in the program. The other sites only had the
infrastructure finally installed as of end of 2013. That means that the cropping patterns
and main elements of the economic benefits cannot be verified and since significant areas
are already irrigated, the major economic benefits will be reduced pumping costs.


                                            41
The project expected yield increases between 28% and 130% which appears highly
optimistic given that most areas were irrigated in a rudimentary fashion already before
investment. The pilot sites were to amount to a total of 570ha at a cost of some US$2.5
million or roughly US$4,372 per ha. In spite of these high costs an average EIRR of
some 25% was expected. The project developed an area three times larger with 10% less
costs. The Sensitivity analysis indicated that the EIRR is relatively sensitive to the
project yields of irrigated crops and input costs. The lower per Hectare investments made
under the project have better prospects for sustainability than the original design under
the project.

Fiscal Analysis
The ICR did not undertake a fiscal analysis as the reforms introduced re-established
publicly financed Water Boards and increased public expenditures in the water sector to
ensure adequate maintenance and operation of the extensive water management
infrastructure in the country.




                                           42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                        Title                 Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Tijen Arin                Senior Environmental Economist    EASER
Elmas Arisoy              Manager                           EASR2
Rita E. Cestti            Sr Water Resources Spec.          OPSOR
Usaid I. El-Hanbali       Consultant                        ECSAR TTL
Giuseppe Fantozzi         Senior Rural Development Speci     AES
Michael Gascoyne          Senior Resource Management Off    WBICA
Anna C. O'Donnell         Social Development Specialist     SASDS
Helen Z. Shahriari        Sr Social Scientist               AFTCS
Kathy E. Sharrow          Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Jyldyz Wood               Junior Professional Associate     ECSSD

Supervision/ICR
Elmas Arisoy            Manager                             EASR2
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic Sr. Financial Management Specia     ECSO3
Usaid I. El-Hanbali     Consultant                          ECSAR
                        Senior Rural Development
Giuseppe Fantozzi                                            AES
                        Specialist
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu  Senior Environmental Engineer      EASER
Stjepan Gabric          Senior Operations Officer          ECSUW
Daniel P. Gerber        Rural Development Specialist       ECSAR
Nikola Ille             Senior Environmental Specialist    ECSEN TTL
Bekim Imeri             Social Scientist                   ECSSO
Gabriel Ionita          Sr. Agricultural Spec.             ECSAR
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov   Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Mirjana Popovic         Online Communications Associat     ECAEX
Ama Esson               Program Assistant                  ECSSD
Nikola Kerleta          Procurement Specialist
Olivera Jordanovic      Operations Officer                  ECSAR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                   54.50
  FY05                                                                  406.40
  FY06                                                                    0.50
  FY07                                                                    0.00


                                          43
  FY08                             0.00
                  Total:         461.40
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                              0.00
  FY05                              0.00
  FY06                            146.60
  FY07                             97.00
  FY08                            124.00
  FY09                             60.00
  FY10                             58.25
  FY11                             58.25
  FY12                             58.25
  FY13                             54.00
  FY14                             79.00
                  Total:        1,196.00




                           44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1. Research Methodology and Sample
Starting from the Project goals, we turned to the standardised face-to-face interviews in our
research; the interviewees were owners of household positioned near the channels and dikes the
revitalisation work was carried at. Concretely, these are the interviews with appropriate sample of
farming household owners, whose property was exposed to the effects of non-regulated waters
prior to the works, as well as with the proprietors of non-farming households who own
houses/apartments at the defended area.

Another procedure for collection of data were in-depth interviews that encompassed the
following: i) decision makers - the advantage was appointed to the head of designated local
community; ii) experts from water management companies that carried out the works and the
companies responsible for maintenance of objects; iii) influent professional individuals from the
defended area (absolute advantage was given to selection of agronomic or some other agricultural
experts in the farming areas), and iv) owners of larger farms and/or owners of business objects in
the defended area or along the channel. In farming areas, at each of the objects, interviews were
carried out with four to five individuals of the described profile.

Selection of households was done in different areas of defended region:
        i. At the beginning of a channel;
        ii. In the middle of a channel;
        iii. At the lower end of a channel, and
        iv. In the background of properties situated by the channel.

At larger objects, 10 interviewees (4x10) were selected from each of the group of households; at
smaller objects, four households were selected (4x10).

The lists of households in each of the group were made based upon pairing of data from
documentation of companies that carried out the works and the cadastre. The selection of
particular household was random in each of the groups, with taking into account that at least three
quarters of selected households be the registered households (see the following Table).

           Location of Interviews and Types of Households (in absolute numbers)
                                                  Farming -                                  Total
        Interview location    Non-farming                           Farming - registered
                                                 unregistered
Bavaniste channel                   -                 3                      32                35
Kupusina - Sombor                  11                  8                     21                40
Plavna channel                      5                  3                     34                42
Tovarnik channel                    -                 10                     29                39
Gabrovacka River - Nis             39                  1                      -                40
Cer side channel                   17                 11                     12                40
Total                              72                 36                    128               236




                                                45
Out of the total number of households whose owners were interviewed, 164 (or 69%) were
farming households (128 registered, 36 non-registered); whereas 72 (or 31%) were non-farming8.
The largest number of households (38%) were at the middle of the channel/dike, then in the lower
part (27%), upper part (21%) and 14% in the background of channel/dike. Due to the fact that we
aspired to interview household owners, our appropriate sample has predominantly male group -
77%, against 23% of women. In relation to the age, 18% of interviewees were under 40, from 40
to 50 there were 23% of them, from 50 to 60 29% and above the age of 60 there were 30% of
interviewees.

Almost half of the interviewees - 48% - had only elementary education (complete or not); two or
three vocational training schools were completed by 22%, four-year secondary schools by 32%,
while 11% had higher or university education. It is interesting to note that, when educational
structure is concerned, the farmers were more advanced than non-farmers: 39% with elementary
education or less, 18% with two or three years vocational training, 33% with four-year secondary
schools and 10% with higher or university education. Our appropriate sample consisted of 48%
of farmers, 26% of workers, 19% of technicians and clerks with secondary schools and 7% of
experts.

At the average, the surveyed households had four members; 39% of households had less than 4,
while the same %, 39, were those who had more than 4 members. In 59% of households there
were no members younger than 15 and 20% of households were with one child. Seventeen % had
two children and 4% had three or more. In 51% of households there were no members above the
age of 65, in 28% there was one, in 19% there were two, and in 2% of households there were
three or more members older than 65.

Exactly half of the household had no employed member; in 27% there was one employed, in 19%
there were two, while in 4% there were three or more employed members. In 60% of households
no one was looking for a job, in 26% of them one member was looking for a job, in 11% there
were two and in 3% there were three or more members looking for jobs.

We could not obtain data on average monthly income per household member in one in five
households (regardless of the source). Average income per household member was 10,000 RSD
p/m for 23% of households, from 10 to 20,000 in 35%, from 20 to 40,000 in 16% and only 6% of
households had more than 40,000RSD.

On average, homes of non-farming households surveyed were 65 metres away from channel/dike.
Homes of non-registered farmers were, at an average, 310 metres away from channel/dike.
Homes of registered farmers were 1,299 metres (1.3 kilometres) away from channel/dike, at an
average. A total of 88% of registered households have a field that is, at most, 100 metres away
from channel/dike. The average distance of all properties for 87% of households is less than
1,000 metres from a channel/dike.

The average size of property of registered farmers is 18 hectares. Almost two fifths (38%) of
registered farmers take land under lease. The average lease costs 200 euros for each of them.
From this category of farmers, 20% hire helping hands, i.e. seasonal workers.



8
  There were no data about the nature of household for seven of them in the questionnaire; we could not
establish afterwards if they were farming or non-farming ones.



                                                    46
2. Awareness on Water Regulation Works under IDRP
About three fifths of citizens who live near the channels and dikes that were revitalised were not
informed about the works to be done, and are not familiar, even today with the issues of water
regulation objects management.

The number of informed and informed to a point was a bit bigger at the time prior to the
beginning of works than today, when maintenance of channels and dikes is in focus (21% against
15%). It is also worth noting that awareness about the works was at a bit higher level while the
works were carried out than in the period prior and after them. This is best seen when average
awareness is taken into account. Although it is, in all three cases, within the limits of low
awareness ("I knew something") and stands at 1.73 (minimum = 1, maximum = 4); however, there
are significant differences. On one side, there are low assessments of awareness before the works
began (1.67) and on the maintenance of water regulation objects (1.61); on the other hand, there
is a bit higher assessment mark of awareness at the time the works were carried out (1.90).

One has to bear in mind the fact that the ratings of awareness are de facto self-assessments, as the
interviewees put them themselves. It is realistic to suppose that they were biased and that, at least,
some of them rated their awareness at the higher level than it objectively is. Awareness is a
socially desired answer, in contrast non awareness. If the hypothesis is correct, we can assume
that the un-awareness is yet higher, while awareness is lower than what was established based
upon self-assessment of the awareness level. A sort of control of self-assessment was done
through the following question: "Do you know who is responsible today for irrigation/drainage in
your region?" Due to the fact that this test-question was very general and that the answers to it
were offered, we did not expect the % of non-informed people to be high. In fact, with this
question, we wanted to establish the relative % of those who are completely uninformed.

However, despite this, it turned out that the number of uninformed was very high - almost half of
the interviewees (48%). When the number of those who said they don't know precisely who is
responsible for water regulation objects maintenance is added the number of those who gave
incorrect answers (municipality 5%, local community 3%), we come to the 56% of uninformed
citizens against 44% informed. We came to the almost same relation when self-assessment was
applied - 57% of uninformed against 43% of those who are little, up to a point and completely
informed. We can conclude that we can trust the established assessments of (self)awareness:
generally, a bit more than half of interviewees are uniformed about the issue of revitalisation of
dikes and channels, a fifth is informed, and two fifths are partially (a bit and to a point) informed.

The answers to questions about (non)awareness should be viewed in context of the answer to the
following question: Who should take care about the maintenance of drainage channels and
dikes?. Answers to this question indicate a bit the level of citizens' interest for the issues of
revitalisation and maintenance of water regulation objects.

Firstly, we found out that all interviewees said they know who should take care about the
maintenance of drainage channels and dikes. Three fifths of interviewees (62%) named relevant
public water management enterprises that really take (and should take) care about the water
regulation objects. On the other hand, two fifths (38%) named some other actors, mostly the
municipality (18%). Other (potential) actors for channel and dike maintenance were named in
significantly fewer numbers: 7% - "citizens upon self-initiative", and 3% each "local water supply
and sewage companies" and "people whose property is close to the channel"; 7% said "someone
else".



                                                 47
So, when this question is concerned, and within the context of our test questions, we conclude
above all that half of the interviewees don't know who is responsible for channels and dikes
maintenance, i.e. drainage and irrigation objects, but they all know who should be responsible!

                  Table 1: Awareness of the Water Regulation Works (in %)
                            Activities before      Status of      Maintenance of
                                                                                         Average
                            the beginning of        works         water regulation
                                 works                                objects
Uninformed                         61                 39                 57                 53
Informed a bit (I knew                                                                      28
                                   18                 40                 28
something)
Informed up to a point             13                 14                 12                 13
Informed                            8                  7                 3                  6
TOTAL                             100                100                100                100
 (min 1, max 4)                  1,67               1,90               1,61               1,73

Due to the fact that we have claims, obtained in in-depth interviews (particularly by
"representatives" of water management companies) that all those who live or have property by
revitalised channel and dike were regularly informed about the work to be done, a certain
question arises: is this really the case of non awareness or something else?

There is a question also if citizens are uninformed because they didn't want to be (but had such a
possibility) or they maybe forgot that they were informed about the work to be done, about its
status and modes and about those responsible for maintenance of water regulation objects?

We expected that registered farming households were more informed than the others when the
issue of irrigation and drainage is concerned. However, this is not the case. Correlation between
the type of a household and knowledge about responsibility for water regulation maintenance is
0.28; correct answers are provided by 62% of interviewees from non-farming households, 47%
from unregistered farming households, followed only then by registered farming households with
34% of correct answers. Correlation (or the contingency coefficient) between the opinion on
water management maintenance and education level of interviewees stands at 0.30. Average
awareness (min=1, max=4) when household owners with elementary school (or less) stands at
1.54; they are followed by those with two-year vocational training - 1.59, while it stands at 1.69
among those with four-year secondary schooling and higher levels of education. In fact, when
data on type of household and education levels of owners are linked, we come to conclusion that
the more educated farmers are more informed than the others, but only when the same level of
education is taken into account (for example, among interviewees with four-year secondary
education, farmers are more informed than non-farmers).

In total, the level of awareness among citizens was very low when beginning and during works.
The dominant target group in our research - the registered farming households - based upon
statements of their owners, were neither sufficiently nor properly informed; 59% of them were
not informed about working activities before they began; only 13% were completely informed;
when course of the work actions is concerned, the ration between the uninformed and informed is
42% against 12%, and when maintenance of water management objects is concerned, it is the
whole 64 against 5%.

In this context, we can come to the following conclusion: even if regular and compulsory
information was provided to citizens who live and/or work close to channels/dikes that were



                                                48
revitalised, as some of the interviewees from reconstruction companies claim, the
information was not at sufficient level, neither in quantity nor in quality.

Satisfaction of Citizens BEFORE and AFTER the Works
The following four elements of work activities, i.e. four effects of work on channels and dikes,
were taken as key indicators for successful revitalisation of water regulation objects:
        1) Flooding defence,
        2) Regulation of underground waters,
        3) Drainage/outflow of surplus water, and
        4) Irrigation possibilities.

In fact, these elements make hydro-technical melioration. Simply said, the substance of these
indicators is that people are not afraid from floods, that there are no obstacles from underground
or ground waters when farming the land, and that they can irrigate their fields.

We asked people what was the level of their satisfaction and dissatisfaction with these four
elements today, when works are finished. The rise in degree of satisfaction was for us the sign of
successfully completed works, or revitalisation of water regulation objects.

           Table 2: Satisfaction of citizens with water regulation objects works (in %)
 How satisfied and how                         Before the works                            After the works
 dissatisfied are you with…              1      2     3    4     5             1       2      3      4      5       
Flooding defence                        24     15 31 20 10 2.78                10       9     32      26     23     3.43
Possibility of irrigation               29     14 25 25          7 2.66        26       8     15      25     26     3.18
Regulation of underground waters        31     14 31 16          8 2.54        18       7     25      29     21     3.29
Drainage/outflow of surplus water       29     20 32 14          5 2.46        14       8     27      33     18     3.35
Average                                 28     16 30 19          7 2.61        17       8     24      29     22     3.31
 Legend: 1 = very dissatisfied; 2 = dissatisfied; 3 = neither satisfied nor dissatisfied; 4 = satisfied; 5 = very
 satisfied; 0 = average value of satisfaction (min = 1, max = 5)

Forty four % of interviewees were dissatisfied with situation BEFORE the works began,
30% were neutral - neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, while 26% were satisfied. The average rating
of "previous dissatisfaction" was 2.61 - so, only a bit above the borders marking the "dissatisfied"
and "neutral" rating. The owners' dissatisfaction was mostly centred on drainage (49%),
regulation of underground waters (45%), possibilities for irrigation (43%) and flooding defence
(39%). Satisfaction ranged between 19% (drainage) and 32% (possibilities for irrigation).

Twenty five % of interviewees are dissatisfied with situation AFTER the completion of
works; 24% are neutral, while 51% are satisfied. The average rating of current dissatisfaction is
3.31 - a strong B, which is close to bordering the rating of "satisfied".

Today, one in two households is satisfied with any of the researched indicators related to the
success of revitalisation of water regulation objects (the % of satisfied ranges between 49 and
51%). On the other hand, the % of those who are dissatisfied is the lowest when flooding defence




                                                       49
is concerned (19%), drainage (22%), regulation of underground waters (25%) and possibilities of
irrigation (34%)9.

Comparison of previous and current levels of satisfaction and dissatisfaction among citizens
shows, as it was easy to establish from provided data, that the satisfaction among citizens rose at
an average level from 26% to 51% (or, from the prospective of average rating from 2.61 to 3.31).
If we index the dissatisfaction with previous situation with 100, then we see that the current
dissatisfaction has the index 57, and satisfaction the index 198. This is obviously the case of
very visible improvement of situation when waters and water regulation are concerned!

Comparison of satisfaction and dissatisfaction index, when individual indicators are observed,
the biggest decrease in dissatisfaction is linked with irrigation (100 to 45) and regulation of
underground waters (100 to 48), and a bit lower in cases of drainage (100 to 44) and flood
defence (100 to 78). Increase of satisfaction is almost threefold in case of irrigation (100 to 279),
double in case of drainage (100 to 219), and very high in case of flooding defence (100 to 170)
and regulation of underground waters (100 to 165).

Average ratings of dissatisfaction that comprise all the aspects of changes of levels of satisfaction
and dissatisfaction are highest for drainage - for 0.89, regulation of underground waters, for 0.75,
in case of flooding defence 0.65 and finally irrigation - new average rating for satisfaction is
higher by 0.52.

Table 2: Dissatisfaction of citizens with water regulation objects works




9
  This is a percent to be remembered. As the key for understanding of status marked with non-regulated
waters and water regulators was lack of drainage and presence of underground waters, current status is
marked with little opportunities for irrigation. This is why we have a bit higher dissatisfaction than in other
cases. One should suppose that the expectations in this area were very high (and were imposed to citizens
before the works began), so that disappointment with small possibilities for irrigation are higher. However,
the small or decreased possibilities for irrigation do not necessarily have to be related to revitalisation of
water regulation objects; they could be related to high costs of irrigation equipment etc.



                                                      50
Among the registered farmers, the decrease of dissatisfaction is expressed the most when
drainage is concerned (100 against 53), in cases related to flooding defence (100 against 63) and
regulation of underground waters (100 against 64) and, in the end, in case of irrigation (100
against 75). The increase of satisfaction is highest when drainage is concerned (100 to 280),
regulation of underground waters (100 to 193) and in flooding defence (100 to 159) and irrigation
(100 to 158).

The interviewees surveyed in in-depth interviews (the so-called relevant informants) are satisfied
to greater extent than the basic population. The average rating of their satisfaction is 4.14
(compared to 3.32) in case of basic population. It was assessed, in the in-depth interviews, that
the citizens, at an average, are satisfied with completed works; the average rating is 3.83, which is
higher than the rating the citizens express themselves in regard to the level of their satisfaction.

Summarized, it is an undisputable fact that there was a significant decrease of
dissatisfaction and high increase of satisfaction among citizens; today, we have half of
satisfied citizens, compared to a quarter in the previous period; this means that satisfaction
of citizens has doubled. However, this doesn't mean that dissatisfaction has disappeared,
although it is half from what it used to be.

Evaluation of non-regulated water effects
(4.1) Evaluation of risks of possible damages before and after the water regulation
works

We examined the assessment of risk from bad waters for 12 items, including the risk to life of the
interviewee, lives of his family and citizens in general. We asked the interviewees, property
owners close to the revitalised dikes and channels, to evaluate the risk for given items before the
revitalisation works and risks for same items after the work was completed. The comparison of
two risks should have provided us with results on assessed risk intensity, location and structure of
risks, as well as the idea about changes in relation to situation before the works.

 Table 3: Evaluation of risks from damage Before and After the water regulation works (in )

Risks from possible damage     1 very
                                          2 high        3 medium   4 low   5 very low          
                                high
                  Before          23         10           17        17        33        100    3.26
Drinking water    After           10          6           11        21        52        100    3.98
                  Difference     -13         -4           -6        +4        +19              0.72
Industrial or     Before          14         15           18        17        36        100    3.47
animal feed       After           6           7           11        23        53        100    4.09
crops, soy…       Difference      -8         -8           -7        +6        +23              0.62
                  Before          16         21           16        12        35        100    3.30
Grain             After           7          12           16        16        49        100    3.88
                  Difference      -9         -9            0        +4        +14              0.58
                  Before          15         19           12        14        40        100    3.46
Vegetables        After           8           6           15        23        48        100    4.07
                  Difference      -7        -13           +3        +9        +8               0.61
                  Before          14          8           10        19        49        100    3.80
Auxiliary objects After           3           5            9        24        59        100    4.31
                  Difference      -9         -3           -1        +5        +10              0.51



                                                   51
                 Before          13          9         12         16          50       100    3.82
House/flat       After           2           6          9         28          55       100    4.28
                 Difference     -11         -3         -3         +12         +5              0.46
                 Before          12          8          9         21          50       100    3.88
Food and
                 After           4           2          8         31          55       100    4.31
provisions
                 Difference      -8         -6         -1         +10         +5
                 Before          12          8          7         21          52       100    3.93
Appliances at
                 After           3           5          9         22          61       100    4.35
house/flat
                 Difference      -9         -3         +2         +1          +9              0.42
                 Before          13         15         10         16          46       100    3.68
Fruit and
                 After           7           7         10         23          53       100    4.07
vineyards
                 Difference      -6         -8          0         +7          +7              0.39
                 Before          10          6          9         18          57       100    4.08
Agricultural
                 After           2           2          7         28          61       100    4.44
mechanisation
                 Difference      -8         -4         -2         +10         +4              0.36
Interviewees and Before          11          5          7         16          61       100    4.10
citizens in      After           3           3         10         16          68       100    4.43
general          Difference      -8         -2         +3          0          +7              0.33
                 Before          11          5          5         11          68       100    4.21
Cattle           After           3           4          3         19          71       100    4.51
                 Difference      -8         -1         -2         +8          +3              0.30
                 Before          14         11         11         17          48       100    3.74
Average          After           5           5         10         23          57       100    4.15
                 Difference      -9         -6         -1         +6          +9              0.41

Before the works have started, at an average, in 65% of cases the risk was evaluated as very
low or low, in 11% as medium, and in 25% of cases as high and very high.

                                       Average of all risks




After the works were completed, an average of 80% of interviewees are of the opinion that risks
are low or very low, 10% that they are medium, and another 10% that they are high or very high.

All high or very high risks have decreased two and half times, from a 25% to 10%.
The greatest risk has been found in the areas of vegetables, grains, fruit and vineyard production,
industrial and cattle feed crops, but also the risk of water contamination. In the second group,
risks linked to house/apartment, equipment, food and provisions, auxiliary objects and


                                                 52
mechanisation have decreased, too. In the end, the third group comprises risks that were already
lowest, the risks for people and cattle.

(4.2) Evaluation of damage from bad and non-regulated water

A bit more than half of our interviewees (almost three fifths or precisely 56%) assessed that prior
to water regulation works they did suffer lower or higher damages from it. High level damages
are described by 28% interviewees, medium by 12%, and low by 16%. If we mark the lack of
damage with 1, low damage with 2, medium with 3, high with 4 and very high with 5, then the
average evaluated damage before the beginning of works or damage index stands at 2.33
(between medium and high, with the estimate being closer to the latter).

        Table 4: Evaluation of damage from water before and after the works (in %)
Did you suffer damage from bad and non-regulated water?      Before works           After works
No                                                                44                     77
Yes, a bit                                                        16                     10
Yes, medium                                                       12                      5
Yes, a lot                                                        20                      6
Yes, very big damages                                             8                       2
Total                                                            100                    100
                     (min 1, max 5)                             2.33                   1.44

Today, after conclusion of works, damages are mentioned by fewer than quarter of interviewees
(23%), and lack of damage a bit more than three quarter of interviewees (77%). There was a
change in the structure of intensity of damage as well; the dominant is low damage with 10%,
followed by a lot of it and very big damage - 8%, while there are 5% of those who evaluate is as
medium. The damage index (min 1, max 5) is 1.44, which shows that the index has declined for
almost one point (precisely for 0.89). Proportion of damage before and after the works in water
regulation is 100 against 40. The estimated damage has fallen for exactly two and half times.


                 Evaluation of damage from bad and non-regulated water




(4.3) Evaluation of objects' damage due to water surplus before and after the works
We tried to make holistic evaluation of damage (damage as a whole) precisely through damage
on construction objects, and via five dimensions of damage: water in cellar/at ground floor,
moisture in walls of objects, loosening of objects' foundations, caving in of objects, as well as
exposure of objects to landslides. Firstly, it became obvious that landslide is not a relevant



                                                53
indicator of damage as it does not exist in flat lands such as Vojvodina, or better to say the
landslides are extremely rare, while the frequency of occurrence of other for dimensions does
speak about their relevance.

The most frequent damage occurred in the form of water in cellars and or at ground floors
(residential or other buildings) - almost two fifths of interviewees named this (38%); almost the
same % (37%) said the damage was from moisture in the objects' walls. A fifth of interviewees
said that water did loose the foundation of objects, while in one in ten households there was
caving in of objects (which is not a small number). At an average, a quarter of households
suffered damage on objects due to water surplus at spots where it is unnecessary and harmful.

                Table 5: Damages on objects water before and after works (in %)

Due to the surplus of water did          Before works                       After works
the following occur or does it    No         Yes                    No         Yes          
happen now:
Water in cellar/at ground floor    62        38          100         74          26         100
Loosening of foundation            80        20          100         87          13         100
Moisture in objects' walls         63        37          100         76          24         100
Caving in of objects               90        10          100         94          6          100
Average for these 4 variables      74        26          100         83          17         100
Landslide activated               99.5       0.5         100         99          1          100

Following the revitalisation of channels/dikes, the most frequent damage occurred in the form of
water in cellar/at ground floor (26%) and moisture in objects' walls (24%); loosening of
foundations and caving in of objects occurred less frequently (13% and 6% respectively). At an
average, a sixth of households (17%) suffered damages of objects after the water regulation
works.

The biggest improvement was recorded in cases where damages were most frequent - water in
cellar/at ground floor, which fell for 12% (from 38% to 26%), and in case of moisture in walls
which now decreased for 13% (from 37% to 24%). Loosening of foundations fell from 20% to
13%, and caving in of objects from 10% to 6%. The number of households who suffered
damages fell from 26% before the works to 17% after the water regulation works at
channels and dikes - the proportion of damage before the works and after them stands at 3:2.

3. Evaluation of Regulated Water Effects on Agriculture

(5.1) Evaluation of regulated water effects on increase of agricultural production

Forty seven % of owners of farming property gave positive answer to the general question
"Did the water regulation works enable you to increase farming production", whereas 53% said
no. Among owners who gave positive answers, low (21%) and medium (20%) increase of
production dominate; high increase was quoted by 6% of owners, in relation to the total number
of farming households.

The results dealing with increase in livestock and poultry are a bit smaller; the increase came
for 29% of households, while no increase was noted by 39%; 32% of interviewees could not
evaluate the effect.



                                                54
Out of the total of 38 households engaged in cattle, poultry and fish breed for market sale, five
could not say if there was or was not the increase of production; 13 said there was no increase and
10 said there was increase in production due to water regulation.

Out of the total of 103 households who kept cattle, poultry and other small animals, 39% could
not say if they had more or less animals before the water regulation; 41% said that water
regulation did not bear influence on number of animals, while 20% said there was an increase
in their number due to water regulation.

(5.2) Evaluation of water regulation effects on changes in scope and quality of production

Owners of 164 farming households say that positive changes were noted in quantity and
quality of production at half of their property due to revitalisation of channels/dikes, while
the other half was not influenced by it in any manner. The most frequently quoted changes are
in the size of crops - it occurred at 62% of properties; 23% of them saw small changes, 26%
partial and 13% saw pretty high and high. This is followed by improved quality of crops at 60%
of farms (23% small, 21% medium and 13% high) and respect of crop sequence in one in two
properties. At the end, there are changes in size of land for cultivation and possibility of seeding
new cultures (both by 37%), which was enabled by the water regulation works.

     Table 6: Evaluation of water regulation effects on changes in amount and quality of
                               agricultural production (in %)
Did water regulation enable the      1 not the   2 a little   3 up to a   4 pretty   5 a lot         
following:                             least                    point      much
higher crops                            38          23           26          11        2       100   2.17
higher quality of crops                 40          23           21          12        4       100   2.18
larger areas for cultivation            52          24           14           8        2       100   1.84
seeding of new cultures                 63          17           15           4        1       100   1.61
seeding of early cultures               63          15           14           7        1       100   1.66
respect of crop sequence                50          21           20           8        1       100   1.88
Average                                 51          21           18           8        2       100   1.89

     Evaluation of regulated water effects on increase of agricultural production (%)




                                                 55
 (5.3) Evaluation of water regulation effects on changes in production technology
The water management works have led to adequate changes in the technology of agricultural
production, above all in land cultivation, use of chemical protection means, fertilisation,
nourishment and harvesting of agricultural produce.

  Table 7: Evaluation of water regulation effects on changes in production technology (in %)
 Did water regulation enable or ease the   1 not the    2     3 up to a 4 pretty    5
                 following:                  least   A little   point    much      A lot          
Cultivation of land                           37       18        22        18       5      100    2.37
Use of chemical protection                    42       15        22        12       9      100    2.30
Fertilisation, nourishment                    41       14        27        14       4      100    2.26
Harvesting                                    35       23        28        11       3      100    2.23
Average                                       39       17        25        14       5      100    2.29


Due to the water regulation works, almost two thirds of farming households saw
improvement in land cultivation (63%) and harvesting (65%). Three fifths of households
saw the improvement in use of chemical protection means (58%) and in fertilisation and
nourishment of agricultural produce (59%). The most intense changes occurred in land cultivation
- 23% of household owners say the changes were big, 22% medium and 8% small. There are
significant changes in use of chemical means, where water regulation enabled a lot of changes for
21% of properties, 22% partial and 15% of small changes. At an average, the water regulation
works brought changes in production technology to three fifths of agricultural households
(61%), while no changes were seen in two fifths of households. With a quarter of households,
the changes were partial, with a fifth high, and with a sixth - small.


(5.4) Final evaluation of water regulation works
Final evaluations of water regulation works were linked to three aspects of the task:
    1. Total completion of works,
    2. Works on maintenance of channels/dikes and
    3. Performance of water management companies.

The total evaluation of revitalisation works at channels/dikes stands almost exactly at the border
between medium and very good - 3.48. Namely, a fifth of evaluations are poor (21%), a quarter is
in the middle (26%), and a bit more than half of ratings are good (53%). The more competent part
of our sample (in-depth interviews) grades the quality of completed works with 4.28 at an
average.
                 Table 8: Final evaluation of water regulation works (in %)
         How do you evaluate:               1       2       3        4      5              
Carried out works in water regulation       10      11      26       28     25     100     3.48
Maintenance of channels/dikes               28      21      24       19     8      100     2.59
Work of water management companies          23      10      24       30     13     100     3.01
Average                                     20      14      25       26     15     100     3.02
Maintenance of channels was graded with barely a three, or a bit more with three than two. Half
of interviewees (49%) gave poor marks, a quarter (24%) gave a three, and only a bit over a
quarter (27%) of owners gave good marks. In in-depth interviews, maintenance was graded with
strong three - 3.33 at an average.


                                                   56
The work of water management companies was graded with almost an exact three (3.01). A third
of owners (33%) gave poor marks to water management companies, while a bit more than two
fifths of owners (43%) gave good marks.

Conditionally, we could look for an average grade bearing in mind the three aspects of completed
works. If we did that - and we did - we find out that the general average remains in fact at the
level of evaluation of work of water management companies - 3.02. At an average, a third of
owners gave ones and twos, a quarter gave three and two fifths gave fours and fives.

(5.5) Final evaluation of general contribution of water management works

We took the following for the criteria of general contribution of water regulation works for
citizens: (1) feeling of personal and family safety; (2) feeling of higher safety of citizens10; (3)
evaluation of improvement of life quality, and (4) evaluation of benefits for citizens after the
works were completed11.

                   Table 9: General contribution of water management (in %)
                                         1 not the     2a      3 up to a   4 pretty     5 a lot          
                                           least      little     point      much
Feeling of personal and family safety       23          13        20          29          15      100    3, 00
Feeling of higher security                  17          15        23          29          16      100    3,13
Improvement of life quality                 24          13        27          24          12      100    2,87
Total benefit for citizens                  11          14        25          33          17      100    3,32
Average                                     20          14        25          26          15      100    3,02




10
   Feeling of improved safety and security are pretty similar criteria. However, in the preparation of
research and series of discussions we had with citizens living close to channels and dikes, representatives of
local communities exposed to effects of bad water and individuals from companies that were engaged in
water regulation works, we found out that there's a difference between safety and security. Our
interviewees described the feeling of safety as lack of danger from water ("We're now safe from bad
waters"), while the feeling of security was linked to the lack of worry about what "waters can do to us";
"we don't think about water now"; "we have no worries now"; "we're secure now".

11
  The questions were as follows:
ab1) "Did the water regulation, and if yes (firstly protection from flooding and ground water, but drainage
and outflow regime and possibility of irrigation as well) add to the personal safety and safety of your
family?"
ab2) "Did the water regulation, and if yes (firstly protection from flooding and ground water, but drainage
and outflow regime and possibility of irrigation as well) add to stronger feeling of safety for everything you
have and work with?"
ab3) "Did the water regulation, and if yes (firstly protection from flooding and ground water, but drainage
and outflow regime and possibility of irrigation as well) add to improvement of quality of your and
everyday life of your family?"
ab4) "How do you evaluate the total benefit for citizens who have property close to object?"




                                                     57
A third of the interviewees (36%) believe that water regulation did not additionally
improve their feeling of safety and safety of their family; a fifth say the improvement was
medium, and a bit more than two fifths (44%) say that water regulation has pretty much or highly
increased their feeling of safety. At an average, the upgrading was graded as medium (3.00).
However, in in-depth interviews, 69% of interviewees said that the citizens feel safe after the
works were completed.

A third of the interviewees (32%) as well believe that water regulation did not add to their feeling
of safety for "everything they have and work for", almost a quarter grades the contribution as
medium, while 45% of interviewees say it was "pretty high" or "high". In this case as well the
average grade is three (more precisely 3.13).

Almost two fifths of the interviewees (37%) believe that water regulation did not substantially
improve the quality of life, a quarter (27%) say the contribution was medium, and a strong third
(36%) are of the opinion that it was pretty good and high to the quality of life.

At the end, the general benefit for citizens, of water regulation works, was graded with a
strong three (3.32). A quarter of interviewees gave poor grades, a quarter medium grade
and half good grades. However, the general benefit for citizens, evaluated in in-depth
interviews, was graded with 4.30 - and this is relevant, because the in-depth interviews comprised
people where it was logical to assume that they are better informed.

Summing up of four final evaluations of effects of revitalisation of channels/dikes provides
us with an average grade; "three' is the average of averages, holistic finale of more or less
different effects, mostly graded between strong two and strong three. At an average, a third
of interviewees claim that there is no effect (20%) or that it is small (14%); a quarter of
interviewees say that the contribution of works at channels/dikes was medium, while two
fifths of interviewees grade them with four (26%) or five (15%).

4. Opinion on Citizens Attitude towards Water Regulation Objects

We complete the research report with answers to three public opinion questions. In fact, we
wanted to examine three relations of citizens towards the revitalised channels/dikes:
 1. Do the citizens who live/work close to channels/dikes damage the water regulation objects?
 2. Can citizens participate in maintenance of water regulation objects; and
 3. Are citizens interested in use of channels for irrigation?

So, this is about the practical relation towards what has been done, what has to be maintained and
has its full sense only if all the possibilities that regulation provides are used.

Table 10: Opinion on damage the citizens cause on channels/dikes (in %)
   Do the households and if yes to what                                Agricultural
                                            Non-agricultural                                Total
      extent, in the area damage the                                   households
                                              household
channel/dike and its normal functioning?
it doesn't happen with us                          12                       20                17
it happens rarely                                    6                      16                13
it happens, but not often                          17                       29                26
it happens often                                   65                       35                44
Total                                              100                     100               100




                                                58
The whole 44% of interviewed owners believe that those who live or have property
close to channels/dikes often damage the objects; if we add those who say that such things
happen but "not very often", we come to the unbelievable 70% of owners who testify about
our negligence.

To avoid confusion, we were precise in our question what comprises the possible damage; the
following was listed: evacuation of septic pits into the channel, disposing of garbage, dead cattle,
etc. During our visits to some of the objects we were able to see numerous accounts of negligence
and listen to complains of citizens on behaviour of their neighbours. The answers and direct
insight into the situation in the field testify that some (or many) drainage or other channels are
turned into public toilets.

We bring your attention to the unusually significant difference between answers coming
from agricultural and non-agricultural households in this research. Interviewees from
non-agricultural households are more critical in the assessment of occurrence of damage of
water regulation objects (they believe it is done by those from farming households); so, two thirds
believe that damage to channels/dikes is frequent, while this opinion is expressed by a third
of agricultural households.

 Table 11: Opinion on citizens' contribution to maintenance of channels/dikes (in %)
  Can citizens who live and work next to
   channels, and if yes - to what extent,    Non-agricultural           Agricultural
contribute to the maintenance and proper       households               households            Total
       functioning of channel/dike?
 Can not                                            15                        15                     15
 They can, a bit                                     9                        17                     14
 Up to a point                                       7                        23                     18
 Pretty much                                        40                        26                     30
 They can, a lot                                    29                        19                     23
 Total                                              100                      100                    100

Found out is that there's an opinion that citizens damage the water regulation objects, exactly
those who’s general and concrete benefits them testified about. However, our interviewees
believe that citizens can largely contribute to maintenance of channels. At least, this is how it
used to be a while ago, and our interviewees in in-depth conversations confirmed this.

Half of the interviewees believe that citizens can pretty much (30%) or significantly (23%)
contribute to the maintenance of channels/dikes. The possibility of such contribution is rejected
by 15% interviewees; 14% think it is small, while 18% describe it as partial. The answers to this
question (Can citizens who live and work next to channels, and if yes - to what extent, contribute
to the maintenance and proper functioning of channel/dike) show significant difference between
interviewees from non-agricultural and agricultural households. Non-agricultural household
owners put more accent on the possibility of contribution (40% say pretty much, 29% say a lot)
than farmers. Farmers put it at 26% as pretty much, 29% a lot; in the latter case, it's more than
half of interviewees that consider contribution.

Summarized, there is an opinion that citizens do damage indisputably useful water regulation
objects, but that they can also contribute to their maintenance.




                                                 59
We held in-depth interviews with, grade the actual contribution of citizens to maintenance of
channels at an average 2.34; contribution of municipality with 2.53, while the contribution of
water management companies to maintenance of channels is graded a lot better - 3.72 (a weak
four). Citizens were graded by our "experts" with 25% of fours and fives, municipality 34% and
water management companies the whole 65%.

Drainage channels are only finished when their use for irrigation begins. This is the opinion
expressed nicely by one of our interviewees: "Yes, it was done fine and now there are no
marshes, but we need water now!" In this context, our final question dealing with interest of
agricultural households for irrigation becomes even more important.


Table 12: Interest of farmers for irrigation (in %)
   Are you interested, and if yes, to what extent, in irrigating your   Agricultural households
                 property or in doing it more than now?
Not interested                                                                     33
Interested a bit                                                                   16
Medium interest                                                                    16
Interested                                                                         35
Total                                                                             100

A third expresses interest, and if we add those who have medium interest, we come to half of the
owners of farming households close or near the revitalised waterways. If there is an interest, there
is a question why they don't irrigate their land more. Whatever occurs as a reason (or reasons), it
should be rectified so that the task of water regulation could be finished (if such a word can be
used at all, in relation to such a live object as the waterway).

This stand is confirmed in particular manner by the more informed part of our interviewees (those
from in-depth interviews). At an average, they evaluate the use of revitalised water management
objects with a 3. The use of channel/dikes some 36% of interviewees rate it as one and two, 34%
with three, and 30% with four and five.




                                                     60
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   61
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The counterparts did provide a comprehensive overview of the works that were
performed with many illustrations and is on file for consultation. In addition the client
prepared an economic review of the impact of the project which is reflected herewith.

Introduction
Based on the defined project task, research has been carried out with evaluation of the
effects of the project „Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project“. Research is carried
out on the locations in Serbia with implementation of the project of International agency
for the development, coordinated by Directorate for water management of the Republic
of Serbia.
      Project is realized on the total of nine locations, of which five in Vojvodina, and
       remaining four in central Serbia.
      Research is carried out in two phases, first one during 2012 and second in the
       beginning of 2014.
Aim of the research in the first phase in 2012 was evaluation of the impact of the activity
of the project to the agricultural production in the domains where project is implemented,
while in 2014, research is focused on the evaluation of the effects in 2013 and
verification and amendment of previous findings.
Method of work and data resources
In the first phase of research in 2012, we used primary and secondary data sources.
Primary data were collected based on representative sample in the regions where project
is realized. Sample was consisted of 251 examinees, whereat its size is defined through
characteristics of the location. Based on the sample, we brought to the conclusions which
are valid for entire project area. Secondary data were selected through desk research and
interviews with persons responsible for data management. These data were already
present in the units of observation or used to be available in state authorities, e.g. in the
Statistical office of the Republic of Serbia, Ministry of agriculture and water management
company. Primary data sources served for the evaluation of the effects, while secondary
were mostly used for the comparison and determination of performances of the subjects
and reference system.
In the second phase of the research at the beginning of 2014, the task was to check the
findings of previous examinations and eventually add with the data from 2013, by
collecting the data from four representative locations.
In order to make representative sample, we selected regions as follows: Novi Kneževac
basin, Bavanište channel, Tovarnik channel and Negotin basin. In order to obtain more
precise evaluations and additional controls of data in the second research phase, we also
collected the data from remaining locations, by selection of one sample from each. 20
agricultural producers in total were selected from the project area (annex 01).
Selection of the sample for the second research phase was intentional, buy selecting
farmers who are progressive in their environments, have overview upon the entire


                                             62
situation in the area and give precise answers to the questions with consequent
explanations. Data collection was carried out in the same manner as in the first phase,
using trained interviewers. Upon selection of samples, each research project area was
observed as independent group, since they are individual and mutually different
geographical entities. Following table describes the size of the sample according to the
project area.

Table Error! No text of specified style in document.-1:    Sample size per project areas

 Ord.
                              Project area                         Research 1         Research 2
 no.
  1.    Bavanište channel (Municipality of Kovin)                      30                     2
  2.    Novi kneževac basin (Municipality of Novi Kneževac)            40                     4
  3.    Plavna basin (Municipality of Odžaci)                          31                     1
  4.    Tovarnik channel (Municipality of Pećinci)                     24                     4
        Sanitation of inflow channel CS Kupusina (Municipality
  5.                                                                   10                     1
        of Apatin)
  6.    Cer orbital channel (Municipality of Šabac)                    48                     1
  7.    Tamnava, defense against floods (Municipality of Ub)           43                     2
  8.    Negotin basin (Municipality of Negotin)                        24                     4
  9.    Godomin region (Municipality of Smederevo)                      1                     1
        Total                                                         251                    20

We collected data from research area, among others, on sowing structure of the
households, yields per hectare, production costs, land sales and lease price.
In the second research phase, beside primary, we also used secondary data resources for
temperature and precipitation in the project area. We considered the data from nine
measuring spots of the Republic hydro-meteorological institute of Serbia - Kikinda,
Sombor, Novi Sad, Vršac, Sremska Mitrovica, Šabac, Valjevo, Smederevska Palanka and
Negotin. We displayed data for 2011, 2012 and 2013, as well as for perennial average for
2000-2013. Here we provide illustration using figure display of data for Negotin basin.
Data for other areas are given in the annexes of this report.
Data on precipitations and temperature are collected in order to display the fact that
natural conditions for agricultural production in the last three years used to be variable,
which certainly affected the results. Weather conditions during the year were not the
same in all areas, as well as they did not influence with the same intensity to the
agricultural production. Affect of weather conditions is evaluated based on official data,
answers by the interviewed persons, and expert evaluations, and is observed as residual,
i.e. difference between total increase of the yield and increase originated due to
rehabilitation of the channel network.
Results and discussion
Research results from the first phase are represented in the report from 2012 that, with the
complete documents, are handed over to the client of the research. This report is mostly
focused to the research results from 2014. Results of previous research are represented
only in the extent, which helps the understanding of the status and changes in the
observed period.



                                                    63
This report primarily displays changes of the yield, costs of production, and finally of
sowing structure. Based on these findings, we evaluated total influence of rehabilitation
of channels to the agricultural production.
Influence of rehabilitation to the yield increase
In order to obtain the answer to these questions, interview persons provided the data on
yields of agricultural crops cultivated by them. In the project area, they mostly cultivate
corn, wheat and sunflower. Changes of the yields are displayed in the following figure.

Figure Error! No text of specified style in document.-1:       Yield changes of plant which are
                mostly cultivated (in %)

 80
 60
 40
 20
  0
                  Maize                        Wheat                       Sunflower

                               Yield (t/ha) changes in % (2013/2012)




On the figure, there are changes displayed based on the calculated average yield for all
areas in which works has been performed. We carried out comparison of the yields in
2013 with the yields of the previous year. Figure visibly shows that the increase of the
yield at the corn is the biggest and it was 72.5 %, followed by wheat 25.8%, and
sunflower 15.9%.
Surveyed persons have been asked to qualitatively evaluate influence of rehabilitation to
the increase of yield. Evaluations were on the scale from one to five, whereat one means
that works significantly influence the increase of the yield and five means very low
influence. Results were displayed on the following figure. One fourth of the person in the
sample think that rehabilitation completely influenced increase of yield, one fifth of them
told that it mostly influenced, and 30% of them that it influenced on the medium level.
Based on the results, we can conclude that contribution of the rehabilitation of channels
towards increase of yields amounts at least 50%, and the other half is to explain due to
influence of other factors.
  Figure Error! No text of specified style in document.-2:       Influence of rehabilitation to the yield
                                                  increase

                                              very           comple
                             poorly          poorly            tely
                              5%              20%             25%


                               on
                            avarage                             mostly
                              30%                                20%


                                                    64
Similar results are obtained on the question „How much rehabilitation influenced to the
solving of the problems of floods and high level of subterranean waters. In terms of
evaluations of influence of rehabilitation to the average increase of yield of all plants,
estimation varied in the interval from 25 % to 30%.
In relation to the previous research, this confirms basic hypothesis that increase of the
yield of all cultivated cultures occurred, whereat amount of increase of the yield in this
second research is higher, and it is at least 25% average for all cultivated plants. This can
be concluded both based on the data on yields for the most important plants, as well as
based on qualitative evaluation of the influence of rehabilitation to the yields, but also
based on the estimation of interviewed persons on general increase of yields after
rehabilitation.
Influence of rehabilitation to the costs
Expected influence of rehabilitation is costs decrease of agricultural production in all
phases from sowing to the harvest. In order to obtain answer to this question, examinees
estimate how much costs were higher prior to rehabilitation, towards the period after
rehabilitation. Answers are displayed in the following figure.

Figure Error! No text of specified style in document.-3:  Estimation of average increase of the
                costs of agricultural productioon (%) due to presence of vulnerability of parcels
                in the vicinity of channels/banks


           Transportation from field to silos
                                  Harvesting
                            Plantprotection
                                Fertilization
                               Crop rotation
                            Cultivated plant
                                Sowing time
                            Land cultivation
                                                0        10        20         30


Due to the presence of vulnerability, increase of costs of agricultural production occurred,
mostly during land cultivation for 27%, while due to untimely sowing or planting costs
were higher for 22 %. Costs of fertilization were higher for 21 % and protection against
weed and pests were higher for approx. 19%.
Regarding previous field research, examinees indicated that after rehabilitation, they have
lower costs. Explanation for such results is two-sided. Firstly, examinees could not
precisely evaluate influence of rehabilitation towards working operations during the first
field research, and the second, based on the approach of research team, they acquired the
confidence and indicated the data which are closer to the reality, without any fear that
their indication could be used for other purposes. Influence of rehabilitation towards costs
of other working operations is estimated on the similar level as at the previous research,
transport 14%, harvest 13% and crop rotation 15%.




                                                    65
Since the highest savings are in the interval from 19 % to 21%, and since interviewed
persons indicated that for the production costs coverage one third of the crop yield is
necessary, estimation would read that indicated savings in costs have the same effect as
well as increase of the yields for some 6,5%. When we sum the effects of yield increase
and reduction of costs, we come up to the conclusion that realized yield increase after
channels rehabilitation amounts 31.5%.
An important question is of expectations in terms of trends of yields. In order to obtain
answers to these questions, examinees replied the questions regarding sales price of the
land and amount of the lease. Basic hypothesis says that increase price of the resources
and increase of the price of lease of resources means expectation of the higher yield of
given resource in the future.
Based on the data, we can see that sales price of the land after rehabilitation increased,
both out of channels in the region for some 150 EUR/ha and in the vicinity of channels
for some 121 EUR/ha. Growth of land prices means that further increase of yields is to be
expected. Lease price is also slightly increased.
The fact that the price of the land increased it is on the behalf of the matter that producers
expect on those parcels their produce to be safer, hence economically feasible. This
directly implies the maintenance of the channel network, as well as the latter one partial
rehabilitation is well done.
The confidence in the functioning of channel network is displayed in the data that before
rehabilitation the majority, some 84 % of examinees, would buy the land by the channel
or in the line out of channels, which is displayed on the following figure, while some
16% would bay a land out of channels. After rehabilitation, almost 100 % of farmers
would like to buy the land close to channels or in the line out, while no one would like to
buy a land out of channels.
Influence of rehabilitation to the change of sowing structure
By improvement of the production conditions, farmers have been stimulated to cultivate
plants which require higher investments, but they also have yields which provide higher
revenues per hectare in relation to classical cultures - wheat and corn. This is confirmed
by the cases of the beginning of cultivation of soya and clover. Change of the sowing
structure indirectly says that further increase of yields occurred. Amount of increase of
the yields is at least equal to the increase of the yields at the traditional cultures, plus risk
and entrepreneur profit. Here we can assume that, by conversion to the yields from basic
cultures, we can calculate that yields of basic cultures increased for further 5%.

Evaluation of total project effects
Based on the collected data according to the results in terms of yields and total
production, we can create three groups of producers, which are represented in the
following table:
         Increase of the
 Group   yields and          Project area
         production
                             Sanitation of the inflow channel CS Kupusina (Municipality of Apatin)
 A       > 25%
                             Cer margin channel (Municipality of Šabac)



                                               66
                              Tovarnik channel (Municipality of Pećinci)
                              Plavna basin (Municipality of Odžaci),
                              Novi Kneževac basin (Municipality of Novi Kneževac),
 B       25%                  Negotin basin (Municipality of Negotin)
 C       < 25 %               Bavanište channel (Municipality of Kovin)



Special case is the regions in which production without functional channel network
would not be possible.
         Increase of the
 Group   yields and           Project area
         production
                              Godomin region (Municipality of Smederevo)
 X       Initial state zero
                              Tamnava, defense against floods (Municipality of Ub)


Group A. This group is consisted of the producers who settle Cer margin channel COK,
CS Kupusina (municipality of Apatin), Tovarnik channel, Plavna basin (municipality of
Odžaci) and Novi Kneževac channel (municipality of Novi Kneževac),
Interviewed producers emphasized that their situation is significantly better and estimated
production increase is between 25 and 50 %. For example, producer from Kupusina
stated that situation is „drastically better“. In Plavna, main channel is built and it
stabilized the water level.
In these areas, significant increase of production is noted, despite the fact that
circumstances were not favorable for agricultural production. In Novi Kneževac occurred
increase of the yields although the land quality by the channel is lower in relation to the
land which is out of channel. Besides, in Novi Kneževac there are no ancillary channels,
thus due to corrugated land there are remaining waters and additional positive effects are
absent.
Group B. In this group we only have area of Negotin basin. Agricultural producers
evaluated carried out works on rehabilitations of channels as very good. Increase of the
yield, is not as in the region marked with „A“, due to the negative influence of external
factors. Namely, the fact is that municipal sewage from Negotin goes to the channel and
after that to Danube River. If we could remove this influence, increase of the yield and
agricultural production would, according to the expectations of the farmers, be up to
50%, thus this region would belong to group „A“.
Group C. This group is one region, Bavanište channel, where the rehabilitation is done
only in central part with the lack of effects towards the area in this region. In the same
time, it is the land with low altitude, thus subterranean waters make appreciable problem
for long-term and stable increase of the yield.
Group X. It is consisted of regions in which agricultural production would not be possible
if channel network was not rehabilitated. Comparison of the yields and production after
rehabilitation in relation to the period prior to rehabilitation provides the result about
infinite increase. Due to such situation, this case is considered extreme, thus observed
individually.



                                                67
Conclusion
Based on the analysis of agricultural production where rehabilitation of channel network
is carried out, we can conclude that increase of the yield occurred, as well as reduction of
production costs and change of the production structure. Research has been carried out
based on the sample of 20 producers from these regions.
Increase of the yields amounts in the average of 25%. His conclusion is derived firstly,
based on the data on the yields for the most important crops, secondly, based on
qualitative evaluation of the influence of rehabilitation towards yields, and finally, based
on the estimation of the interviewed persons on general increase of the yields after
rehabilitation.
Owing to the rehabilitation of the channels, costs of the individual working operations in
agriculture are reduced. Due to the presence of vulnerability, we faced increase of costs
of agricultural production mostly for the land cultivation for 27% and due to untimely
sowing or planting the costs were higher for 22 %. Costs of fertilization were higher for
21 % and protection against weed and pests for 19%. Influence of rehabilitation towards
the costs of other working operations is evaluated on the similar level as at the previous
research, transport 14%, harvest 13% and crop rotation 15%. Since the biggest savings
are in the interval from 19 % to 21%, and since producers indicated that for the coverage
of production costs one third of yields is necessary, estimation would read that indicated
savings in the costs have the same effect as increase of the yields for some 6,5%.
Total effects of the increase of the yields and reduction of costs, converted to the level of
yield increase, we come up to the conclusion that realized increase of the yields after
rehabilitation of channels amounts 31,5%.
In the project area, we come up to the changing of sowing structure. If some agricultural
producer changes sowing structure, he certainly calculates with risks and profit. Here we
can assume that, converted to the yields of basic plants, we can calculate that yields of
basic plunts increased for further 5%.
When we sum total effects, increase of the yields, reduction of costs and changing of
sowing structure, we come up to the total result, measured in the increase of the yields of
36,5%.
If we want to conclude increase of the yields upon project regions, than we derive the
following conclusion:
         Increase higher for 25% in seven regions – including two from “x” group
            where increase is statistically infinite
         increase approximately 25% in one region
         increase approximately 20 % in one region.

Briefly, the largest number of regions noted total increase of the yields which is higher
than 25%. Data from the field show that there were cases where this increase used to be
even double. To conclude, estimated increase may be considered rather pessimistic than
optimistic variant.



                                             68
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    69
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
 Project Preparation Institutional Report.
 Identification Mission Aide Memoire
 Project concept note, QER Minutes.
 Project Appraisal Document, 32379-YF of June 08, 2015
 Project Paper for Additional Finance, 39848-YF of May 25, 2007
 Credit Agreement, 4105-YF , Loan Agreement, 7467-YF
 Country Economic Memorandum, 65845-YF dated January 12, 2012
 Mission Aide memoires, ISRs
 Quarterly Progress Reports issues by the Project Implementation Team
 Project Catalogue of works with illustration of outputs
 International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River, The analysis of the
  Danube Floods, 2006
 Monitoring and Evaluation Field Survey, August, 2011, updated February, 2014.
 Flood Maps of May 17, 2014, and May 23, 2014.




                                          70
                        INSERT

                          MAP

                         HERE



      AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

                 SHOULD BE INSERTED

              MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

   BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




           NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

           the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

       A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                            71
