                                                                                                                 99817
Better Drainage, Less Flooding in Serbia
Mirjana Popovic, Public Information Services Assistant in the
World Bank Belgrade Office, offers this story.
                                                                      Photo Gallery
One-third of Aleksandar Tisma's land used to be too wet to
farm. "Of the 178 hectares that I own, 50 hectares were
practically impossible to cultivate. No machinery could work
on flooded soil," says Tisma, a farmer from small town in
Vojvodina. But since the water that once flooded his wheat
and maize farm is now drained away through a repaired
drainage canal, things have changed. "Now, after the repair
of the canal, I can cultivate that part of my land as well!," he
says.
                                                                      Related Links
                        Tisma is one of many farmers who
                        have reclaimed land and increased             The World Bank in Serbia
                        yields near rivers or canals thanks to        Serbia Irrigation and Drainage
                        repaired drainage canals and                  Rehabilitation Project
                        improved flood protection. Around             Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry
                        Serbia, more than 160,000 hectares            and Water Management
                        have been protected from flooding,
                        and over 300,000 people have
Aleksandar Tisma
                        directly benefitted from the Irrigation and   Drainage Rehabilitation project,
supported by a $75 million World Bank loan.

The project aims to reduce the chances of people losing their lives in floods, and cut down the risk of
damage to land, crops, property and infrastructure. Major floods in 2006 caused much property damage.

                          Angelina Taskovic lives in a two story house with her daughter, son-in-law, and
                          two granddaughters near the Gabrovacka River. The river's embankment was
                          reinforced and heightened.

                          "We feel much safer now, as there is less risk for the river to swell as much
                          when it rains a lot, or when the snow melts quickly, as it happened twice about
                          ten years ago. We feared flooding," Angelina says.

Angelina Taskovic       A recent survey of households in the project area near canals showed that the
                        number of people who had damage on their property from poorly regulated
canals has halved—as compared to the time before the works started. At the same time, 63% of those
interviewed said the works contributed to personal and family safety, and improved their quality of life.

                          Repairing drainage canals does more than reclaim land—it allows farmers to
                          irrigate. Novi Knezevac has too little rain during the year, but parts of the
                          municipality could not be farmed because the neglected irrigation channel was
                          clogged, flooding nearby land. Once the channel was repaired, the land could
                          be farmed and watered.

                          "Yields are higher now," says Ljubomir Savin. "They were 3.5-4 tons before the
                          works, and now are 7 tons. Some farmers have had even higher increases."
Ljubomir Savin
                         Farmers are joining resources to buy irrigation equipment to draw water from
rehabilitated canals. Petar Jancic is looking to the future. He says, "Dikes need to be cleaned regularly.
And if some of the smaller dikes are cleaned as well, we would have a full effect. We could have two
harvests and higher yields every year. We are interested in working with Hungary to better use the Tisa
River."

                          Improved drainage has been completed on about 85,000 hectares. Maintenance
                          of these improved drainage systems will be critical, but although lack of funds is
                          a worry, everyone appreciates the need to keep up this essential agricultural
                    infrastructure.

                    Project coordinator at the Ministry of Agriculture, Dmitar Zakula, says: "During
                    this project, we have started serious deliberations about maintenance. But if
                    there is something we did not expect, it is to see the extent to which our
Petar Jancic        domestic companies have learned and improved through this project's tender
                    processes, and they are now able to compete for both domestic projects, and
projects abroad."

                    Agriculture accounts for about 12% of Serbia's GDP, and slightly less than a
                    quarter of its exports. To be more competitive, including in the European Union
                    markets, farms need to increase productivity and yields. Reducing damage from
                    flooding and increasing irrigation brings Serbian farmers one step closer to that
                    goal. And it increases the safety of those living near river beds and dykes.



Dmitar Zakula
