 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14692

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/13/2015

               Country: Serbia
             Project ID: P087964                                                     Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Irrigation & Drainage          Project Costs (US$M):                      32.68                  71.25
                         Rehabilitation Project
                         (Serbia)
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                      25.00                  71.25
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural          Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.0                    0.0
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                            07/12/2005
                                                                Closing Date:           05/31/2011      03/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (73%); Central government administration (27%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (29%); Water resource management (29%); Natural
                           disaster management (28%); Rural policies and institutions (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David           IEGPS1
                           Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p.p. 5-6) the project’s objectives were to:
"(a) improve the capacity for increased efficiency of agricultural production through support to high priority
rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation infrastructure; (b) reduce the risk of damage from flooding to land, crops,
property, infrastructure as well as reducing risk of life loss from flooding in project areas; and (c) improve water
resources management and strengthen the associated water resource management institutions and policies."

According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA, p. 21 ) the project's objectives were to:
"(a) improve the capacity for increased efficiency of agricultural production through support to high priority
rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation infrastructure; (b) reduce the risk of damage from flooding to land, crops,
property, infrastructure, as well as reducing risk of life loss from flooding in Project areas; and (c) improve water
resources management and strengthen the associated water resource management institutions and policies."

The objectives stated in the PAD and the DCA are identical. This Review will evaluate the project against the following
objectives:
(a) improve the capacity for increased efficiency of agricultural production
(b) reduce the risk of damage from flooding to land, crops, property, infrastructure as well as reducing risk of life loss
from flooding in project areas
(c) improve water resources management and strengthen the associated water resource management institutions and
policies

In 2007, the project received an additional financing amount of US$50 million in IBRD financing. According to the
Project Paper on Additional Financing (p. 7): "the incremental activities would fall entirely under the original second
objective of the project."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  1. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Drainage and Flood Control Infrastructure (Appraisal Cost: US$20.4 million,
Actual Cost: US$60.25 million). Rehabilitation and improvement works would include: (a) rehabilitation of drainage
facilities, including pumps and maintenance equipment; and (b) rehabilitation of flood control defenses to give a 1 in
100 year flood protection for agricultural and minor settlements, and a 1 in 1,000 year protection for large settlements
and industry.
2. Minor Irrigation Development Program (Appraisal Cost: US$6.0 million, Actual Cost; US$2.15 million). This
program would support the development and/or rehabilitation and improvement of minor irrigation schemes mainly in
the hilly regions of Central and Southern Serbia. These schemes would be of less than 300 ha each and total of about
4,000 ha. Selection of areas for the schemes would be based on a set of criteria, chief among them is farmers’
willingness to establish a Water Users Association (WUA) that would bear full costs of the future O&M of the new or
rehabilitated infrastructure. Other technical, environmental and economic considerations would also be taken into
account during the selection process. Project support to build capacity of Directorate of Water (DoW) to provide
technical assistance to the WUAs is included under the Institutional Strengthening Component (Component 3). The
project would also support provision of O&M equipment for the WUAs. Beneficiaries of the minor irrigation schemes
component are expected to contribute 10% of the costs of construction rehabilitation in cash or in kind and 20% of the
costs of O&M equipment that would be provided to them.
 3. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (Appraisal Cost: US$4.9 million, Actual Cost: US$2.00 million).
This component would aim to strengthen the institutional capacity of water sector institutions. It would strengthen
DoW capacity in its regulatory and strategic functions, particularly in the irrigation and drainage sub-sector, and at
field testing of participatory irrigation and drainage management principles under the assumption that only limited
changes in the legal, regulatory and institutional framework would be introduced in Serbia during the project
implementation period. The component would: (a) establish and support a Working Group in the DoW to oversee and
coordinate development of information (including an information database), policy, legal-regulatory, and strategic
innovations for integrated water resources management, especially in the irrigation and drainage sub-sector; (b)
support the Government program to reform the public water authorities and their district water control agencies; (c)
test Water Users Associations type of organizations to provide the institutional basis for ensuring that the construction
or upgrading of several minor irrigation systems (under the Minor Irrigation Development Program in Component 2)
incorporates participatory mechanisms of water management; and (d) pilot test the formation and development of an
irrigation and drainage board in Vojvodina under the assumptions that it would be governed by farmer representatives,
regulated by the government, and financed by farmers. The component would also include provision of various
equipment and studies for other public institutions that have been deemed to be crucial, independently from the
institutional option to be sought by the Government in the medium-term and in the long-term. Specifically, it would: (i)
upgrade the flood forecasting and warning system that has been developed by the Hydrometeorological Service of
Serbia; (ii) support irrigation research for vegetable and horticulture crops; (iii) strengthen the agromet system; (iv)
install and calibrate a software modeling system for control of theDanube-Tisa-Danube canal system hydrosystem;
and (v) study the feasibility requirements for rehabilitating two priority major irrigation schemes.
 4. Project Management and Monitoring (Appraisal Cost: US$ 1.4 million, Actual Cost: US$2.40 million). The project
would provide support to the Government to implement the project. It would include support for: (a) overall project
management, and technical assistance in such areas as detailed design, contract administration and construction
supervision, procurement and financial management, and participatory water management institutions; (b) monitoring
and evaluation of project impacts;(c) implementation of environmental management plans for rehabilitation and
construction activities that would be carried out under the project; and (d) annual financial audit of project accounts

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. At appraisal the estimated project cost was US$32.68 million including US$6.2 million taxes and duties
(PAD, Annex 5). The ICR (Annex 1) reports that the total project costs at completion was US$71.25 million. The
substantial increase was due to scaling up the project on the heels of severe flooding in 2006. The project received an
additional US$50.0 million of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) financing to address
strengthening flood defenses along the Tisa, Danube and Sava rivers. The incremental activities fell entirely under the
original second objective of the project, but in the event some of the additional financing was cancelled.

Financing. The project was expected to receive an IDA credit of US$25.0 million. According to ICR (Annex 1) the
actual amount disbursed from the IDA credit was US$24.70 million (project portal puts the figure at US$24.12 million).
In 2007, the project received an additional financing amount of US$50 million in IBRD financing of which US$46.55
million were disbursed (project portal puts the figure at US$45.39 million). The ICR (Annex 1) noted that at project
closing US$0.87 million in IDA and US$3.65 million in IBRD funds were cancelled. According to the ICR (p. 10) such
cancellations were due to the late contracting of some works towards the end of the project which were eventually not
completed. The project was financed from IDA in SDRs and from the IBRD in Euros leading to some variations in US
Dollar costs due to the changing exchange rates relative to the US Dollar over the life of the project.
Borrower Contribution . At appraisal the borrower and project beneficiaries were expected to contribute US$6.97
million and US$0.73 million respectively (PAD, p. 6). In May 25, 2007, additional financing was approved for the
project and the borrower was expected to contribute US$12.5 million of counterpart funds. At project completion
Borrower and beneficiaries contributed US$3.5 million and US$0.23 million, respectively. The ICR (p.16) notes that
starting from 2009 contracts were fully financed from IBRD funds without counterpart contribution to works contracts.

Dates. The project closed 34 months beyond the expected appraisal closing date. The project closing date was
extended twice, the first extension was in February 2010 where the closing date was extended by two years from May
2011 to May 2013 to allow for the execution of the additional works resulting from the additional financing. The second
extension was in May, 2013 when the project was restructured and closing date was extended by an additional nine
months to accommodate the conclusion of ongoing works and restructuring to align some of the indicators in line with
                                                                th
project execution. The Midterm Review was conducted on the 5 of May, 2009.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
  At project appraisal its three objectives were highly relevant to Serbia's critical needs in irrigation and flood
    protection. In 2005, it was estimated that 1.57 million ha, especially in areas adjacent to the large flood plain
    rivers, were subject to flooding; and about 30% of agricultural land is vulnerable to flooding, as are 512 larger
    settlements, 515 industrial installations, 4,000 km of roads, and 680 km of railways (PAD, p. 3). The project was
    also included in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2005-2007 where it was expected to support
    the medium-term CAS goal of creating a larger, more dynamic private sector by enhancing the security of the
    agricultural sector and improving the capacity for growth in the sector. The project was also expected to
    contribute to the CAS objective of reducing poverty by increasing employment and income generation.

    At project completion objectives remained highly relevant. It contributed to the overall objective of the FY12-FY15
     Serbia Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for sustainable budgeting of public resources through the project's
     support of the water framework law to help define clear institutional and financing responsibilities. In addition, the
     project has the potential to contribute to overall efficiency and optimization of budget resources through
     supporting regulations for more direct involvement of water users in water management at farm level. Finally, the
     threat of floods is likely to continue given climate variations in the region that includes periods of drought followed
     by periods of intense rainfall (ICR, page 21).

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
  Design includes an overall clear statement of objectives that describes the intended actions and refers to
    beneficiaries of the project intervention. However, the wording of the first objective was somewhat unclear and
    the Results Frame did not include clear links between the inputs, outputs and intended outcomes. In a further
    communication, the project team explained that the first objective was referring to increasing agriculture
    productivity at the field level. Nevertheless, the PAD (Annex 4) included a detailed description of project activities.
    To achieve the first objective, the design would support the development and/or rehabilitation and improvement
    of minor irrigation schemes mainly in the hilly regions of Central and Southern Serbia combined with capacity
    building to the Directorate of Water to provide assistance to Water User Associations. The first objective would
    also benefit from the rehabilitation of the drainage network supported by the project. To achieve the second
    objective, the design would support the rehabilitation and Improvement of drainage and flood control
    infrastructure to provide better flood protection to agriculture lands, populated and industrial areas. To achieve
    the third objective design would support strengthening the institutional capacity of water sector institutions,
    including the capacity of the Directorate of Water in its regulatory and strategic functions, particularly in the
    irrigation and drainage sub-sector, and at field testing of participatory irrigation and drainage management
    principles.
  Design could have benefitted from more attention to O&M arrangements to ensure proper maintenance of project
    investments. Also, the institutional reform is closely tied to the adoption and implementation of the water
    framework law. This proved to be a challenging and lengthy process. Alternatively, the adoption and
    implementation of the law could have been a condition for effectiveness.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  (a) "Improve the capacity for increased efficiency of agricultural production " is rated modest.

Outputs:
    The project supported establishing minor irrigation schemes and provided infrastructure on 17 sites comprising
     1600 ha (target: 4000 ha) for 7 water user associations compared to a target of 30 sites. The ICR (p. iv) highlights
     that the target was not achieved due to lower funding amounts and delays with the water user associations
     legislation.
    As a result of project activities an area of 105,525 ha of arable land benefited from combined drainage and flood
     protection infrastructure compared to an original target of 247,000 ha.

Outcome:
  The flood embankments constructed and/or rehabilitated by the project contributed to reducing water logging and
    improved drainage in project areas, however, the project achieved only 42% of the targeted area at appraisal.
    The ICR (p. 16) attributes the shortcoming in achieving the original target for improved drainage to the fact that
    contracts starting from 2009 were fully financed from IBRD without counterpart contribution to works contracts
    and reallocation of sites by the Government.
  As a result of improved drainage in project areas, the planting conditions for crops were improved due to a
    reduction in hard plow pans resulting from repeated plowing under extremely wet conditions and reduced water
    logging. This, combined with better water management, reduced farm production costs by 13 to 27 % depending
    on the region and crop compared to an original target of 10%. Better water management also allows for longer
    cropping season and higher cropping intensity compared to wet conditions. Overall, the project funded works
    would have a positive impact on agriculture productivity, however, it fell short on achieving a number of targets as
    mentioned above.

(b) "Reduced the risk of damage from flooding to land , crops, property, infrastructure as well as reducing risk of life
loss from flooding in project areas " is rated substantial.

Outputs
  By project completion the total area protected against flooding totaled 440, 086 ha compared to a revised target
    of 500,000 ha and an original target of 56,000 ha.
  The project supported rehabilitating/rebuilding 135 km of flood protection embankments compared to a revised
    target of 95 km and an original target of 9 km.
  As a result of flood prevention works supported by the project 1.1 million people (revised target: 1.8 million and
    original target: 0.25 million) and 440,086 ha (90% percent of target) composed of residential and agrarian land
    are now effectively protected from floods.
Outcomes
  According to the ICR (p.15), the quality of the works delivered by the project was tested in recent floods (May
    2014) and no failures were detected. Overall, the project funded works and flood control infrastructure which
    helped protect project areas including cities, agriculture land and infrastructure.
  The results of a beneficiary survey conducted in 2011 (before the project was extended and with a number of
    works still incomplete, and it primarily focused on the benefits stemming from improved drainage and flood
    control works) revealed that 51% of the interviewees were satisfied with the project works compared to 26% at
    the beginning of the project. 80% of interviewees were of the opinion that risks from water damage were low or
    very low, 10% that they were medium, and another 10% that they are high or very high (ICR, p. 49).

(c) The extent to which the project improved water resources management and strengthened the associated water
resource management institutions and policies modest.

Outputs
  By project completion 17 specialists from the Directorate of Water attended training and study tours compared to
    an original target of 16 (Intermediate Outcome Indicator 4); 90 farmers (target :90) attended an environmental
    awareness program and 17 Water Users Association were fully established compared to a target of 30
    (Intermediate Outcome Indicator 3).
  By project completion a Doppler radar was operational in order to improve hydrometry and flood forecast
    (Intermediate Outcome Indicator 6).
  In 2010 a Water framework Law was adopted (Intermediate Outcome Indicator 7), however, implementation is
    yet to be seen and legislation for the regulation of WUAs is being reviewed by the parliament, but has not been
    adopted yet.
Outcome
  Capacity building at DoW did not take place as envisioned at appraisal and capacity building was mostly limited
    to the project implementation unit.
  The project also supported updating the hydrometerological services leading to improved weather and flood
    forecasting capability. This was achieved through adopting a modern Doppler radar technology that helps
    services with monitoring precipitation and determining river water levels in real time, hence, enabling better
    forecast precision and allowing an overall better response time and optimum management of flood control
    structures.
5. Efficiency:
 Financial and Economic Efficiency
Ex ante
The PAD (Annex 9) included a detailed economic benefit / cost analyses for Drainage Rehabilitation, Flood Protection
and the Minor Irrigation Development Program. The results of each analysis indicate high economic viability of the
proposed project interventions. Conventional cost benefit analyses based on crop budgets for the without and with
project scenarios were carried out for each scheme, for the totality of drainage areas in Vojvodina and those in Central
Serbia and a discount rate of 12% over a period of 20 years. The Economic Rate of Return was estimated to range
from 40% to 46%. Flood control had an overall estimated rate of return of 74%. Minor irrigation development activity
had an estimated ERR ranging from 20% to 30%. The high level of the rates of returns of these components suggest
that the project is also overall economically viable even without incorporating the costs and the benefits of institutional
and technical capacity building interventions supported under Component 3, the latter of which are inherently difficult
to estimate. Sensitivity analyses of the economic rates of return to variations in main assumptions indicate that the
results are robust. The PAD does not provide an overall ERR for the project.

Ex post
The ICR followed the same methodology and assumptions as applied in the PAD and adjusted for the additional
financing. For flood protection and drainage activities (which became the main focus of the project after receiving
additional financing) the analysis was based on using the flood control damage loss avoidance estimates and the
value added from increased agricultural productivity in the arable land areas that would benefit from the new
infrastructure. It estimated an Economic Rate of Return of 36% and Net Present Value (NPV) of US$130.00 million at
a discount rate of 12% over 20 years. According to the ICR (p. 18) "the annual expected flood damage that would be
avoided with the undertaking of the flood control and river bank reconstruction/rehabilitation under the project with AF
was estimated to be US$ 48.00 million." The investments under the minor irrigation development program were
significantly delayed and only two of the sites identified at appraisal participated in the program while the remaining
sites had the infrastructure completed by the end of 2013. Such delay made it difficult to verify cropping patterns as
well as the main elements of economic benefits for such sites. The areas developed under the project totaled 570 ha
at a cost of about US$2.5 million or roughly US$4,372 per ha. The analysis estimated an Economic Rate of Return of
25% for the minor irrigation development program. The ICR analysis provided no overall ERR for the project.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
Project was approved in July 2005, but became effective in March 2006 due to staffing delays at the project
implementation unit. The project closed beyond the appraisal estimate by about 34 months. This delay was partially to
accommodate additional financing of the project that was accompanied by an increase in project scope. Despite the
project's extension, a sum of US$3.65 million and about US$0.87 million were cancelled from the IBRD Loan and IDA
credit, respectively. The cancellation of these amounts was due to the late contracting of some works that were
eventually not completed by the closing date.

On balance, efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was rated high and relevance of design was rated substantial (see section 3). Efficacy of
the first objective was rated modest because the project fell short in meeting its targets, but achievements are
expected to have an overall positive impact on agriculture productivity. Efficacy of the second and most important
objective of flood control and protection of infrastructure in cities and agriculture land was rated substantial. The
efficacy of flood control was put to the test during the May 2014 floods where no failures were detected in project
funded works. Efficacy of the third objective was rated modest due to concerns about the implementation of the water
framework Law and capacity building activities at the Directorate of Water did not take place as envisioned. Efficiency
was rated substantial. Overall the project’s outcome had minor shortcomings.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory
 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    The sustainability of the project's development outcome will be dependent on the availability of financial resources
to cover O&M expenditures of the rehabilitated flood protection and control infrastructure. Although the water
framework law provides the basis for a functional institutional system in the water sector, application of the water law
needs to be effectively implemented on the ground. Establishing long term arrangements for O&M is important to
ensure a functioning flood control infrastructure, however, such arrangements remain unclear. Also, modification to
the draft water framework law weakened institutional mandates defined in the law including the required budgeting
and long term financial commitment to the sector. This was clearly demonstrated during the May 2014 floods when
the water management institutions were unable to adequately coordinate management and controls over the systems
to minimize the flooding (ICR, p. 14). The ICR (p. 23) highlights the limited total financial resources and tight budget
allocated for maintenance of water infrastructure in the country which suggests significant risks for sustainability.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   At the request of the Government of Serbia, the Bank prepared an operation that responded to the
Government's priorities in the water sector including institutional reforms in the regulatory and legal framework.
  The project was prepared within a year by an experienced team including irrigation experts and supported by
    safeguard and fiduciary specialists. Initial project funding was supposed to be through an IDA credit worth
    US$75 million, however, this was scaled back to US$25.00 million due to lack of IDA funds and reservations
    on the absorption capacity of the country at the time. Despite such concern, in 2007 the project received
    US$50 million in additional financing on the heels of major floods that affected the country in 2006.
  Project design benefitted from the experience of projects in Macedonia which shared a similar institutional
    and economic history with Serbia. Also, the experience of ongoing projects in Central Asia emphasized the
    need of users’ involvement early in the project design and engagement in a partnership between users and
    providers for successful irrigation and drainage development (ICR, p. 8).
  The project's initial design suffered from a lack of clarity on whether the project's primary focus was irrigation
    and drainage or flood protection. Design also lacked clear separation between the two types of infrastructure
    that were to be funded by the project. Such lack of clarity impacted the results framework which reflected
    mostly engineering outcomes and minimal agrarian indicators.
  After the additional financing, it became evident that the main focus of the project would be on flood
    protection. Such protection was expected to improve agronomic characteristics and reduce flooding to
    residential /industrial and commercial areas. However, the additional financing document suffered from
    unclear allocation of funding by components and lack of precision in determining baselines and expected
    outputs from investments. This eventually negatively impacted the assessments of project outcomes (ICR, p.
    24).
  Project suffered from a delay of 9 months (July 2005 to March 2006) due to staffing delays at the project
    Implementation Unit.
  During project preparation, several risks were identified including implementing institutional reforms at the
    regulatory level and organizing users and formation of user association where both were rated substantial.
  The definition of M&E indicators lacked consistency across various documents, for example, indicators were
    where not exactly formulated in the same fashion in the results framework of the PAD, compared to the
    Supplemental Letter No. 2 of the Credit Agreement. Also, some target figures and final quantities to be
    achieved were not carefully assessed in some cases such as the population to be protected which was over
    stated.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project received regular supervision visits and benefitted from team continuity where at least one team
member followed the project from inception to completion. The project also benefitted from decentralized
supervision through the country office which provided regular input and continuous support and trouble-shooting
by the TTL. The supervision team included an adequate skill mix to manage the project and effectively address
implementation issues. The TTL's experience in civil engineering contributed to ensuring environmental safeguard
compliance at different sites. The project's Aide Memoires covered technical implementation issues as well as
fiduciary and safeguard compliance. Supervision should have acted earlier to address M&E concerns and more
attention should have been given to setting targets at the additional financing stage.
   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    At project preparation a reform minded government was keen on pushing an aggressive reform agenda to
modernize the economy and government institutions. However, there was significant resistance to reform within
government institutions and socially owned private bodies. The ICR (p. 1) highlights that following the project
approval, the political climate changed after elections and it became evident that reform would be difficult. In
addition, the lack of continuity at the Ministry of Agriculture, where six Ministers of Agriculture were appointed
during the course of project implementation, negatively impacted the project due to different political allegiances
and conflicting interests. Specifically, there were delays with the adoption of the water framework law and
subsequent WUA legislation proved challenging due to the lack of a uniform vision with regular changes of top
level officials. The lack of support at the ministerial level was compensated through the composition of a well
regarded specialists to manage the project. Finally, the ICR (p. 37) reports that there was an agreement with the
Government to drop US$16.5 million of counterpart funds due to the economic crisis experienced in 2008. The
ICR (p. 10) highlighted that project implementation "was also heavily affected by the financial crisis which left the
country challenged in meeting its fixed obligations related to social benefits and its overall budgetary envelope. In
response to this situation the project dropped its cofinancing requirements in 2008 and thus reduced the overall
investment envelope and consequently the scope of outputs.”

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture. Implementation benefitted from the engineering
experience of the head of the implementation team. The project implementation team provided effective technical
know-how and ensured fiduciary compliance. The project also benefitted from the presence of engineers with
international experience among the implementation team. The ICR (p. 25) highlights that the project
implementation unit "successfully handled numerous works sites and contracts with proper attention to build
quality and local concerns." The down side of the independent project implementation unit is the lack of capacity
and knowledge transfer to the Ministry of Agriculture and Directorate of Water with regards to developing
schedules for works, procurement and contract management including ensuring quality assurance and holding
contractors accountable. This lack of capacity transfer could potentially weigh on the overall project performance
after completion and dissolution of the project implementation unit.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Results framework (PAD, Annex 3) includes three main outcome indicators geared towards capturing the
achievement of project objectives. These three outcome indicators were to be measured through 17
output/intermediate outcome indicators. Overall, the set of indicators adequately capture activities supported by the
project and reflect what the projects intend to achieve on the ground. The ICR (p. 11) highlights that the definition of
the indicators reflected a lack of consistency between the various documents, for example, indicators are formulated
differently in the PAD compared to Supplemental Letter No. 2 of the Credit Agreement. After the additional financing,
the target of some indicators was increased, specifically the second outcome indicator “increased area protected
against flooding” was increased from 56,340 ha to half a million ha while the population protected from floods would
increase from a quarter million to 1.8 million people. However, the population target was over stated and did not take
into account population changes that involved movement from rural areas to the cities due to the collapse of some
industries after market reforms (ICR, p. 12).
Design suffered from the lack of a detailed baseline data to provide accurate information before setting targets.
Finally, in 2013 the project was restructured and according to the ICR (p. 12) some indicators were dropped,
reworded, and streamlined to reflect implementation progress on the ground. Specifically, some quantitative values
were adjusted to reflect areas covered by the project and correct overestimations of some indicators at the time of
additional financing. Overall, the PAD included scant details on M&E arrangements.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   A baseline study was prepared in 2007 (two years after Board approval and one year after effectiveness) and
updated in late 2011 and a beneficiary survey was also conducted towards the end 2011. M&E activities included data
collection for progress in engineering works which were compared with topographical and flood maps to determine the
actual areas and population protected. Such information was then updated into the results framework.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The ICR (p. 12) reports that the data collected were used to determine the achievement of project objectives.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was rated Category B. It triggered two safeguard policies, Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50).
Environment
An Environmental Assessment (EA) was prepared for the project as a part of the Framework Environmental Impact
Study. In addition, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was also prepared for each construction site and
mitigating measures integrated as part of bidding document and contracting arrangements. Supervising engineers
were required to ensure contractors implemented the plans. To address OP7.50, the Bank notified Bulgaria and
Romania, where the Danube flows into the Black Sea, and Serbia obtained no objections to the project plans from
both countries.
Social
A social assessment was prepared for the project in consultation with the various municipalities and settlements
including representatives of civil society. Surveys were also conducted to collect opinions of the affected population
which according to the ICR (p. 13) were generally positive. The ICR (p, 13) also highlights that field visits to project
sites and discussions with some beneficiaries indicate that they were consulted and infrastructure designs were
amended to take into account community concerns and suggestions.

Overall there were "no serious safeguards issues arose during implementation (ICR, p. 13)".

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . Interim financial reports (IFRs) were submitted on time to the World Bank and were assessed
to be reliable. Annual financial statements were audited by eligible auditors and the audit reports were submitted on
time in most cases. According to the ICR (p. 13) financial management was rated satisfactory or moderately
satisfactory throughout the project implementation period.

Procurement. The ICR reports (p. 13) that procurement was rated satisfactory and highly satisfactory for the last two
years of the project. It also highlights that the project was one of the best projects in the Serbia portfolio in terms of
procurement quality and contract management. No incidence of misprocurement were reported.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None.

d. Other:
None.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                Satisfactory            Relevance of objectives and design
                               Satisfactory                                      were rated, respectively, high and
                                                                                 substantial . Efficacy of the second and
                                                                              most important objective flood control
                                                                              infrastructure development helped
                                                                              protect project areas including cities,
                                                                              agriculture land and infrastructure.
                                                                              Other objectives were rated modest.
                                                                              Efficiency was, however, rated
                                                                              substantial for the core flood control
                                                                              activities as well as for the irrigation
                                                                              infrastructure rehabilitation.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR includes four lessons and the following three are emphasized with some adaptation of language:

    Making project support or components dependent on the adoption of certain legislation presents distinct
     timing risks. The formulation or amendment of laws is a political process where the Bank can only have a
     limited influence and will essentially be governed by local politics. This is true even when the government
     recognizes the need for legal amendments, but reforms might be opposed by a number of interest groups that
     rely on the status quo to maintain their position.
     Realistic time estimates are needed to fully develop design documents and obtain related permits which are
     prerequisite to smooth project implementation. Countries that have reasonably functional land use and
     cadaster maps as well as building regulations and permit requirement need significant amounts of time and
     coordination of efforts to get permits and documentation approved and verified by the competent authorities
     before works can commence.
    Project implementation needs to be flexible to maximize project impacts . The flexibility in approach to
     accommodate parallel financing, on site selection; and responding to farmers needs rather than strictly pushing
     the project design helps in achieving concrete results on the ground.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides a thorough account of the project activities and reports candidly on most shortcomings. It includes
four lessons that reflect the experience of the project and three of them could potentially apply to other operations.
The discussion of the project outcomes would have benefited from focusing on the objectives directly rather than
components. The ICR also includes a robust economic analysis that adequately covers project activities. Overall, the
ICR provides a logical discussion of project achievements and reasonable justification for most of the assigned
ratings.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
