Document of                  FIL               COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2424-IND
REPORT AND RECOMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTMTIONA.L DEVELOMT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
December 7, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its otnts may not otberwise be disclosed withot World Blank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
US$1          - Rp 415
Rp 1          - US$0.0024
Rp 1 million - US$2,410
Rp 1 billion - US$2,410,000
GLOSSARY
Bappenas      -  National Planning Agency
DEC           - Department of Education and Culture
DGHE          - Directorate General for Higher Education within the DEC
INPRES        - Local public works program
ITB           -  Institute of Technology at Bandung
ITS           -  Institute of Technology at Surabaya
LAN           -  National Institute of Administration
Repelita      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84)
SarJana       -  Five-year degree program
Sarjana muda  -  Three-year degree program
STAN          -  State School for Government Accountants (Sekolah Tinggi
Akuntansi Negara) within the Ministry of Finance
TEDC          -  Technician Education Development Center
UMDP          -  Unit for Management of Diploma Programs in the DGHE
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 /b
/a  The rupiah was devalued on November 15, 1978 from Rp 415 to the equivalent
of Rp 625 to the US dollar. The project was appraised and negotiated on
the basis of Rp 415 and the figures estimated in this report are based
on this exchange rate.
/b July 1-June 30 as of July 1979



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                 $49 million
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The objective of the project is to help the Govern-
ment meet the growing demand for engineering techni-
cians in the fields of civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering and for accountants. The project would
introduce a new system (polytechnics) for training
these technicians at diploma level by establishing a
Technician Education Development Center and six poly-
technics in Java and Sumatera; and improve the quality
of accountancy training by establishing four accountancy
development centers. In addition, the project would
provide technical assistance in instructor training,
materials development, education planning and management,
manpower analysis, education-related research and
project performance monitoring. The output of the
polytechnics would constitute an increase of 45% in the
output of trained technicians and meet about 12% of
estimated annual requirements for additional trained
technicians over the period 1986-1990. By 1981, the
accountancy training development centers would provide
upgrading for nearly 1,300 accountancy instructors and
practitioners every year. There is a risk that an
adequate number of qualified staff would not be
readily recruited for the polytechnics on a full-time
basis.  To avoid this risk, intensive preservice and
in-service training would be provided. Also, experi-
enced part-time staff would be employed as required.
Estimated Cost:                           Local       Foreign       Total
- --------($ milllion)--------
Technician training             34.8        24.4           59.2
Accountancy training             3.3         1.9            5.2
Planning and Management          3.5        12.1           15.6
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Total Base Cost                          41.6        38.4            80.0
Contingencies
Physical                         4.2         3.8             8.0
Price                            9.0         7.0            16.0
Total Project Cost               54.8        49.2           104.0
Financing:               The proposed credit of $49 million would cover the
foreign exchange component or 47% of the total project
cost.  The remainder ($55 million) would be provided
by the Government through budgetary allocations.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY          1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-------------- ($ million)--------------
Annual           0.3    0.7    6.5   18.0   12.5   11.0
Cumulative       0.3    1.0    7.5   25.5   38.0   49.0
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 2125c-IND dated December 7, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $49 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Polytechnic Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Devel-
opments, Short-Term Prospects and Development Issues," of April 26, 1978
(2026-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1978. A
new Basic Economic Report which is currently being finalized will be submitted
to the Executive Directors in the next few months.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-1973/74),/1
the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed. Transport,
power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after years of
neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural output expanded
at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of modern industry -
fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period, GNP realized an
annual 9% growth and gross domestic investment increased rapidly, rising
from 9% to 19% of GNP.
4.        With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), and with rehabilitation virtually completed the Government began
to emphasize a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in these respect3 has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts has been focused on short-
term issues, the rate of economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and
public concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first
two years of the Plan were dominated by developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. In
most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis well. However
the episode seriously strained the Government's budgetary resources and
Indonesia's balance of payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign
exchange reserves. The following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) wit-
nessed a substantial improvement in the balance of payments. The rate of
/1 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



domestic inflation also declined. During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports
recovered strongly (following improvements in the world economy), and rose
to a higher level than anticipated. These trends continued into 1977/78,
and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange reserves,
which have averaged well over $2 billion (or about four months of imports)
since early 1977.
5.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues
together with continued restraint on current expenditures enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 11%.
6.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.2 trillion (or about
$5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 20.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; in the first four years of Indonesia's Second
Development Plan (1974/75-1977/78) the annual rate of growth of GNP, at
slightly less than 7% has, in fact, been slower than that in the First Plan
period. The world recession, slackening agricultural output and domestic
inflation (which made some domestic industries uncompetitive with imports),
all had a dampening effect on the growth of the economy. In addition, public
investments in recent years have been concentrated on relatively capital-
intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods.
Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments in such
sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc., depends on the growth in
demand which in turn is determined by-the growth of the rest of the economy,
mainly the private sector, which has failed to provide the necessary momentum
to growth. The indications are that private investment rose only modestly
in recent years for a number of reasons, including the Government's attempts
to control domestic inflation and to encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors,
and the uncertain state of the world economy.
7.        Between 1961 and 1971, the population of Indonesia grew by 2.1%
annually; with high fertility rates, increasing longevity and an age distri-
bution heavily weighted towards the younger groups, there was a widespread



expectation that growth would further accelerate, and reach at least 2.3% over
the 1971-1976 period. Yet the Inter-Censal Population Survey of March 1976
has revealed that the growth rate was actually reduced to 2.0% and that
Indonesia's population stood at 131.3 million in March 1976, about 4 million
less than had been expected. Further declines in mortality may actually
raise the growth rate once again, but there is now hope that the population
will reach 200 million only in the late 1990s - later than even the lowest
earlier projection.
8.        The most outstanding and encouraging feature to emerge from recent
data was a marked decline in fertility levels in Java and Bali. The total
fertility rate for Java and Bali declined from 5.3 in 1971 to 4.9 in 1976, a
drop of almost 10%. The National Family Planning Program, which began in
1970 and enjoys strong political backing and support from major religious and
other private organizations, is believed to be an important reason for the
fertility decline. The program was extended to the ten most populous provinces
in the other islands in 1974/75. Fertility rates in the other islands have
also fallen - from 6.3 to 6.1 between 1971 and 1976 - but the decline is less
pronounced. Mortality rates also differ markedly. Life expectation in the
other islands is 47 years as against 49 years in Java. Moreover, the gap
itself appears to be widening, although mortality rates are diminishing
everywhere.
9.        Information on employment and wages is incomplete and not very
reliable but there are indications that the growth in opportunities for
gainful employment has about kept pace with the growth of the labor force
since 1970. Real wages do not seem to have fallen. This is encouraging,
since many of the changes that are taking place in agricultural production
and processing techniques, including improved transportation, mechanical rice
hulling, etc., are of a labor saving nature. It is evident that farming on
Java is increasingly becoming a part-time activity, that landlessness is
becoming more common and that a growing proportion of Java's rural population
is primarily or exclusively dependent on the sale of their labor to earn an
income. The need for greater emphasis on the promotion of labor-intensive
export industries and the development of small and medium-scale rural indus-
tries deserves high priority in the formulation of future development plans.
10.       Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years has been the
slowdown in the rate of growth of agricultural production, particularly of
rice. For 1977, rice production was estimated at 15.9 million tons, about the
same as the previous year, and almost 10% below the Second Plan target for
that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept stable only by means of
very substantial imports. In 1976/77 rice imports amounted to 1.6 million
tons and in 1977/78 they reached 2.3 million tons, or over 12% of domestic
consumption and more than 25% of total world trade in rice. The stagnation
in rice output in 1976/77 and 1977/78 is primarily the result of successive
droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown planthopper) infestation. Although
the preliminary indications for 1978/79 suggest a very good harvest with
a 10% increase of both dry and wet season rice output over 1977/78, it is
clear that long-term expansion of food crop production and a substantial
reduction in rice imports, require prompt assessment of available land and



- 4 -
water resources, accelerated construction of irrigation and drainage facil-
ities, acceleration in land settlement and transmigration programs based on
food crop production and, most importantly, expansion and strengthening of
agricultural support services, particularly for non-rice food crops. Given
the magnitude of this task, the Government is not anticipating an agricultural
growth rate of much more than 3.5% per year in the Third Plan period (1979/80-
1983/84).
11.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of a large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of 1976, together
with a hardening of average terms during those years, had raised the level
of debt service payments which are now expected to reach about $1.5 billion
in 1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $3.2 billion in 1976 and to $1.9 billion in
1977. Most of the decline was achieved through a reduction in commercial
borrowing. This means that average loan terms have recently begun to soften
again, which will be reflected in future debt service payments.
12.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and the Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.75 billion in 1978/79, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978, the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approximately
met.
13.       As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $500 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached. At the same time, there is a growing doubt that
crude oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 mil-
lion barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling which declared the oil revenues withheld
by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime no large new oil fields have been discovered, and, although
the Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.
14.       The overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts indicates
that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer over the coming years, Indonesia
would be able to finance essential imports of consumer, intermediate and
capital goods and still meet its debt service obligations. However, the
relative decline in oil revenues will have serious budgetary consequences.
Although the November 15 rupiah devaluation (para. 16 below) will provide a
one time revenue increase, the Government will need to raise substantial
additional non-oil revenues over the coming years, if the relatively high
rate of domestic investment already reached is to be maintained. The Govern-
ment has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there
does not appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in
fact, rise in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable
growth in Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant
part of which is development related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's
efforts to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is
likely to be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
15.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and has made them the focus
of the Third Development Plan, due to commence in April 1979 and currently
under preparation by the Government. In a parallel and supportive effort,
the Bank staff are currently finalizing a Basic Economic Report which will
review the major development problems facing Indonesia, covering in depth
such issues as domestic and foreign resource mobilization, as well as trends
and outlook for agricultural growth, industrialization, population, employ-
ment, and income distribution. This report will be ready in early 1979.
16.       On November 15, 1978, the Rupiah was devalued from Rp 415 to
Rp 625 to the US dollar. Simultaneously, the link between the US dollar and
the Rupiah was replaced by a link with a basket of currencies of Indonesia's
major trading partners. It is expected that this rate adjustment will
facilitate the promotion of non-oil export growth, especially labor-intensive
exports. The adjustment will also ease the present local currency revenue
constraints (para. 14 above) facing the Government. To prevent the possibility
of an upturn in domestic inflation eroding the benefits of this devaluation,
supportive measures will be introduced domestically. The timing of this
adjustment, just prior to Repelita III, at a point when Indonesia's reserves
are healthy and following an excellent rice harvest, was most opportune. It
is too early, however, to assess the full economic implications of this
drastic rate adjustment.



- 6 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.      As of October 31, 1978 Indonesia has received 39 IDA credits total-
ling $630.8 million and 35 Bank loans amounting to $1,772.0 million; IFC
investments have totalled $61.3 million.  The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977
was about 8% and the share of debt service, about 1.8%. By the end of 1978,
these ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as
of October 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, a major effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has also financed urban development, through neighborhood
improvement programs, urban water supplies and family planning and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through four technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
19.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing
labor force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops.
Efforts to increase employment through programs directed towards improving
the incomes of the poor and their living standards are expected to be one of
the major objectives of the Third Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84) which is
now at the final stage of preparation. The work of the Basic Economic Mission
(para. 15) is designed to assist the Government in formulating a coherent
set of programs and policies to achieve these objectives.  While several of
these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will
be some time before they are ready for implementation. However, as part of
this new focus, a small enterprise development project, designed to increase
nonagricultural employment in rural areas and small towns, has already been



- 7 -
approved by the Executive Directors, and an integrated rural development
project has been appraised and should be ready for presentation to the Execu-
tive Directors this fiscal year. With respect to agriculture development,
projects that are being prepared are designed to further improve and expand
research and extension services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems,
help replant smallholder rubber and coconut plantations, assist in watershed
management and village development, and develop presently under-utilized land
in areas outside Java for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition
to the population program, which continues to have high priority, other areas
of particular importance for Bank Group assistance will be improvement of
urban services through construction of urban water supply systems and further
expansion of neighborhood improvement programs, and improvement and expansion
of higher education particularly of engineers, accountants and agriculture
specialists, as well as primary and nonformal education. Finally, Bank Group
financing continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastruc-
ture rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which
will continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development. Compared to past
lending activities, many of these projects and programs reflect the shift of
emphasis in Government's development objectives from rehabilitation and
expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and employment oriented
economic growth strategy.
20.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968 and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has saved
and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, it now appears, however,
that both the budgetary and balance of payments situations are again likely
to become more difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has
always qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low
per capita income ($300 in 1977)/1 and the quality of its economic management,
such terms are now also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of
investment without impairing its ability to service its external debt.
Accordingly, starting in FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia
has been provided again on IDA terms.
21.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has financed, from time to time,
part of the local cost of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution
to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia now faces
a more difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's efforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are
likely to increase very slowly, if at all. At the same time, the Government
is attempting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employ-
ment-creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture
/1 Based on Rp 415 = US$1.0.



- 8 -
and the social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency.
The Bank Group cannot provide adequate assistance to the Government's overall
development effort if it limits its financing to the foreign exchange cost of
projects. It is therefore proposed that Bank Group lending should include a
portion of the local costs particularly in the case of projects designed to
create nonfarm employment and raise agriculture production.
22.       The proposed Credit is the first lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects for agricultural training,
rubber replanting, rural and urban development, transmigration, irrigation,
development finance company (BAPINDO), water supply, technical assistance,
road betterment and power are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next several months.
PART III - THE HIGHER EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
Overview of Issues in Higher Education
23.       An overriding issue in higher education is the insufficient supply
of technical manpower, particularly middle-level technicians, to implement
development programs efficiently and effectively. Institutions of higher
education have been unable to meet the demand for technical manpower generated
by investments under Indonesia's Development Plans. This shortfall in output
of higher level technical manpower has increasingly become a constraint on the
effective execution of development programs in the public and private sectors.
Estimates for 1980-1990 suggest that demand for tertiary manpower in technical
and managerial fields would increase by 9% p.a. for graduate engineers, 10%
p.a. for technician level engineers and 10% p.a. for accountants. The present
output of higher technical graduates cannot meet these demands. Two factors
account for this low output. The first is persistent underfinancing of higher
education. Expenditures on higher education amounted to only 5% of total
education expenditures in 1976 compared with about 15-20% in most Asian
countries. Low per student expenditures, in turn, have led to problems of
quality as a result of underqualified staff, inadequate teaching materials and
limited training facilities.  These factors have contributed to low internal
efficiency, as indicated by high repeater and dropout rates among students.
The annual output of graduates at the degree level represents only 5% of
university enrollments compared with a rate of 20% under conditions of full
efficiency. The second major factor accounting for low output of technical
manpower from higher education is an imbalance between the diploma level
(Grade 15) and degree level (Grade 17+). Expenditures and enrollments
have been concentrated at the degree level. Degree programs in engineering
account for 80% of total enrollments but manpower requirements suggest that
enrollments at the middle (diploma) level should be at least equal to those at
degree level. An urgent need, therefore, is to develop the system for training
technicians at the diploma level in engineering fields.



-9-
Structure
24.       Tertiary schooling involves various levels of training and types of
institutions. Degree programs are designed to be completed in either five
years or three years (intermediate level) and are given at universities,
institutes and teacher training colleges. Diplomas are awarded upon success-
ful completion of two- or three-year courses at academies and other postsec-
ondary schools. Technical training is provided in each type of institution.
Administration and Planning
25.       Higher education and training are provided by many Government
agencies; overall authority rests with the Directorate General for Higher
Education (DGHE) in the Department of Education and Culture (DEC).
Registered private institutions are loosely administered by the DGHE, but
other institutions operate without Government supervision. Administrative
effectiveness of the DGHE is further reduced by the wide geographic disper-
sion and autonomy of these institutions. Within institutions, faculties enjoy
substantial autonomy, which results in duplication of administration ser-
vices, courses, facilities and research.
26.       In general, planning, evaluation and related research for the higher
education subsector have been limited. An improved information base is essen-
tial for strengthening planning and management of higher education. Informa-
tion is needed to determine requirements (and thereby types and levels of
supplier institutions) by region in line with local development priorities.
Improved planning and management should further focus on: systematic evalua-
tion and monitoring of ongoing programs and projects; analysis of the extent
and causes of internal inefficiencies; improved definition of responsibilities
among agencies responsible for higher education; and better coordination among
training programs.
Enrollments
27.       In 1976 about 285,000 students (2% of the relevant age cohort) were
enrolled in some 120 public and 340 private postsecondary institutions.
Enrollments were concentrated in the social sciences and at the degree level.
Only 13% of students specialized in engineering and 17% in economics subjects
(including accountancy). In engineering, 30,400 were taking degree level
courses compared with only 7,800 in diploma courses, and in economics the
enrollments were 25,800 /1 at degree level as compared with 22,900 at diploma
level. The facilities, equipment and instructors needed for technician level
training are generally inadequate. The low level of development of technician
programs indicates that priority should be attached to expanding such training.
Future development of higher education should also attempt to solve problems
of inequity, which have persisted despite increases in tertiary level enroll-
ments: opportunities for higher education remain concentrated in Java where
five universities account for half of all enrollments, and children of parents
engaged in white collar activities are overrepresented in the student body.
/1 Half in accounting. The proportion of accountancy students in diploma
courses in unknown.



- 10 -
Financing
28.       Central Government expenditure on education rose sharply during the
recent past, from around 1% of GNP a decade ago to 3% in 1975. However, higher
education has received a low proportion of total education expenditure:
about 0.2% as a percentage of GNP in 1975, compared to an average of 0.6% for
other countries in the region.
Engineering and Technician Training
29.       Engineering degrees are awarded to about 1,000 graduates each year
from 16 public universities and to an additional 550 graduates from private
universities. The highest quality training is offered by the Institutes of
Technology at Bandung and Surabaya (ITB and ITS) which together account for a
third of degree level engineering enrollments. Quality improvements are,
however, required in all engineering programs, including those provided by the
ITB and the ITS: these could be effected by provision of more teaching
materials and equipment, as well as through staff development programs.
30.       In Indonesia, no coherent system exists for training engineering
technicians, though workers at this skill level are vital for the effective
operation of most manufacturing and construction industries: the technician
holds a middle level position and must be able to undertake or supervise the
application of known technologies in a particular engineering field. At
present engineering technicians are trained in a variety of small institutions
and programs. Training is provided by Government departments, through diploma
programs at universities, and by private academies. This effort has lacked
coordination and standardization; quality problems exist throughout the system
due to the lack of qualified staff, and of adequate facilities and equipment.
Some semi-public and private industries have initiated in-service technician
training programs to compensate for the general shortage of graduates from
formal technician training programs, but these programs also lack adequate
enrollment capacity, quality and coherence. Because of their importance for
the implementation of future development programs, the Government now plans
to strengthen and expand public diploma training for engineering technicians.
It will establish a new system to provide technician level training that
emphasizes the practical skills required by industry in civil, mechanical and
electrical engineering. Close working relations would be established between
the new institutes and regional industry. Technician level training would
generally be improved by the provision of better laboratory equipment,
teacher training and appropriate administrative structures.
Accountancy Training
31.       Degree level training in accounting is currently provided within
nine university faculties of economics whose output is estimated at 300 to
350 accountants per year; Government accountancy training (degree and diploma
level) is given at the Ministry of Finance's State School for Government
Accountants (STAN); and diploma level accounting training is carried out
largely by private academies and in several DEC programs transferred from
academies to the universities after 1972. The expansion and effectiveness of
higher level accountancy training are constrained by the limited number of



- 11 -
trained staff and the lack of appropriate teaching materials. The Government
will therefore attempt to provide more effective staff training, more practical
and relevant courses and programs, and more effective teaching materials. The
Government plans to initiate an inventory of accounting manpower needs and a
related development plan for accountancy education. It also intends to
undertake a study to develop an improved Government accounting and auditing
system, which is currently based on a single entry bookkeeping system.
Education Investment Program
32.       Throughout the First and Second Plan periods the Government attached
general priority to improving and expanding primary and secondary education;
during the Second Plan, nonformal education was also emphasized. As the
Second Plan draws to a close, inefficiency and the generally poor quality of
teaching at the tertiary level have begun to seriously constrain the implemen-
tation of development programs. The Government has thus placed increasing
emphasis on the need for rationalizing the development of higher education.
It plans to improve internal efficiency by diversifying training programs, by
shortening the average length of training and by consolidating uneconomical
institutions. Particular emphasis is being placed on increasing the output
and improving the quality and efficiency of higher technical training on
which the industrial sector will increasingly depend. Within this category,
investment is to be directed towards engineering, economics (including
accountancy and business management) and the sciences. Allocations of
development funds to the DEC increased 18-fold under the Second Development
Plan to $1.6 billion. However, during the Repelita III period, there is
likely to be an investment gap in the education sector which should be met in
part through external assistance.
33.       To date the Bank Group has extended assistance totaling $95.4 million
to the education sector in Indonesia. Investments have pursued the main
objectives of meeting critical manpower requirements, improving quality and
increasing equity. In the absence of a comprehensive analysis of the sector,
Bank Group lending initially financed three relatively small projects that met
evident educational and manpower needs: the First Education Project (Credit
219-IND) provided an improved quality of technical training at the secondary
level; the Second Project (Credit 288-IND) created a national agricultural
training agency and expanded output of middle level agricultural manpower, and
under the Third Project (Credit 387-IND), textbooks and in-service teacher
training were provided to improve the quality of primary education. Subsequent
projects were identified on the basis of a comprehensive Government education
study and a Bank sector survey (Report No. 443a-IND dated February 5, 1975):
the Fourth Project (Loan 1237-IND) is helping to meet manpower requirements by
providing vocational/technical and public administration training; the Fifth
Project (Loan 1433-IND) aims to improve primary and secondary teacher training;
and the Sixth Project (Loan 1486-IND) pursues the equity objective by streng-
thening nonformal education. Lending for higher education thus far has been
limited to technical teacher training; however, in response to shortages of
higher level manpower the Bank conducted a subsector survey on higher technical
education in 1977. This survey identified the need, first, to establish a new
system to train middle level technicians, as proposed under the polytechnic



- 12 -
project, and second, to strengthen university level education in engineering,
science, mathematics and business management. Preparations have begun on a
project to address this second priority in higher education. In addition,
future Bank-assisted projects are expected to continue to support a broad
range of activities in the sector through repeater projects in such priority
areas as agriculture training, textbooks, teacher training and non-formal
education.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Department of Education and
Culture with the assistance of Unesco and was appraised by the Association in
February 1978, with follow-up discussions in Indonesia in April 1978. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2125o-IND, dated December 7, 1978) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from November 6 to 8, 1978, with the Indonesian
delegation led by Mr. D.A.D. Tisna Amidjaja, Director General for Higher
Education, Department of Education and Culture.
Objectives
35.       The proposed project would pursue the following three objectives:
(a) to introduce a new system for training engineering technicians
by establishing six polytechnics and providing management and
program support;
(b) to improve the quality of accountancy training and practice through
a program of instructor training, materials development and research;
and
(c) to assist in strengthening planning and management of higher
education through a series of studies centering on manpower analy-
sis and planning for higher technical training and through project
performance monitoring and implementation assistance.
Project Components
36.       Technician Training (Proposed outlay, $59.2 million, excluding
contingencies). In an effort to meet the need for engineering technicians, six
polytechnics would be established under the project to provide three years of
diploma level training in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering. The
project would finance civil works for a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC) and the six polytechnics; program development for the polytechnics;
and related technical assistance. Implementation of this component would be
managed by the Unit for Management of Diploma Programs, established in the
Directorate General for Higher Education (DGHE) in the DEC. The Unit would be



- 13 -
responsible for policy and for setting standards and procedures for development
of technician training, including training to be provided by the project
polytechnics. The TEDC would be directly responsible for programming and
planning of polytechnic training programs, including development of curriculum,
provision of pre- and in-service training for staff, and development of a
system for monitoring polytechnic operations. The TEDC would also be respon-
sible for coordinating the development of course materials, initially by
selecting and adapting existing materials, and later by preparing new materials.
The Government provided assurances that to make the polytechnic training
relevant to the job market it would establish within six months of the opening
of the TEDC and each polytechnic an industrial advisory board for the TEDC and
for each polytechnic with functions and composition acceptable to the Associa-
tion (Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement).
37.        The polytechnics would be located in four prdvinces in Java (at
the Universities of Indonesia, Brawijaya, Diponegoro and the Institute of
Technology of Bandung and two provinces in Sumatera (at the Universities
of Medan and Sriwijaya). These institutions were chosen on the basis of
industrial density; nearby industries would maximize the achievement of
project objectives, both by fostering greater coordination between training
and employment needs, and by facilitating recruitment of suitably trained
staff to the polytechnics and employment of graduates.
38.        About 680 new teaching and administrative positions would need to be
created between 1978 and 1984 to staff the TEDC and polytechnics. In view of
competing demands for output from existing engineering faculties and technician
training institutions, recruitment of polytechnic staff would be phased over
the period 1981-84. Since the success of the polytechnics would depend to a
large degree on the quality of this staff, the project would provide a strong
program of preservice and in-service training. An understanding has been
reached with the Government on the schedule for appointment and training of
polytechnic staff, for appointment of key staff to the project management
authority, and for creating the organizational structure of the polytechnics
and TEDC.
39.        A monitoring system has been built into the technician training
component. The Government provided assurances that it would conduct a review
of the project technician training component and submit it to the Association
by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.07 of the Credit Agreement).
40.        Accountancy Training (Proposed outlay, $5.2 million, excluding
contingencies). The proposed project would finance facilities and equipment,
fellowships and technical assistance to upgrade the quality of accountancy
training and practices. This quality improvement would be achieved through
provision of trained faculty, and appropriate teaching materials and facili-
ties at secondary and tertiary institutions. Three accountancy development
centers would be established in university economics faculties (at the
Universities of Indonesia, Gadjah Mada and Medan) and a fourth in the Sekolah
Tinggi Akutansi Negara (STAN, or State School for Government Accountants).
These institutions are among the few with established accountancy programs and
staff capable of providing the required leadership and expertise. The STAN
center is included because of the Ministry of Finance's important role in



- 14 -
public accounting and auditing. The three university centers would each
upgrade nearly 500 instructors and practicing accountants a year, and
the STAN center would upgrade nearly 800 Government accountants and budget
officers annually. In addition, some 2,500 accountancy instructors and
practitioners would attend workshop, lecture and seminar series. The project
would provide financing for these training programs, including the cost of
transportation and subsistence for participants and rental of facilities for
use by the three university centers and for converting some STAN facilities
into classrooms. The project would also include financing for materials
development and research projects, which would be chosen for their potential
to improve accountancy practices in the short term. A performance monitoring
system would be established under the accountancy component. The Government
agreed to submit annually to the Association for comment, and thereafter
implement, such programs for training, materials development and research at
the four accountancy development centers in a form satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation (Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement).
41.       The accountancy component would also include three related studies:
a study on accountancy manpower requirements, a study on business management
education requirements and a study by the Ministry of Finance to develop an
improved Government accounting and auditing system. Draft terms of reference
have been prepared for the above three studies as well as for the two studies
to be included under the polytechnic component.
42.       Planning and Management Support.  (Proposed outlay of $15.6 mil-
lion, excluding contingencies). Establishment of the new polytechnic system
would require training of 680 staff, an extensive program of materials
development, and development of management support systems and procedures.
The component to improve accountancy training would require the development of
practical, relevant courses and new teaching materials. Implementation of
these two components of the project would therefore require substantial
technical assistance. Furthermore, the project would finance the services of
specialists to assist the Government in procurement matters, to improve the
Government's accounting and auditing procedures, to carry out several education-
related studies, to monitor the performance of education projects, and to
prepare future education projects. To achieve these objectives the project
would finance about 129 man-years of expatriate and 245 man-years of local
specialist services, 73.5 man-years of overseas fellowships and provide
$700,000 to support a financial aid program (bursaries at $200 per year per
person) for the polytechnics. Expatriate specialists to assist with staff
training and materials development would be phased out during the last years
of the project as local staff assume these responsibilities.
Implementation
43.       The project would be implemented by the Directorate General for
Higher Education in the DEC. The Unit for Management of Diploma Program
(UMDP) would serve as the project management authority. One of its members
has been appointed project director. For purposes of implementation, a
procurement officer and architect and subunits to manage the implementation of
the associated studies and the accounting component would be attached to
this Unit. The Government provided assurances that it would maintain the



- 15 -
project management authority, the technician education development center,
the six polytechnics and the four accountancy development centers during
execution of the project and keep them staffed with qualified persons
(Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement). Because of past inefficiencies
in procurement for education projects, the Government attaches priority to
pooling expertise from various directorates general to handle civil works
and procurement of equipment and furniture. To achieve this objective, the
Government has agreed to establish by June 30, 1980 a central procurement
advisory service unit for education projects with staffing arrangements
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement).
The Government has also given assurances that it would submit to the Associa-
tion by December 31, 1980 for comments an equipment maintenance and inventory
control system and thereafter implement such system (Section 4.02 (c)) of the
Credit Agreement).
44.       The Government has made substantial progress in an effort to
expedite detailed project preparation. A decree outlining the framework of
the project organizational structure has been issued and a project director
has been appointed. Based on this organizational framework, the Director
General for Higher Education plans to issue in early 1979 separate decrees
to establish administrative units for accountancy, procurement, associated
studies and architectural work; and authorize the organizational structure of
the technician education development center, the four accountancy development
centers and the six polytechnics. Polytechnic curriculum outlines and master
equipment lists have already been prepared under a cooperative agreement with
the Swiss Contact Agency, financed by the Swiss Government. Purchase of
sites is largely completed. Architectural sketch and site plans for four
polytechnics have been finalized; plans for the remaining two polytechnics
and the TEDC are to be completed during January 1979.
45.       A condition of the effectiveness of the credit would be the signing
of contracts acceptable to the Association for the professional (architectural)
services for all polytechnics and for technical assistance related to the
polytechnic program (Section 5.01 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing /1
46.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $104.0 million
equivalent, including a physical contingency of $8.0 million and $16.0 mil-
lion to meet anticipated inflation. For local cost items the assumed annual
/1 The project was appraised and negotiated before the November 15 devalua-
tion of the Rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar. The figures
contained in this report are based on the exchange rate prevailing
at appraisal. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the devaluation
on the local costs of the project (including contingencies) indicates that
the local costs would rise when expressed in Rupiah terms from Rp 23 bil-
lion to Rp 31 billion and fall in dollar terms from $55 million to $50 mil-
lion. In dollar terms, the total cost of the project would fall from
$104 million to $99 million. The foreign exchange component, expressed in
US dollar terms, would remain unchanged. On this basis the proposed
credit would cover 52% of the total project cost expressed in US dollar
equivalent.



- 16 -
inflation rate for the period 1979-1985 would range from 8% to 9% and for
f6reign exchange costs from 6% to 7.5%. The technical assistance program was
costed as follows: $12,000/man-year for fellowships for overseas training,
$80,000/man-year to $90,000/man-year for expatriate specialist services; and
about $6,000/man-year for local specialists. Project items imported by the
project management authority would be exempt from customs duties and taxes.
47.       The proposed credit of $49.0 million would finance 47% of the
total project cost, or 100% of the foreign exchange cost. The Government
would finance the remaining 53%. It is recommended that the Association
provide retroactive financing for an agreed portion of the technical assist-
ance costs incurred after July 1, 1978 up to $200,000 for preparation of
project components (para 4 of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement). At full
operating capacity, programs at the project institutions would require
recurrent expenditures of $5.1 million equivalent (1977 prices), which
represents an increase of 1% over recurrent public education expenditures in
1977.
48.       Five of the six proposed polytechnics have adequate land.  A
suitable site has been selected for the remaining polytechnic. Purchase of
the site is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978. Civil works would
be carried out in three phases. Project construction would start in December
1979 and be completed in 1982. Procurement of furniture and equipment would
start in 1980 and be completed in 1982.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       To the extent practicable civil works and procurement of furniture
and equipment would be grouped to form attractive bid packages. Contracts
for civil works estimated to cost $500,000 or more would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines for procurement. In bid comparison local contractors would be
allowed a 7.5% margin of preference./l Prior IDA review would be required
with respect to contract awards for civil works estimated to cost $200,000
equivalent or more. Civil works contracts costing less than $500,000 may be
awarded under competitive bidding advertised locally, following procedures
acceptable to IDA up to an aggregate total of $6.0 million, because their
relatively small size would not attract interest from foreign bidders. Equip-
ment, including vehicles, and furniture packages of $50,000 equivalent or
/1  The revised Per Capita Income Guidelines for Operational Purposes were
issued on June 27, 1978 (Sec M78-542) which, in contrast to earlier years,
list Indonesia's per capita GNP at $300 (in 1977) compared to the threshold
of $295 for eligibility. However, since the project was appraised and
discussed with the Government before the issuance of the revised guidelines,
for the purposes of this project Indonesia would continue to be eligible.
It should also be noted that following the November 15 Rupiah devaluation
(para. 16 above) per capita GNP should now be about $200 for 1977.



- 17 -
more would also be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In bid comparison, local manufac-
turers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% on the c.i.f. cost of
equipment or the customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for equipment,
excluding vehicles, and furniture, each costing less than $50,000 equivalent
would be awarded without prior IDA review on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, provided that the aggregate total of such contracts does
not exceed $3.0 million. Miscellaneous items, in packages costing less than
$10,000 equivalent and subject to an aggregate total not exceeding $1.5 mil-
lion equivalent, could be purchased through prudent local shopping on the
basis of at least three price quotations and instructional materials and
books produced outside Indonesia would be procured through prudent interna-
tional shopping, also on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations.
Books produced locally would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to IDA or, where appropriate,
from publishers after negotiations for bulk purchases. Contracts for nine
vehicles which are needed for the start-up period may be procured through
prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations.
50.       The proposed credit of $49 million would be disbursed over a
period of six years. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 35%
of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of the cost of professional services for
civil works; (c) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported furniture, materials and
equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture,
materials and equipment, 65% of imported furniture, materials and equipment
procured locally; and 40% of vehicles procured locally; and (d) 100% of the
cost of fellowships and expert services. To the extent practicable, with-
drawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of $50,000 or more prior
to submission to IDA for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the proposed
credit. No disbursement would be made from the credit against incremental
operating expenditures. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30,
1985.
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       The main benefits expected from the technician training component
would be improved quality and expanded output of engineering technicians. These
would be achieved through establishment of an effective system for managing
and developing technician training and through provision of the six polytechnics.
At full operating capacity annual output from the polytechnics, averaging
1,330 graduates, would constitute a 45% increase over present levels of
output from technician training programs and would meet about 12% of estimated
requirements for trained technicians during the period 1986-1990. Part of the
deficit would be met through a combination of output from existing institutions
and in-service training programs and the rest by upgrading of skilled workers
through on-the-job experience. Further expansion could be undertaken to
balance supply and demand for trained technicians, after the polytechnic
system inroduced through the proposed project, has been fully established.
The accountancy component would assist the Government in strengthening the
quality of accountancy training and practice in the public and private sectors



- 18 -
through development of teaching staff and improved courses and materials. It
would further pave the way for expansion of accountancy training in accordance
with economic requirements. By 1981,each of the three university accountancy
development centers would provide upgrading for nearly 500 accountancy instruc-
tors and practitioners annually. About 800 (nearly 40% of total) Government
accountants and budget officers would receive short-term upgrading at the STAN
center each year. Their participation in courses on modern Government auditing
and budgeting procedures would contribute to improving Government financial
management, planning and decision-making. The associated studies would assist
the Government in rationalizing development of the higher education subsector
and in modernizing its accounting and auditing system.
52.       Achievement of anticipated benefits from the polytechnic component
would depend largely on recruitment and training of teaching staff. There is
a risk that adequate numbers of qualified staff could not be readily recruited
on a full-time basis to run the polytechnics. Recognizing that it would be
necessary to recruit some initially underqualified staff, the project would
provide intensive preservice training and in-service support for polytechnic
teachers. To facilitate implementation of preservice training, staff would
be recruited during their last year of formal training and one-year bursaries
provided to accelerate completion of these programs. Also experienced
part-time staff could be employed as required. A related concern is that the
polytechnics, located within universities, would be unable to achieve their
training objectives within the more academic environment of the university.
The structure and organization of the polytechnics have, however, been
designed to allow for semi-independence from the universities. Further
support would be provided by the Unit for Management of Diploma Programs
through its responsibility for setting standards and procedures for the
overall development of technician training. More generally, the monitoring
system built into project components should serve to highlight deviations
from project objectives during initial operations and to provide the basis
for possible corrective action.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMTENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d), of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. An additional condition of effectiveness of
the Credit Agreement would be the execution of the contracts for architectural
services for the construction of the six polytechnics and for technical
assistance related to the polytechnic program (Section 5.01 of the Credit
Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 7, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 20-                                                   Page 1
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. NM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1904.3                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      283.8                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0       140.0      300.0            616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(rILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      129.0        120.0      178.0           522.0        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MIlD-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         94.7        117.6     133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9          17.5       17.9             30.1       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        50.0         62.0       70.0           156.8        46.8         42.7
PER sQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0         419.0     470.0            794.8       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.1 /f      44.0      42.1             40.8        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.3 tf      53.5      55.1             55.4        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6 /f       2.5        2.8              3.2        2.9          3.0
PO?ULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1          2.0        2.0              2.3        2.4          2.7
rRBAN                                *-          3.7 71    2.6               5.1        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.0        45.9       40.3             34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.4        20.6       19.9              8.7        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8         3.2        2.5              2.6        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           0.2       13.7             22.1       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              96.5        100.0      102.7            106.8       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0         91.0       98.0            108.7       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         43.0       43.8             57.7       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0 /h      14.0       16.6             17.0       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..        ..              4.0         ..           7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5          45.0       45.3             59.0       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            125.0 /f.i      ..     116.0             44.0       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          3.0       11.0             21.9       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..         10.0       41.0             58.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..          1.0        4.0              9.8       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         12.0       15.0             28.6       16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..        50.0       60.0             66.6       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..          4.0        5.0             14.8        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          41380.0 li  26830.0   16930.0             4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      7770.0 /1 7310.0 /1         1520.2     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1370.0       1670.0    1430.0             657.1     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..      1130.0         ..            145.5      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..       1890.0         ..           1011.8     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..             19.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4         4.8         ..              5.2         5.2
URBAN                                4.9         5.3         ..              5.2         4.8
RURAL                                4.3         4.7         ..              5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.5         ..
URBAN                                ..          1.6         ..               ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                                 ..         1.6         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        63.5         ..             39.1        25.9        28.3
URBAN                                 ..        75.5         ..
RURAL                                 ..        39.1         ..               ..         8.7         10.3



ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                             /a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 67.0        75.0       81.0            95.6       62.9        75.8
FEMALE               55.0        70.0       75.0            93.7       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  6.0         15.0      18.0            43.3       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                3.0        11.0       13.0            38.6        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0        22.0       21.0            11.3        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        29.0       30.0            30.0       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         14.0         13.0      15.0            25.4       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       47.0 /k      59.0      62.0 /k         84.0       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0          2.0       3.0             9.3        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TMHUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0           *-      39.0            97.6       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.7        ..             21.8        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..       16.0            25.9         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..         ..             4.6         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0    44200.0   48430.0 L.
FEPALE (PERCENT)                  27.9         31.0      34.2            33.2       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             75.0         69.0      60.1            48.4       60.7         54.1.
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 8.4         9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               54.1         49.9      52.6            38.9       39.8         37.8
MALE                                79.8         68.7      73.8            48.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                              29.4         32.1      36.8            28.4       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4          1.3       1.2             1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         33.7 1M     ..            17.3       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        52.014       ..            45.6       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          6.8 /m     ..             6.5        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         17.3 Im     ..            17.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      125.0           140.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       95.0           112.8       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       55.0            76.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       55.0            27.7       46.0         22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       59.0            40.4       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   1d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita, 1976);  If  Excludes W. Irian;   IR  1961-71;  1h  1961-63;   L   1962;  ]j  Including
midwives;  1k  Aged 10 years and over;  14  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Naluku and
Irian Jaya;  /m  Income recipients.
September 1978



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                                                 Page- 3
DEF INITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the dots era drawn fron  sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it ahould min bhe noted that they may not be inter-
nationally ctuperahle hecause of the lack of standerdimed definitions and concept  u aed by different countries in collecting the data.  The data are, nonetheless,
useful to dee-ribh orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differeonee between countries.
The adjusted group averages for mark indinator are population-weighted geometric meas, excluding the extreme valuee of the indicator end the moat
poyplated country in ath group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and in not uniform. Due to lank of data,
gro-p averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of  ...es.  to water and e.creta disposal, housing, inco-e dietribution and poverty are
siople population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme valas.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. k)                                                                 Population per hospital bhd - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land are  and inlend waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bads
Agricultural - Must recent estimate Of agriculcural ares used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or perm nently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gerdens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow                                                                                at least one physician.  estsbliehments providing principally custodial
carecgre nortincluded.  Rural hosapitals, however, inclsde health end medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician  (but by a mdical e-
calculated by suns convertion method as World B-nk Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc .) which offer in-patient sacommodation and
1960. 1970,asod 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited nange of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Ancual csosumption of commercial  .enrgy                     frot  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
therl electricity) in kilograms of co-l equiv-lent per capita.                       bOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
PlPl'LATION ANI1 VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consiste of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if nor available,                     and their main meal.   A boarder or lodger may or   y not be included is
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total populs-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urb-n areas my affect comparability                     Average number of p0r0on5   per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings mxclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. k.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rural -
Per sq  km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
Only.                                                                                    of total, urban, sod rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yeses sad over) as per.entages  of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      AdJusted enrollment ratios
Population arowth cats (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primry school - totel, and femle - Total and famale enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for .ountries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic sysrag- ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per th.usond) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computad as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages eading is 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gr...scs -pdctiu  rate - Av-ra.g  sober of deoghtarc  a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other progrms which operats indepsndently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - Primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program                                                                          primry and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in th  csorre-
Family planning - users (percent of arried women) - Percentege of                           *ponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birtb-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to a11 married women in same age group,                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRrTION                                                                      C01NSU'PTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Indee number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita :nnual production of a1  food conmoditis.                                       eating lees than eight persons; excludes ambulences, hearses end military
per capitasupplyofalories                tof requirements) - Computed from               vehicles
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country par capita                Radio receivers (per thousand nopulation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Avetlblo supplies creprioe domestic production, imports lees                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; sxcludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   affect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirementn were estimated by FAl based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensaig.
=el activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to ganerS
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed 7V receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (atoe=  Per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (par thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
abovo.   Requirements for .11 countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is c-nsidered to
a minimum  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four ties a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gS-  should be animal protein.               Cinema annual  ttendance per caPita Par year - Based an the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grosa  of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita Protein sply from animal  n   os      rti   upyo   od                       DLY1
derived from  animals and pulses in gram   per        Po day.                         Total labor force (thousands) - Econonically active persons, including armed
Child (uges 1-i) mortality cats  (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in veriou  countries are not comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor forc..
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
-ooilolg st birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975                                                                                  electricity, water  nd gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (ner thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, ale, and female - Total, me, and
one year of age per thousand live biohta.                                                 female labor force as percentages of their respectivs populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are nO's adjusted participation rates reflecting ass-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reaso. hble access to                     atructure of the population. ond long tire  trend.
oafe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and oanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populatione.
In an urban stag a public fountain or standpost located not nore                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters loom a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by nichest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of households
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to emcrtac  disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (US1  Per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Nuobar of people (total, urban, and rural) served by secreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal no percentages of their respective populations   Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus  assential non-food requirements is not
disposal mIy include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human esorets and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Etimated relative poverty income level (USS Par capita) - urban and rural -
or thi  use of pit privies and similar installations                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level 1ess than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       par capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimated population below poverty incoma  level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population  per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) wh. are either "absolute potr" or
practicing m-le and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
_OlttOctnOOO
Economic and Social Data Division
Eoosomic Analysis and Projections Departmnt



- 23 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1960-65            1965-70         1971-77
GNP at Market Prices           44,386        100.0                           1.9                4.9            7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       8,667         19.5                           3.3               11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                           5.8                5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,592         17.1                           1.5                7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                           0.2               10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$  Mln.    =                    Mln.        %                     US $V
Agriculture                    11,624       31.1                  35.3      62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                       12,672       33.9                   4.7        8.3                2,696         407.3
Services                       13,043       35.0                  13.4       23.8                  973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                    3.0        5.3
Total/Average
3;7339    1 00 .                            1                                   moo.o 100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERN1MENT
(Rp. sillion)       _                                      of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                            1976                 1977
Current Receipts               2,877                3,535                            18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610                2,149                            10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                1,26T7               1,387                             8.2                   7.3
Capital Expenditures           2,044                2,157                            13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1972          1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
TEllion Rp outstanding end periodlF
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbersi)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 - 100)             807         1,0281       1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7          14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7          06.2       -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3          77.9         27.2         16.0         26.2          18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
2I Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
October 31, 1978



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                    Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLWW5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCMNDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975      1976      1977(Provisional)                                       US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                        4.738   6.183      7,592                 Oil                                  2,906       57.1
Oil (net)                     2,921   3,567    4,243                   Timber                                 605      11.9
Non oil                       1,817   2,216    3,349                  Rubber                                  461       9.1
Imports                        -5,533  -6,352   -7,489                   Palm Oil                               117        2.3
Resource Gap                 -  795  -  169         103                Tin                                    107        2.1
Factor service:                -  462  -  646   -  828                   Coffee                                  104       2.0
Interest                     -  178  -  362   -         43
Investment Income            -  284  -  284   -  355                    All other commodities                 791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -    BT    -  7                             Total                         5,         j00,0
Direct Foreign Investment         497      329       286                EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                2,395   2,327      1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization                -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                     2,073   1,702      1,162                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 11,391
Capital Grants                    ..       ..        ..                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            -2,250  -  205   )474                      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              -   46  -   04                                                         1/ 2/
increase in Reserves (+)    -  983         736    1,197                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-  -
Gross Reserves (end year)         590   1,494      2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)         490   1,226      2,423                   Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          93      119        28
of which:  Petroleum           89      114        26
Fxports
of which:  Petroleum        2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Oct. 31,  1978)(Million US $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                               _BRD          IDA
2/                Outstanding & Disbursed                 549.4        480.8
inrouah  - Aug. 1971             Since  -  1971-                    Undisbursed                          1 222.6        150.0
Rp  I 00O   US= 27               US $ 1.00 = Rp 415                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         1,772.0        630.8
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 - Rp 625
Rp  1000 - US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
October 31, 1978



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 21 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1978)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                        Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed                                                 202.2       0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                       18.5       0.1
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                       14.5       0.2
246          1971          Seeds                                                  7.5       0.1
259          1971          Tea                                                   15.0       1.1
260          1971          Second Highway                                        34.0       0.4
289          1972          Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                      12.5       0.4
300          1972          Population                                            13.2       3.7
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                      8.5       2.0
319          1972          Fourth Agricultural Estates                           11.0       2.4
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                3.6       0.3
358          1973          North Sumatra Smallholder Development                  5.0       0.8
387          1973          Third Education                                       13.5       4.9
388          1973          Third Highway                                         14.0       0.3
399          1973          West Java Thermal Power                               46.0       5.0
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                     7.8       6.6
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                         50.0       2.2
428          1974          Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                         16.5      10.1
436          1974          Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                   10.0       1.2
451          1974          Fourth Technical Assistance                            5.0       2.4
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                          16.0      11.1
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                       6.5       2.1
514          1975          Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                        30.0      23.1
785          1978          Small Enterprise Development Project                  40.0      40.0
827          1978          Rural Credit                                          30.0      30.0
1005         1974          Railway                                    48.0                  5.0
1040         1975          Jakarta Urban Development                  25.0                  2.7
1049         1975          Five Cities Water Supply                   14.5                 10.8
1054         1975          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                             50.0                  0.1
1089         1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.0                  2.3
1100         1975          Sixth Irrigation                           65.0                 50.7
1127         1975          Fourth Power                               41.0                  7.8



- 26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 21 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                                     Undisbursed
Number      Year                      Purpose                        Bank       IDA     Bank/IDA
1139        1976          Fertilizer Distribution                    68.0                 1.5
1179        1976          Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5                20.0
1197        1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0                10.4
1236        1976          Fourth Highway                            130.0               105.2
1237        1976          Fourth Education                           37.0                33.5
1250        1976          Second Shipping                            54.0                49.6
1254        1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.0                17.8
1259        1976          Fifth Power                                90.0                77.3
1267        1976          National Food Crops Extension              22.0                16.7
1268        1976          Seventh Irrigation                         33.0                22.8
1318        1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                             30.0                 24.4
1336        1977          Second Urban Development                   52.5                26.2
1337        1977          Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0                26.4
1363        1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                              15.0                 12.8
1365        1977          Sixth Power                               116.0                91.0
1373        1977          Nutrition Development                      13.0                12.9
1433        1977          Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0                18.0
1434        1977          Eighth Irrigation                          63.0                61.4
1435        1977          Ninth Irrigation                           35.0                31.3
1437        1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                           40.0                 27.4
1472        1977          Second Population                          24.5                24.0
1486        1978          Non-Formal Education                       15.0                15.0
1499        1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0                63.0
1513        1978          Seventh Power                             109.0               109.0
S 009       1978          Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering /b                           10.0                 10.0
1578        1978          Tenth Irrigation                          140.0               139.7
1579        1978          Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0                31.0
1604        1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II        65.0                65.0
Total                                                1,772.0    630.8   1,373.0
of which has been repaid                               8.0       0.0
Total now outstanding                                1,764.0    630.8
Amount sold                                   27.9
.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                     1,736.1    630.8
Total undisbursed                                    1,222.6    150.4   1,373.0
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Not yet effective.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 21 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                         Loan      Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                10.6       2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                    Textiles                2.5       0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.5          2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia           Cable                   2.8       0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles               4.5       1.5          6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel        Tourism                11.0        -          11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                  5.4       0.7          6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan              Electronics             0.9        -           0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                     Devel. Fin. Co.          -        0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles                2.4       0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                 5.0       1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                   -        1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles               0.3        -           0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles                1.4       0.1          1.5
Total                                           50.8      10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             28.0       1.8         29.8
Total held by IFC                               22.8       8.7         31.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  -            -            -



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 21 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                  Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435,
1578 and 1579)                                                 5-7
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)        7-10
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                           10-11
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                   11
Education (Cr. 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                                 11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                  13-14
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                               14-15
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1054, 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)  15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9 /2)                                                   16
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                       17
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                  17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         18
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                       18-19
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                    19
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                           20
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                        20
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                            20-21
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)                                        21
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                      21
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 21 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is almost
totally disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound
and hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date:  May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The overall project is now substantially completed, about 3 years
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in
preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy rains in
the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation rates and
consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but time lost
cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving
with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher
than previous levels. The estimated project cost is more than twice the
appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972: Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. Completion of the project is expected



-30-                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 21 pages
by March 1979, a delay of about two years compared to appraisal estimates.
The Credit is about 96% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project
have been concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974: Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved.   Based on bid prices for the first
contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the
total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal
estimate. The project is about 20% disbursed.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975: Effective Date: June 20, 1975: Closing Date:
June 30. 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. Steps have been taken to accelerate the preparation of
these documents, and part of the time lost may yet be made up in the remaining
construction period. Substantial cost overruns are anticipated because of
unavoidable major changes in one project component and unit price increases in
other components. These will be verified within the next 12 months as bids
are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4.
1976: Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary
development areas and studies being funded under the project are expected to
be completed by December 1978. The mapping program is progressing satisfac-
torily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31.
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily; it is slightly behind
schedule but time lost is expected to be made up.



- 31 -               ANNEX II
Page 7 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is ahead of schedule and progressing satisfactorily. Some
tender documents have been prepared and are expected to be let in the next year.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation Project:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A smooth start has been made on project implementation.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation Project:  US$31 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Effective Date: August 16, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on project implementation.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons or 30%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance 'but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
participating in both the NES I project and the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).



- 32 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 21 pages
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. Major changes in project scope and
objectives (approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977) reflected a
change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for
export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and
breeding animals. The project was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and
is now being implemented satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on replanting
and less on rehabilitation; thus, the mix had to be changed reducing the
overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Production, however, will
not be affected since yields from replanted tea are higher than from rehabil-
itated tea. Costs will, however, exceed appraisal estimates by about 77%
since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have generally
increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in implementing the
institutional framework for long term lending, a new venture for BRI.
Because of this and difficulties in involving the private estates in the
project, disbursements are behind appraisal estimates. The problems are
being solved and the rate of disbursements is expected to accelerate. While
the project has experienced difficulties, it is estimated that, because of
the project-induced spin-off effects, an area at least equal in size to the
project is being improved. Over 500 farmers' groups have been formed to
improve tea production supported by a project training program involving up
to now nearly 4,000 farmers. These developments have been helped by a surge



- 33 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 21 pages
in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal estimates). Considerable investment in
factory and field development outside the project is taking place, largely
financed by short- and medium-term loans of BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs which are involved in the rehabilitation process are
both in a weak financial position and this problem requires attention. The
Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the industry
but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now estimated 18
months behind schedule. The project is about 65% disbursed. Construction of
shore facilities at Ambon is virtually completed. Boat construction is under
way and all related equipment is on site ready for installation. While the
quality of fishpond lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past,
remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the
situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind appraisal
estimates partly because of the initial delay in project effectiveness, and
because of weak project organization and management.  Nonetheless, 650 migrant
families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing food
crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fertiliser
supplies and poor seed supply, although half originates from construction and
rubber planting. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there has been
little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available on site
and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experience to
date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring that
agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as settle-
ment proceeds.



34 -               ANNEX II
Page 10 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Initial progress under this project shows that it is off to an
excellent start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting
material is being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced
project staff is being assembled at the project sites.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has just become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates. The
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) has an experienced and
capable Director and management has been strengthened by the recent appointment
of a new Director of the Project Implementation Unit. Good progress has been
made on the design of civil works, contracts have been let for all the extension
information centers, and AARD plans to let contracts for the three National
Research Centers (total cost about US$($8.0 million) before the end of 1978.
At the present projected pace of implementation all components, except fellow-
ships, could be completed by the project closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1982.
Due to late approval of the 1977-78 budget, the construction and
training programs have fallen behind schedule. It is, however, anticipated
that all civil works and procurement programs can be substantially completed
in FY79. Although excellent progress is being made with the program in the
field, Government has been urged to strengthen project supervision from
headquarters. Staff appointments are generally ahead of schedule and farmer
groups have been formed in most areas and are visited on a rgular basis by
extension personnel. Savings on the construction and procurement programs,



- 35 -                ANNEX II
Page 11 of 21 pages
and an adequate provision of local budgetary funds allowed incorporation of
another four provinces under the project in the 1978-79 Indonesian fiscal year.
Preparation of a second phase project should be completed in 1978.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock. Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 33 million books for 1978, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 380,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition
of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO and
by direct hire of consultants in publishing and paper procurement. Disburse-
ment has improved and is now 81% of the appraisal estimate as against 69% a
year ago. The Government has started a major review of the project to focus
on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook products and to overall
future needs for production of instructional materials.



-36 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The three subprojects - under the Department of Education (DOE),
Department of Manpower (DOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) -
initially suffered a ten-month delay due to slow site selection and late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust Agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance. However, progress since the initial delay has been
good for the DOE and LAN components. The DOM component is now 18 months
behind the appraisal estimate mainly because of delays in site acquisition
and development and in equipment procurement. In the last three months,
serious efforts have been made by the project unit and DOM to get this
project component on schedule: all but two sites have been acquired and
surveyed; bids for civil works at seven sites have been evaluated; access
roads and earthworks for six of these have been completed and contractors for
site works for seven more sites have been prequalified. Bids for the first
tender of equipment have been evaluated and equipment specifications for
future tenders are being finalized. The project unit has been strengthened,
a new training plan has been prepared to accelerate the training of instructors,
and the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is on schedule. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve teacher
training and develop new curricula has been accomplished successfully; and
good progress is being made with the second phase of the educational component
and with curriculum development and training of 110 more instructores. The
technical assistance contracts have been signed and civil work contracts for
28 institutions have been awarded.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implementation progress is satisfactory.   All positions
in the project unit are filled and appointment of key staff at provincial
centers has been completed. Appointment of other technical support staff and
fieldworkers is proceeding on schedule. A technical assistance firm has been
contracted and initial advisors are in post. Rehabilitation of one of two
existing provincial centers has been completed; work at the second center is
nearing completion. Three of four sites for new provincial centers have been
acquired and construction of the centers is expected to proceed on schedule.
Initial staff training, learning materials development and evaluation activi-
ties are being carried out.



- 37 -                 ANNEX II
Page 13 of 21 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal E.gwer   US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973' Effective Dater August 28, 1973, Closing Date:
June 30. 1980.
The project implementation was initially delayed due to the neces-
sity for making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment due to rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, the implementation is
now progressing smoothly. The first 100 MW unit will be commissioned into
service by March 1979 and will be followed by the second unit by June 1979.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975  Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date June 30, 1980.
The construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1979
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected. The loan disbursement is as per schedule envisaged in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 2O, 1976;
Effective Date   September 20, 1976- Closing Dates
March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in four lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1 valued
at US$13.6 million has been received. Orders for equipment covered by Lot 2,
amounting to US$32.4 million are now being placed. It is expected that
inquiries for Lot 3 will be issued in September 1978. The project suffered an
initial setback in procurement action by about one year but is now progressing
satisfactorily. It is expected that the loan disbursement would be completed
prior to the closing date of March 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Project: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date. June 6 1977; Closing Date December 31, 1982.
The implementation of the project consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang is progressing satisfactorily. The disburse-
ment of the loan on June 30, 1978 was about 73% of that estimated in the
appraisal report, but is expected to improve. Currently, estimated commis-
sioning dates for the units are about four to six months ahead of the appraisal
estimate.



- 38 -                ANNEX II
Page 14 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1513  Seventh Power Project:  US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equipment,
electrical equipment and power transformer were opened on August 21, 1978.
Preliminary indications are that the prices will be within the project cost
estimates. The Project Report for the transmission lines and substations
design has been prepared. The progress of implementation is as per schedule
so far.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The gas system has been completed and total project cost
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977, about
three months ahead of schedule. Total project cost is expected to be below
the appraisal estimate.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulogadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of another
31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold to 99
firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around 19,000 and



- 39 -                ANNEX II
Page 15 of 21 pages
an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average in both factory construction
and land development. Overall, operations are profitable. The return on
capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is significantly higher
than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to developed land values
rising faster than the cost of raw land and development. The project's
development has been slower than forecast at appraisal and the Credit Closing
*        Date has been postponed until December 31, 1980.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project has been implemented satisfactorily and the loan
has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank appraisal
mission (August 1978) found that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the
Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 40 -                ANNEX II
Page 16 of 21 pages
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport (Engineering)   US$10.0 Mil-
lion Loan of May 19 1978; Closing Date; December 31. 1983.
The KP5BA, the group set up by the Government of Indonesia to
coordinate the preparation of the Bukit Asam Mining and Transportation
Engineering project, has negotiated contracts with MCS Consultants, a joint
venture group comprising Canadian Consulting Services Company Ltd., Montreal
Engineering Company Ltd., and Swan Wooster Engineering Company Ltd., to act
as the Project Services Contracto.r (PSC); with Bechtel to act as technical
advisors (TA); and with White and Case to act as legal advisors. The effec-
tiveness of the Bank loan is dependent on obtaining effectiveness of the PSC
and TA contracts. The negotiated contracts for these services now await
signature and the appropriate Government approvals. The Bank has reviewed
these contracts and has no objections to them. While technical and legal
assistance is now being provided to the KP5BA, the project is currently
running approximately three months behind schedule due to the time taken to
complete negotiations with MCS.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Completion of the construction program by the credit closing date
continues to cause concern. This problem has been complicated by a fire at a
half-completed provincial office where work has stopped. Assessment of the
Government's request to use anticipated savings on additional information,
education and communication activities and in-house computer facilities are
proceeding. Both the Association and the co-financier, the UNFPA, have no
objection, in principle, to using savings for improving the computer facilities
of NFPCB. A consultant has been engaged to determine the needs for such
improvement.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979 and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well. Continued
uncertainty because of the still pending reorganization of the NFPCB has
inhibited effective management of the two research studies and the Government s
attention has been drawn to this. As of October 18, 1978, US$0.5 million
(2%) of the loan had been disbursed.



-41 -                 ANNEX II
Page 17 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Prolect:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory. The Nutri-
tion Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components
as well as the fellowships program are proceeding with minor delays on the
original schedule. The rate of progress of civil works for the Food Technology
Center has been good. As of August 15, the degree of completion was as follows:
housing 18%, laboratory 13%, administrative block 13%, pilot plant 9%. About
3% of the Nutrition Academy's laboratory is completed. The construction of
the Nutrition Research Development Center has also started. The monitoring
and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is still not established.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2 1974; Effective Datez February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
BAKOSURTANAL's new building complex at Cibinong is now nearing
completion, and should be equipped and occupied in the later part of 1978,
ahead of the original schedule. Contracts have been signed for over half of
the equipment originally included in the project, including most of the
equipment required to produce maps. A loan from the Government of Canada to
the Government of Indonesia has now been signed for a parallel project which
will begin to provide mapping photography of Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Java, Bali
and the Lesser Sunda Islands in 1979. In the interim, 90% of Sumatera and 50%
of Irian Jaya and Maluku has been photographed under an Australian aid program.
Regional resource surveys have been completed in Lombok and are now underway
for the entire southern half of Sumatera and are beginning to produce informa-
tion of use for regional and project planning.



-42 -                 ANNEX II
Page 18 of 21 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution   US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Work on the five original port depots is practically completed
and has commenced on the sixth depot which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as
an extension financed from project savings. All four ships including that
approved in 1977 have been delivered and 42 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, three port depots and 26 storage depots are operat-
ing. Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be,
due to some extent to existing stocks of fertilizer disrupting the planned
distribution pattern. The matter is being taken up with Pusri and improvements
are expected.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Construction of the Sawahtambang-Muarabungo section of the Trans-
Sumatera Highway was completed and opened to traffic in mid-1976 (within the
first revised Closing Date of December 31, 1976). The bulk of consulting
services under the project were also completed by mid-1976. Only detailed
engineering for part of the Padang-Medan Highway remains to be completed for
which the Closing Date was subsequently revised to December 31, 1978; this
work was interrupted and delayed due to the Government's need to reconsider
its plans for regional, urban and port development. Quality of construction
and services were satisfactory and cost overrun was small.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction of the two North Sulawesi road sections was started
in 1974 under separate contracts. Quality of work is satisfactory but delays
and high construction costs were experienced due to mobilization problems,
adverse climatic conditions, increases in quantities and sharp escalation of
prices. Total project costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about 70%.
One road section was completed in February 1978 and the other is scheduled for
completion in November 1978 within the revised December 31, 1978 Closing Date



- 43 -                ANNEX II
Page 19 of 21 pages
of the Credit. The project feasibility studies and detailed engineering
studies of highway betterment were satisfactorily completed and formed the
basis for the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND) and for other external
aid to the Government from ADB and bilateral agencies. The project's training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and continues to be implemented
by the Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date:  August 13, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started and the last
contracts for 44 km are about to be signed. Some problems in executing the
road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 and delays were
encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a slower rate of
progress than scheduled. The project is about 20% complete. The delays
combined with slow progress indicate that the project will probably be
completed about 15-18 months after the loan's present Closing Date.
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and technical assistance to be disbursed.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated. The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be fully
disbursed by the new closing date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and has slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The financial position of the state shipping company (PELNI) is
unsatisfactory, and further deterioration could cause financial problems for
the project entity (PANN). The Government has decided on a method of dealing
with this problem which will be discussed during the next supervision mission
in early 1979. Commitments under the loan were US$13.8 million in September
1978 and are expected to increase sharply during 1979. Disbursements of
US$84.4 million in September 1978 are also expected to increase sharply. The
loan is not expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date and an extension
is likely to be granted.



-44 -                ANNEX II
Page 20 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tan-jung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976: Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo by about 2.5%; about 5.6 million tons handled,
an increase of 4% over 1976. The first construction contract for Basin III
civil works and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let.
However, the land required for the Regional Harbor contract was not released
by the Army as promised and work on this contract will not start until
December 1978; container handling and other equipment is being procured on
schedule. There continues to be delays in completing the government-financed
works in Basin III; although the problems have now largely been resolved,
execution continues to be slow and completion is now scheduled for July 1979.
Work on the Bank-financed project in Basin III is continuing. Good progress
continues on revising accounting procedures and in related staff training.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and all contracts have been
placed or are about to be placed. Project execution is behind schedule due
to initial slow procurement and execution of works. A deferment of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1979 will be needed. Freight and passenger traffic
declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However some improvements
were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new locomotives and
rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of consultants. The
financial performance of the railway is deteriorating due mainly to the
declining traffic in 1976 and to increasing costs including a large wage
raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being reviewed with the
railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979. The construction of the hotel training school has been completed.
The completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is
scheduled for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project
appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 31% in 1976
and by a further 8% in 1977 to 286,000 visitors. Despite considerable efforts
made by the Bali Tourism Development Board and the Bank Group in promoting



-45 -              ANNEX II
Page 21 of 21 pages
hotel investment at Nusa Dua no hotel investors have yet come forward. It
is'therefore highly unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua could be completed
by the end of 1979 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure. However,
the Executive Directors have just approved changes in the project description
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction which
may encourage hotel investment at an earlier date.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved. About
2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are expected to
be settled by December 1978.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date:  May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about
15% above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for
major civil works have been signed. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering has been completed and the establishment and development
of local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978,
the Government issued an interministerial decree defining relationships
between the various Ministries and the water enterprises. This is expected
to help expedite current and future projects in the sector.



- 46 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
Suppplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) time taken to prepare project: six months;
(b)  project preparation coordinated by:  the Department of Education
and Culture with the help of UNESCO;
(c)  first presented to the Association:  December 1977;
(d)  first mission to consider project:  February 1978;
(e)  departure of appraisal mission:  February 1978;
(f)  follow-up missions to further discuss the project:  July 1978;
(g)  completion of negotiations:  November 8, 1978;
(h)  planned credit effectiveness:  April 1979.
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government is
(i)  to establish within six months of the opening of the Technician
Education Development Center (TEDC) and each polytechnic an
industrial advisory board for TEDC and for each polytechnic
with functions and composition acceptable to the Association
(para. 36);
(ii)  to review the project technician training component and submit
the result of this review to the Association by December 31,
1984 (para. 39);
(iii)  to submit annually to the Association for comments and there-
after to implement a schedule for implementing training,
material development and research at the four accountancy
training centers (para.40);



- 47 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) to maintain the project management authority, TEDC, the six
polytechnics and the four accountancy training centers during
the execution of the project and keep them staffed with
qualified staff (para. 43);
(v) to establish by June 30, 1980 a central procurement advisory
service unit for education projects in the Department of
Education and Culture with staffing satisfactory to the
Association (para. 43); and
(vi) to submit to the Association for comment by December 31, 1980,
and thereafter implement an equipment maintenance and control
system (para. 43).
(b) A condition of the effectiveness of the Credit would be the signing
of contracts acceptable to the Association for the professional
services for all the polytechnics and for the technical assistance
related to the polytechnic program (para 45).






- ~~ ~~~     ~~~ QD6r 3C                             .6Zi .6Io,                                                                                                                           i-                                   w.osl03
szlrl |  {> -i  vgwns \ \ ,0l vavess3lvs<sl3v3.93~~~~~~~~~w"
_   S   Cllr     33Z       CAZ        1101        0                                                                                                                                                                      UP9  a   bi7!P  /                                                             o;v3 Gi
_ 1 4 - >, , _ _ _ < , < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,__53 Oi ''  SI     nZ I _ 
D   !  --   - t  !                                                                                                        E         X   *<         4--   +           t       -; 6Ujeo           nvnsil3 k  /                                               H3DV AS    1 t B    z
'   7--                                rar   tsPbr>                  1                        J                                                        V                w                      *--  _           ._                                         Vu31vwn3n3nM GAk~s wn
Z   |                                                                                                                                      Z    \    I    ~~~~~   I   go   r   _  ~~~~~  *  j (i) @/ a t~~~~~~~ US v beYViSOt Au illes3l AVED3d3 i~~~~~~~~~V/
i   \   ! '                                                                       1  -,          9    ,                         :             f         VR.   xS7Xpr                                                                      ela3jfizaOllaS31UVAlravrilOg33dfi S    3T---  v"
~~ C) < . ~~ ^ -{G7 / g r_ = g _\ V~~~AVrw3t3,
z ~            ~            ~            ~           >        '2                           , zif'                                      i            0 tr                          ;?                  - E0a                    ;tO t                            )                                      _
n  -V iV   ; r                         V.NVFi8,>1- >   ,     *         
5j3teN4o31V0Ol-2N3a1N~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~   ~          ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                A W>l {O_V                         I V, v                                                                   :
58 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ' 3i3         N Ig lNI HW333  d                                                                                                                                           N.I  H. li i- 



