                                            CONFORMED COPY




                                         LOAN NUMBER 8112-RO




     Loan Agreement


       (Third Development Policy Loan)


                  between


                 ROMANIA


                    and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




          Dated December 20, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated December 20, 2011, entered into between ROMANIA (“Borrower”)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b)
the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The
Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million Euro (EUR
        400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
        the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.
                                          -2-



2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and
                                          -3-


        (c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
               that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
               Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
               specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                    ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

                ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
        the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date of one hundred and fifty (150) days after
        the date of this Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Public Finance or
        whomever the minister delegates to.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministry of Public Finance
        17 Apolodor Street
        Bucharest
        Romania

                                 Telex:                Facsimile:

                                 11239                 4021 312 6792

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America
                                 -4-



Cable address:         Telex:                  Facsimile:

INTBAFRAD              248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.        64145(MCI)


AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.



                       ROMANIA



                       By /s/Gheorghe Ialomitianu
                                              Authorized Representative




                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                       By /s/ Catalin Pauna
                                               Authorized Representative
                                         -5-


                                   SCHEDULE 1

                  Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.     Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.      The Borrower has approved the MTEF 2012-2014.

2.      The Borrower has enacted Law No. 285/2010 on pay in the public sector for the
        Fiscal Year 2011.

3.      The Parliament has adopted a law amending Law No. 95/2006 on the reform in
        the health sector which introduces co-payment and exemption mechanisms and
        said law has been promulgated.

4.      The Borrower has approved a new Framework for Electronic Prescription
        Management.

5.      The Borrower has enacted the Law No. 1/2011 on national education, as
        amended allowing all schools in Romania to receive their budgets according to a
        per capita finance formula.

6.      The Borrower has enacted Law No. 276/2010 amending the Law No. 416/2001
        on the guaranteed minimum income transferring the programming of budget for
        guaranteed minimum income to the Ministry of Labor, Family and Social
        Protection and transferring the attributions related to benefits payments from
        local governments to the National Agency for Social Benefits, while keeping the
        entitlement and recertification attributions with the local governments.

7.      The Borrower has enacted Law No. 277/2010 on the family benefits, as
        amended, regulating income-tested family benefits and reducing the maximum
        eligibility threshold from 470 RON to 370 RON per month per capita and
        offering higher benefits to households earning less than 200 RON and single
        parent families.

8.      The Borrower has reviewed the adequacy of supervisory arrangements in the
        Memorandum of Understanding among the financial regulators of financial
        groups operating in Romania.
                                           -6-


Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
        The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                                     Amount of the Loan Tranche
                                                             Allocated
                      Allocations                       (expressed in Euro)

         Single Withdrawal Tranche                            400,000,000

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                         400,000,000


C.      Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
        Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
        is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with
        the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

E.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
                into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
                and

        2.      the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Bank.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
        Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
        at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
        Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
        refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
        refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
                                    -7-



G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
                                           -8-


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                  Amortization Schedule


           The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on September
1, 2023.
                                         -9-


                                    APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
                         112                                  Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                              manufactured, tobacco
                                                              refuse
                         122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                              (whether or not containing
                                                              tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                              materials
                         667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                              semiprecious stones,
                                                              unworked or worked
                         718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements
                                                              (cartridges), non-
                                                              irradiated, for nuclear
                                                              reactors
                         728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                              machinery
                         897             897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                              platinum group metals
                                                              (except watches and watch
                                                              cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                              silversmiths’ wares
                                      - 10 -


                                                            (including set gems)
                      971                                   Gold, non-monetary
                                                            (excluding gold ores and
                                                            concentrates)

     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
             agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
             (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
             satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

2.   “Framework for Electronic Prescription Management” means the Borrower’s
     action plan for the implementation of electronic prescription as set forth in the
     Borrower’s joint Order signed by the Minister of Health and the President of the
     National Health Insurance House No.1520/893 and dated November 3, 2011.

3.   “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.   “Insurance Supervision Commission” means the Borrower’s autonomous
     administrative body functioning according to the law on the insurance activity
     and the supervision of insurances, No. 32 dated April 3, 2000, as amended.

5.   “Law No. 1/2011” means the Borrower’s national education law No. 1 dated
     January 5, 2011, as amended (Published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No.
     18 dated January 10, 2011)

6.   “Law No. 285/2010” means the Borrower’s law regarding pay in the public
     sector for 2011, No. 285 dated December 28, 2010 (Published in the Borrower’s
     Official Gazette No. 878 dated December 28, 2010).
                                        - 11 -


7.    “Law No. 95/2006” means the Borrower’s law regarding the reform in the health
      sector No. 95 dated April 14, 2006, as amended (published in the Borrower’s
      Official Gazette No. 372 of April 28, 2006).

8.    “Law No. 276/2010” means the Borrower’s law No. 276 amending the Law No.
      416/2001 on the guaranteed minimum income, dated December 24, 2010
      (Published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 888 dated of December 30,
      2010).

9.    “Law No. 416/2001” means the Borrower’s law No. 416 on guaranteed minimum
      income dated July 18, 2001, as amended (Published in the Borrower’s Official
      Gazette No. 401 dated July 20, 2001).

10.   “Law No. 277/2010” means the Borrower’s law No. 277 on family benefits dated
      December 24, 2010, as amended (Published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
      No. 889 dated December 30, 2010).

11.   “MTEF” means the Borrower’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework approved
      by the Borrower on August 10, 2011.

12.   “Memorandum of Understanding” means the memorandum on cooperation in the
      field of financial stability and financial crisis management entered into by the
      Ministry of Public Finance, the National Bank of Romania, the National
      Securities Commission, the Insurance Supervision Commission and the Private
      Pension System Supervisory Commission dated July 31, 2007.

13.   “Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Protection” means the Borrower’s
      ministry in charge of labor, family and social protection or any successor thereto.

14.   “Ministry of Public Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry of public finance or
      any successor thereto.

15.   “National Agency for Social Benefits” means the Borrower’s agency
      subordinated to the Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Protection and
      established pursuant to the Borrower’s Emergency Ordinance No. 116/2007
      regarding the establishment and functioning of the National Agency for Social
      Benefits, as amended, or any successor thereto.

16.   “National Bank of Romania” means the Borrower’s National Bank.

17.   “National Securities Commission” means the Borrower’s autonomous
      administrative body functioning according to the Emergency Ordinance
      regarding the approval of the National Securities Commission By-Law, No. 25
      dated March 13, 2002, as amended.
                                         - 12 -


18.     “Private Pension System Supervisory Commission” means the Borrower’s
        autonomous administrative body established pursuant to the Emergency
        Ordinance regarding the establishment, organization and functioning of the
        Private Pension System Supervisory Commission, No. 50 dated June 9, 2005 as
        amended.

19.     “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
        referred to in the letter dated November 25, 2011 from the Borrower to the Bank
        declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
        requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
        execution.

20.     “RON” means the Borrower’s local currency.

21.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                                     - 13 -


            under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
            shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
            support of which the Loan is made.”
