Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17358-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO FRF 297,600,000
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR LOAN
February 13, 1998
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = TUnisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00 = TD 1.08
TD I = US$0.91
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMG   Assistance Medicale Gratuite
APL    Adaptable Program Loan
BHS    Basic Health Services
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DB      Directorate of Civil Works
DE      Directorate of Equipment
DEP    Directorate of Studies and Planning
DF      Directorate of Finance
DO      Development Objectiyes
DTH    Directorate in charge of hospitals (Direction de la Tutelle des H6pitaux)
EU      European Union
EPS    Public Tertiary Hospitals (Ftablissements publics de sante)
FP      Family Planning
GOT    Government of Tunisia
HNP    Health Nutrition and Population
HS      Highly Satisfactory
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Develbpment
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IP     Implementation Performance
LACI   Loan Administration Change Initiative
MCH    Maternal and Child Health
MOH   Ministry of Public Health
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NHA    National Health Account
NMES  National Medical Emergency Services
NHIS   National Health Information' System
PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development (Japanese Government grant)
PIP     Public Investment Program
PJD     Project Justification Document
S       Satisfactory
SA      Special Account
SAMU  Service d 'Aide A,Vdicale Urgente
SIML   Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan
TD      Tunisian Dinars
U       Unsatisfactory
U1NFPA United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID (United States) Agency for International Development
WHO   World Health Organization
ZOPP   Ziel orienterte Projekt Planuing (Planification des Projets par Objectifs)
Vice President: Kemal Dervi,
Country Director:  Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Staff Members:  Eva Jarawan / Claire Voltaire



Republic of Tunisia
Health Sector Loan
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ..............................................................I
Block 1: Project Description ........                ......................................................2
1. Project Development Objectives ..............................................................2
2. Project Components ..............................................................2
A. Facilitation of Sector Reforms and Key Actions ..............................................................2
B. Priority Sector Investments ..............................................................2
C. Institutional Strengthening in Health Policy and Planning ...........................................................3
3. Benefits and Target Population ..............................................................3
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ............................................................3
Block 2: Project Rationale ..............................................................5
5. CAS Objectives Supported by the Project ..............................................................5
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ....................                       ..........................................5
7. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ................................... ...............6
8. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ..............................................................6
9. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies .............                           ................7
10. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design .............................................7
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                              ..............................................8
12.Value Added of Bank Support ...............................................8
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments ..............................................8
13. Economic Assessment ..............................................8
14. Financial Assessment ...............................................9
15. Technical Assessment ...............................................9
16. Institutional Assessment ...............................................9
17. Social Assessment ...............................................9
18. Environmental Assessment ..............................................                                                     10
19. Participatory Approach ............................................... 0
20. Sustainability ...............................................10
21. CriticalRisks ..............................................                                                                 10
22. Possible Controversial Aspects ...............................................11
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions ..............................................                                                          11
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................................  12
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex  2: Detailed Project Description
Annex  3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Development Strategy Letter
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex  7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex  8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statements of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Tunisia at a Glance






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Group
Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Tunisia
Health Sector Loan
Date: February 13, 1998                                                     [1  Draft  [X    Final
I Task Manager: Eva Jarawan                              Country Director: Christian Delvoie         U
Project ID: 5746  Sector: Health, Nutrition and Population  POC: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan   PTIP        [] Yes    [X] No
Project Financing Data    [X ] Loan      []Credit     [ Guarantee        []Other ISpecify]
For Loans/Credi hers.
Amount (FRF): 297,600,000 (equivalent to US$50M)
Proposed Terms:         [ ] To be defined    [ ] Multicurrency           [X] Single currency
Grace period (years): 5 years      [X]  Standard Variable  []  Fixed   [X] PIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17 years
Commitment fee:  0.75 %
Service charge: NA
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                          Local                  Foreign             Total
Government                                       38.0                   13.0               51.0
Cofinanciers
IBRDIIDA                              _       .                         50.0               50.0
Other                                 _                         _                    _
Borrower: Government of Tunisia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Public Health
I Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):               1999     2000       2001     2002      2003
Annual   10        12        12        12        4
Cumulative   10       22        34        46        50
Expcted Closing DIae: De.eui  31, 20o
Expected Closing Date: December 31, 2002                                                            |.



2
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators)
The Bank will support a program of major health reforms from 1998 to 2001 which contains four strategic objectives: (i)
improving the macroefficiency of public investments; (ii) improving the microefficiency of operations through
management reforms; (iii) enhancing the financial sustainability of publicly supported operations through introduction of
policy measures with regard to cost controls; and (iv) reinforcing the quality of services through improved case
management and staff training.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
The operational objectives and key actions needed to achieve them are described in detail in the ninth Plan document, and
have been summarized in an operational matrix (see Annex 2) which also includes a timetable and defines responsibility
for implementation. They focus mainly on: strengthening the referral system, improving the utilization of resources and
the efficiency of the delivery system, ensuring the integration of the private sector in the overall system, and strengthening
the Government's capacity for planning, regulating, and monitoring. The Plan also includes measures aiming at a greater
decentralization towards regional authorities.
Bank Support: The Government has requested that the Bank focus its intervention on (i) facilitating the development of
sector reforms; (ii) supporting the strengthening of regional hospitals, medical emergency services, and the National
Health Information System (NHIS); and (iii) contributing to institutional strengthening in health policy and planning. To
that end, the proposed lending instrument (sector investment and maintenance loan: SIML) provides the flexibility needed
to take into account the rapid evolution of the sector and the MOH capacity and experience in implementing Bank
projects. Investments eligible for financing would be selected annually from the annual investrnent budget on the basis of
progress in implementation of the key actions above and according to pre-set criteria (elaborated below). The activities to
be financed by the loan fall under the following:
A. Facilitation of Sector Reforms and Key Actions
Progress is being made in implementing sector reforms. Significant achievements have been attained during the
implementation of the eighth Plan and efforts to reform the sector will continue in the context of the ninth Plan and will
be supported by this project. An operational matrix has been prepared by Government officials (see Annex 2) in
collaboration with the Bank task team. It lists the strategic objectives as they appear in the ninth Plan, the ensuing
operational objectives and the key actions needed to achieve them. A timetable as well as the agency responsible for the
implementation of each action are indicated in the matrix.
Key actions that are being developed in the ninth Plan aim at: ensuring that regional hospitals carry out their function
of initial referral and provide specialized care to their communities, thus relieving the teaching hospitals of an activity for
which they are not efficient; redefining the functions of the central level and the regional directorates while strengthening
the management autonomy of public hospitals; extending the billing experience and a simplified version of the other
management tools successfully introduced in teaching hospitals, to other facilities; introducing mechanisms for
controlling costs (capitation and global budgets as possible options); and, developing policy toward a greater role for the
private sector in delivery and financing of health care. The operational matrix mentioned above represents the action plan
for this component. There will be financing for technical assistance (both local and international), studies, seminars, and
training.
B. Priority Sector Investments
Investments to be supported would be selected from line items of the annual investment budget which would have passed
through the Tunisian review process. This review ensures conformity with sectoral objectives and strategies defined in
the ninth Plan. Selection for financing by the Loan would occur through annual consultations between the Bank and



3
MOH prior to budget finalization, based on criteria developed during preparation. For example, one criterion for
approving renovation or equipment in a regional hospital is whether the hospital is considered a priority in the ninth Plan.
During the pre-appraisal mission, criteria for deciding whether a proposed investment should be Bank-financed were
discussed and resulted in the preparation of a project justification document (PJD). This tool will be used not only for
decision-making on financing investments, but also to build capacity in planning, economic analysis, and quality
assurance at the regional and hospital levels. With respect to the investment program for 1998, the Bank team reviewed
sub-project documentation and endorsed the program as it represents minimum and essential investments in regional
hospitals. Additional investments in other sub-sectors, particularly the NHIS and the NMES were also identified. The
1998 program was finalized during negotiations. For following years, such documentation will be submitted annually
prior to the finalization of the following year budget.
C. Institutional Strengthening in Health Policy and Planning
To carry out the above, the MOH and particularly the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP) should be strengthened
under the project in order to improve its capacity for planning, policy analysis, and financial management. This will
involve appropriate training in policy analysis and formulation, study tours for selected senior staff to examine approaches
in other countries, and consensus-building seminars. The project would also assist in establishing national health accounts
(preliminary work has been launched) and in improving the reporting and financial management system.
D. The following table summarizes the main program activities to be supported by the loan:
omponent                            Category            Indicative Costs       % of Total
A. Facilitation of sector reforms and key actions     Policy                   5.0                  5
B. Priority Sector Investments                  Physical, Institution-        91.0                 90
building
C. Institutional strengthening in national      Institution-building           5.0                  5
health policy and planning
Total         101.0                100
3. Benefits and target population
The project will support the implementation of the national health strategy. Its benefits include: improved access to, and
quality of, existing hospital services in the regions (secondary level of care); enhanced efficiency, improved utilization of
resources; and greater patient and provider satisfaction. Overall, improving access, quality, and efficiency will benefit all
stakeholders. Patients will benefit through higher quality and more accessible services. Providers and decision-makers
will have better tools to manage resources and to deliver quality services. The rationalization of the National Medical
Emergency Services System will improve awareness of the importance of preventive measures and cross-sectoral
collaboration and provide emergency units with the means to improve the quality, speed and efficiency of their services.
Access to information on morbidity and mortality trends as well as on utilization of resources will enable decision-makers
to rationalize planning and respond more effectively to patients' needs, health market trends, and stakeholders' concerns.
The technical assistance and training component will develop the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health for
planning, monitoring and quality assurance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be the executing agency of the project which will be implemented over a four-and a
half year period (1998-2002). Since activities of this project are a subset of the ninth five-year Plan, their implementation
will be carried out through existing MOH channels. Procurement and disbursement arrangements are described in Annex
6.



4
Project Oversight: The Project Oversight Committee (Comite de Pilotage) would be headed by the Minister of Health and
composed of representatives of the Ministries of Economic Development, Cooperation and Finance, as well as of the
Secretary General, the Director General for Health, and all concerned units' directors in the MOH. It will meet on a
regular basis, at least 3 times a year, to ensure the complementarity and coherence of all project activities with the
strategic directions of the ninth Plan as well as their efficient implementation.
Project Coordination: The Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP) will be responsible for overall coordination. This
will include responsibilities which are part of its natural mandate, such as coordination for the planning, budgeting, and
programming of all planned activities and investments, with other departments and regions. The DEP which is
responsible for preparation of the five-year Plans and participates in the negotiations of annual budgets with the
Government, would also lead the annual discussions with the Bank to select investments eligible for Bank financing, as
well as monitor progress on all these activities. The DEP will be strengthened (in terms of resources, organization and
availability of management system) to increase its capacity to manage by objectives. Finally, coordination will be
facilitated by the introduction of a flexible project management software to which all departments will have access.
Project implementation: The capacity of each directorate involved (the Directorates of Finance (DF), Equipment (DE)
and Civil Works (DB)) has been assessed and found to be adequate overall. The capacity of the Hospitals Directorate
(DTH) will be strengthened by clarifying its mandate and securing the services of additional staff. In addition, two
special units, for the NHIS and the NMES, have been created and staffed respectively in the DEP and in the Directorate
General for Health to provide these two new activities with the momentum for development and the visibility needed to
rally all stakeholders. Institutional arrangements will also strengthen the functional links between the center and the
regions, by clarifying their respective mandates, as well as the resource allocation methodology and detailed criteria for
eligibility of investments under the loan.
Financial Management: The financial and accounting management capacity of the MOH has been assessed and found
overall satisfactory (see reports of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions). To enhance the existing computerized financial
and accounting management systems and provide the project units and financiers with the data needed to fully monitor the
project, a computerized administrative and financial management system was developed and will be implemented by end
March 1998, with a procedural manual and electronic link between all departments concerned. Through this system and
the standard financial management systems, the MOH would maintain project accounts in formats acceptable to all
stakeholders (DEP, Central Bank, auditors, Ministry of Finance) and to the Bank.
Audits: An annual audit of projects accounts (including opinion on use of Statements of Expenditure and Special
Account) will be carried out, in accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
Director of the DEP will ensure that all the audit reports are prepared and furnished to the Bank within agreed delays.
These audits will be carried out as follows: (i) for fiscal years 1998 and 2000 (that is the first year of the project and the
year preceding the tenth Plan), the financial audit will be complemented by a management audit and transmitted to the
Bank respectively by June 30, 1999 and June 30, 2001; and (ii) for fiscal years 1999, 2001 and 2002 only a financial audit
would be carried out and transmitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of the relevant project fiscal year. Terms of
reference for these audits have been agreed upon at negotiations.
Special Accun: To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would open a Special
Account in French Francs at the Central Bank. Administrative details of the Special Account are included in Annex 6.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The DEP would be responsible for monitoring progress against agreed
performance monitoring indicators (Annex 1). It would furnish to the Bank, by May 31 and November 30 of each year,
progress reports summarizing the status of implementation (reasons for deviation from the plan, constraints faced and
corrective actions to be taken) and the financial situation of the project. It would also present a procurement plan and
financial estimates for the subsequent year, and an update of the monitoring indicators (most of the sector-specific data to
be used to monitor project impact will be available through the National Health Information System). Two of these
reports will be more detailed: the first one will be prepared and transmitted to the Bank at the latest November 30, 1999
to serve as a basis to an early implementation review so as to permit the rapid introduction of the remedial measures



which may be necessary; the second one will be provided to the Bank by November 30, 2000 as part of the mid-term
review to be conducted prior to the finalization of the tenth five-year Investment Plan. The MOH would also prepare an
Implementation Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date of the Bank loan.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS Objective(s) Supported by the Project Report No. 15799-TUN; Latest CAS discussion: June 25, 1996
Human resource development is a cornerstone of the Bank's assistance strategy which promotes quality services,
equitable access, and a financially sustainable system based on the efficient use of resources. The project is also fully in
line with the objectives of the Bank's HNP sector strategy (Paper no. SecM97-369; May 9, 1997) which are to assist
client countries to:
*   improve the health, nutrition and population outcomes of the world's poor and to protect the population from the
impoverishing effects of illness, malnutrition, and high fertility;
*   enhance the performance of the health care systems by promoting equitable access to preventive and curative health,
nutrition and reproductive services that are affordable, effective, well-managed, of good quality, and responsive to
clients; and
*   secure sustainable health care financing by mobilizing adequate levels of financial resources, establishing broad-based
risk pooling mechanisms, and by maintaining effective control over public and private expenditure.
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
Over the last decade, Tunisia has experienced an evolution characteristic of most middle-income countries:
* A concomitant growth in demand and cost for health care.
* The epidemiological profile reflects a pattern typical of a country undergoing demographic and epidemiologic
transition. Despite significant decline in fertility, population growth remains high at 1.7% per year. Infectious
diseases still persist, yet a concurrent rise in chronic conditions characteristic of an aging population is apparent.
*  Despite efforts to develop rural health services, disparities between populations (rural vs. urban) with regard to their
health status and utilization of health services still exist, while at the same time the needs and expectations of a more
urban, more demanding, better educated, aging population are growing.
*  Despite important realizations of the eighth Plan, inefficiencies in the service delivery system persist: inappropriate
use of the teaching hospitals due to the lack of an effective referral system; regional hospitals do not offer many of the
basic medical specialties.
*  The increasing number of trained health professionals, the restrictions in their recruitment in the public sector and the
improved living standards of the population have prompted an expanding private sector (especially outpatient
services). This sector which offers a more attractive reception and hotel services, is not regulated with respect to cost
controls and quality assurance.
*  Financing mechanisms penalize adequate operation of both the public and private sectors. These financing
mechanisms support the development and operation of a large and dominating public sector.
*  The contribution of health insurance funds has not evolved significantly as a share of public resources. Total
allocations from compulsory social insurance funds to the public sector do not correspond to the volume and cost of
the services provided to their members. A substantial portion of subsidization is accruing to high income groups with
the ability and willingness to pay for health care.



6
* Finally, there are issues typically associated with public sector management, and a need to reduce bureaucratic
obstacles, to build up accountability, and to facilitate moreflexible oversight of the entire system.
Govenment Strategy: The National Health Strategy that led to the actions included in the plan was the result of a number
of studies (some intersectoral) and an intense dialogue among the various stakeholders. It was initiated during the eighth
five-year Plan, with Bank support through the Population and Family Health project and the Hospital Restructuring
project. It is based on the principles of universal coverage of care, equity, quality, and openness of the system to new
developments in the field, a system that would operate on the basis of complementarity of providers and financiers and
cost-effectiveness of services. The ninth Plan document describes in detail the strategic goals, the operational objectives,
and the actions needed to achieve them. Among the operational measures, the strategy focuses on strengthening the
referral system, improving the utilization of resources and the efficiency of the delivery system, ensuring the integration
of the private sector in the overall system, and strengthening the Government's capacity for planning, regulating, and
monitoring. The Plan includes an increased decentralization in favor of regional authorities (see Annex 4 for the
Government's letter on sector development strategy).
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The GOT has been tackling the above issues in an incremental approach starting with the restructuring of the 22 largest
hospitals, improving the quality of basic health services, and reforming of the AMG system. This project will continue
this effort and will focus on those priority components which are feasible from an economic, political, social, and
institutional perspective. The principal issues which will be addressed under the proposed project are:
*  The disparities between different areas (urban or rural) by implementing an investment strategy for the sector that
takes into account the needs of the regions and their existing public and private capacity.
_ Efficiency by making management at the central and regional levels more relevant, expanding the National Health
Information System, rationalizing the investment program, and improving incentives to providers and patients.
*  Quality by improving infrastructure and processes, introducing incentives for providers for improved quality of
service delivery, and developing the national Health Information System which will contribute to improving case
management and monitoring of quality.
-  Financing mechanisms. Putting in place a HMIS will facilitate the dialogue on the health insurance reform between
the MOH and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The project will monitor the implementation of critical policy and
institutional reforms agreed upon through conditionalities.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
*   Traditional investment project. The Bank's dialogue with Tunisian authorities on critical policy and institutional
reforms has been very fruitful and has resulted in significant positive developments in the past few years. The Bank
has collaborated closely with the Tunisian officials in the development of the national health strategy. A sector
investment and maintenance loan (SIM) rather than a traditional loan is preferred because it allows the Bank to
support the GOT in addressing comprehensive sectoral issues, while providing necessary flexibility to begin
implementation within a reasonable time frame. Another clear advantage of the SIM is the total integration of the
implementation arrangements within the organizational structure of the MOH, therefore contributing to management
capacity building (see Block 1, section 4).
*  Adaptable lending loan. Our experience of previous health projects in Tunisia and our recent discussions with the
MOH confirm that it takes on average 3 years to complete simple hospital renovations. Moreover, neither the
financial nor the supervision capacity of the MOH would enable them to start all sites in the first year of the project.
So, even if the bidding documents are ready by effectiveness, it is unlikely that all civil works activities will be
completed in 3 years, the normal duration of an APL.



7
Strengthen regulation of private sector. Given the growing importance of the private sector in service delivery, there
is an increasing need for strengthening regulation. Since the health insurance reform under discussion and the
proposed development of the NHIS will affect the behavior of the private sector, it was decided to continue to tackle
this issue incrementally: Discussions with the private sector have been underway through the Bank's sector work on
Public/Private Mix which included a number of workshops, and through the PHRD-funded private health sector
assessment which resulted in a widely-represented high-level seminar and recommendations. The development of the
National Health Information System through the project will provide the tool for further discussions with the private
sector and will improve the public sector's capacity to measure and monitor the services provided in the private
sector. Moreover, the Project Justification Document which provides the tool for the selection of investments to be
financed under this project, will provide an accurate assessment of the existing capacity (public and private), the
degree of overlap, and the potential areas of collaboration (e.g. making use of services in the private sector rather than
introducing them in the public sector, or vice-versa).
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Objective                                     Project            Latest Form
590 Ratings
Bank-financed                                                 Population I Project -           IP: S-
Cr. 238-TUN of US$12.5         DO: HS
- Improved access to FP and MCH services and increased capacity in    million approved in FY71,
paramedical staff.                                            completed in 1981
- Integrate, in 8 govemorates, FP services with preventive and curative  Population and Health Project  IP: U
care, nutrition, and health education and sanitation. The project also    II - Ln 2005-TUN of US$12.5  DO: S
introduced MIS system and strengthened the country's training system.  million, approved in FY82 and
completed in 1989.
- Lower fertility and mortality by targeting integrated BHS/FP services  Population and Family Health  IP: S-
to underprivileged groups with a strong focus on MCH.         Project - Ln 3307-TUN of        DO: HS
US$26 million approved in
FY91; completion expected
3/1998.
- Supporting the Government reform program to (i) improve internal    Hospital Restructuring support  IP: S-
efficiency and quality of services while controlling costs in its major    Project - Ln 3308-TUN of  DO: S
hospitals and (ii) facilitate the introduction of new financial burden-  US$30.0 million approved in
sharing adjustments through the formulation of data to link actual  FY91; completion expected
utilization of services with financial contributions by insured and non-   September 1998.
poor uninsured patients.
Other development agencies
Primary health services, organization of the district level.  WHO, UNICEF
Family planning and reproductive health services.             USAID (prior to 1994),
UNFPA, EU
10. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
Success of projects in Tunisia has been dependent upon: (i) the degree of integration of the project's objectives and
concepts in the overall Government strategy; (ii) sufficient consideration being given to Tunisia's preference for
incremental reforms rather than "big-bang approaches"; (iii) the degree of efforts put into building consensus around the



8
project's concept; (iv) the attention given to ensuring adequate operating resources; and (v) the appropriate management
of human resources. These lessons have been fully incorporated by the Government and the Bank in the development of
this project: (i) the project's objectives and activities are an integral part of the health sector and are translated
operationally in the ninth five-year Plan (1997-2001) which the Government has just prepared. The definition of this
strategy and the priority options retained have relied on a number of studies, some of which carried out with Bank support
in the context of on-going projects (i.e. cost-containment and financing options elaborated in the Hospital restructuring
Project) or as part of our dialogue (i.e. definition of a basic package and cost-effectiveness studies as part of the Maghreb
health priorities study; analysis of the role of the private sector carried out jointly with the Bank). With regard to
consensus building, the Government has proceeded with extensive consultations from all stakeholders to develop its ninth
Plan. In the preparation of this project, participants from the Finance, Cooperation, and Social Affairs ministries have
been invited to attend the planning workshops, as well as regional directors and hospital directors. Finally, the choice of
the flexible lending instrument adopted reflects both the continuity in the Bank-Tunisia collaboration in the sector and the
need to be able to adapt quickly to the pace of evolution of the sector.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The project has been requested by the Government, who has defined the timetable for its preparation so as to coincide
with the completion of its strategy. The project objectives, scope and content are a subset of this strategy. A fully staffed
preparation team was appointed during identification of the project, and a facilitator recruited to assist the team in
developing the detailed logical framework (German ZOPP methodology) of the project, its monitoring indicators and
timetable. Two planning workshops were carried out to define detailed objectives, outcome expected and monitoring
indicators (see Annex 1). Sub-groups of the preparation team worked respectively on strengthening the regional hospitals,
the National Medical Emergency Services, and on developing the National Health Information System. They produced
detailed working documents that describe the investment component in terms of objectives, operational program, key
actions, likely risks, and proposed work plan for implementation schedule. These were discussed with the Bank team and
have served as the basis for the preparation of the annexes for the PAD.
12. Value added of Bank support
- Technical expertise and experience in health sector reforms.
- Reliable partner in a continued reform process which started with the Hospital Restructuring Support Project.
- International experience with respect to: (i) reinforcing the private sector, (ii) financing issues, and (iii) sector
organization.
Flexible lending instrument (SIML) which offers the MOH the opportunity to strengthen its management, monitoring
and evaluation capacity as well as its financial and planning functions.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment (see detailed economic analysis in project files).
The project components provide a logical set of activities to improve public sector quality and efficiency. Management
and policy-making capacity at all levels of the system will also improve. The rationale for public intervention and the use
of this particular form of intervention, i.e. focus on developing regional hospitals and strengthening medical emergency
services is demonstrated by the current and projected expenditure levels for those services, in the National Health
Accounts projections for the year 2001. The fraction of total inpatient services provided by the public sector is projected to
be over one half, and approximately 20% of total hospital services are expected to come from the regional hospital system.
While there will be substantial continued growth in the private sector over this period, no plausible scenario suggests
reduction of the regional hospitals' role in providing care. Furthermore, based on 1995 spending, it appears that targeting
regional hospitals and emergency services is of special help to low income population. The normal risks faced by a project
are present here, and are discussed in the working papers. Special concerns arise because the current health care system is
likely to undergo substantial change during the period of the project. The development of the National Health Accounts
(NHA) was considered as a high priority to facilitate consideration of the impact of reform on the sector, as well as to
monitor the project.



9
Fiscal Impact. The project is not expected to pose any significant fiscal burden. Rehabilitation and equipment of facilities
could generate new operating costs. Given the overstaffing and rigidly controlled salaries of employees in the public
sector, large increases in personnel costs are not likely to occur. Any increases in personnel costs may be offset by
improved internal operating and overall system efficiency.
14. Financial Assessment
The proposed IBRD loan of FRF297,600,000 (US$50 million equivalent) would support the ninth Plan. The Bank's
contribution would represent 15% of the total new commitments for investments in the ninth Plan. The balance would be
financed by the Government (70%), and the Social Security System (15%). The Bank loan would be applied to civil
works, goods, studies and training.
15. Technical Assessment
The MOH has carried out successfully and simultaneously two Bank-financed operations. Preparation of the ninth Plan
and of the project has involved extensive local participation. It has also involved senior level technical consultants in key
areas such as health insurance reforms, hospital administration, emergency services, the National Health Information
System, and financial management. Finally, in areas where information available is not sufficient to determine the
soundness of major investments, i.e. in medical emergency services, feasibility studies will be carried out in the first year
of project implementation.
16. Institutional Assessment
Implementation capacity: The MOH, which will be the executing agency, has extensive experience in implementing
Bank-financed projects, including the on-going Population and Family Health Project and the Hospital Restructuring
Reform Support Project. From a technical perspective, the MOH staff are well qualified to handle implementation, and in
particular management of civil works and equipment procurement, for which Tunisian guidelines are comparable to that of
the Bank. Delegation of credits and responsibility to the regions for carrying out certain activities such as civil works and
training has also been practiced through previous projects, and lessons drawn from past delays. The two main departments
(DEP and DTH) are being strengthened through training, staff reassignments, and clarification of mandates. In addition,
staff who have acquired extensive experience in implementing other Bank projects will serve as resource persons and will
be integrated to the project team. Project components will strengthen the regions' ability to plan, monitor progress and
implement their regional strategy, thus increasing their management capacity.
Financial Management capacity: A review of the financial management systems of the MOH has found that they are
largely consistent with Bank policies and guidelines. Two computerized systems are being used in the civil service,
which satisfactorily cover all aspects of financial management and accounting. A project management software has been
developed to facilitate on-time communication of information between departments participating, to link all activities of
the project, and to permit monitoring by both the coordination Unit and the Bank. Audits of the two on-going projects
have found the management of accounts overall satisfactory. Issues in that respect have concerned: (i) the delays in the
production of these audits (due in part to their exhaustivity); (ii) ambiguous interpretation of Bank procurement guidelines
when they differ from the Tunisian legislation.
17. Social Assessment
There should be no negative social consequences arising from the project. On the contrary, the project is expected to have
a positive social impact: it will support the implementation of the National Health Strategy which is based on the
principles of universal coverage, equity, quality and openness of the system to new developments in the field. Patients
will receive better quality care in facilities where providers and decision-makers are better trained to manage resources
and to deliver quality services. Stakeholder participation was sought throughout the design and preparation of the project.
Planning workshops using the German ZOPP methodology have been carried out to get input from various stakeholders.



10
18. Environmental Assessment             Environmental Category: B
The only project input which might have an environmental impact would be the rehabilitation of priority public health
facilities. A study of hospital solid waste disposal was carried out as part of the on-going operation and its
recommendations are being implemented. In addition, consideration will be given to the waste treatment/disposal capacity
at health facilities during the preparation of facility rehabilitation plan. The assessment of the capacity to handle hospital
waste will be a criterion for approving the investment sub-project. Furthermore, when required, an environmental
assessment report and/or mitigation plans, approved by the ANPE and satisfactory to the Bank, shall be submitted along
with the request to finance priority sector investment.
19. Participatory Approach                            Identification/      Implementation          Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups         COL                   COL                  COL
Intermediary NGOs            IS                   IS                   IS
Academic institutions        COL                   COL                   IS
Local government          COL                   COL                 COL
Other donors          IS                    IS                   IS
Private Sector        COL                   CON                 CON
IS: Information Sharing, CON: Consultation, COL: Collaboration
As mentioned in para. 17, stakeholder's participation was an integral part of the project's design and preparation.
20. Sustainability
The project will contribute to improving the economic efficiency of the delivery system, particularly through the regional
hospitals and the medical emergency services. At the same time, the HMIS to be put in place, will provide information
needed for rational decision-making. The GOT is developing National Health Accounts which will make it possible to
monitor the sources and uses of funds for the sector. The average annual increase in the recurrent budget has been
estimated at 8% over the period 1997-2001. In terms of financing of this budget, this would translate in a progressive
decrease of the share of the state from its actual 75% (1996) to 68% by 2001. In contrast, revenues are estimated to cover
11% of the budget compared to 8.9% in 1996, and the social security funds would finance 21% of the 2001 budget
compared to 16.4% in 1996.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk             Risk                     Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Project outputs to    Inadequate utilization of      MR      Financing of new investments subject to a number of
development objectives  available public resources           objective criteria, including the availability of private
(infrastructure, human and             resources.
financial)
Management reforms do not     MR       A wide range of stakeholders have been involved in project
lead to efficient utilization of      preparation, ensuring feasibility and technical soundness of
facilities                            proposed reforms, which have been successfully tested in
the largest 22 hospitals. Choice of lending instrument
(SIML) permits quick response if changes needed.
Services may not improve in   MR      Provide managers/ providers with basic tools for and
public sector                          training  in,  improving  services.  Promote  greater
complementarity between public and private sectors so as to
concentrate public resources on those essential services.



11
Provider payment reforms      MR      The reforms in the provider payment system so far have
may derail.                           been based on analytical studies and are sound. Involve
stakeholders in reforms. Pilot test and introduce reforns
incrementally.
Momentum for health           MR      There is significant commitment on the part of Government
insurance reform interrupted.         to proceed with reform  and broad consensus from  all
stakeholders on need for reform. Continue technical support
through on-going operations.
Project components to    Government may not adopt    MR      Commitment made through the preparation of the national
outputs               norms and standards for                health strategy and documented in the letter of sectoral
regional hospitals                    strategy; Government prepared project.
The various partners may      MR      Task force in charge of preparing this investment involves a
resist the development of             good representation of stakeholders; technical assistance
indicators for the NHIS               provided in the first year to ensure good start-up.
Weak coordination among all    SR     Economic analysis planned in the first year to provide
concerned with medical                strong arguments for coordination. The NMES unit will
emergencies                           follow-up on the results of the study and work with all
concerned to ensure coordination.
MOH/directorate of            MR      Action plan aimed at strengthening capacity of MOH is
planification weak capacity to        being finalized.
implement projects
Overall Risk Rating                                  MR
22. Possible Controversial Aspects
The development of the medical emergency services will necessitate a great deal of coordination among government
agencies involved. The private sector may be reticent to the strengthening of control measures by the MOH. Finally,
within the MOH, there is an on-going debate regarding the evolving roles of the central and regional levels in view of the
move towards increased decentralization.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
The Government has already transmitted its letter of health sector strategy (see Annex 4). The MOH has prepared an
operational matrix (Annex 2) presenting the key actions for the planned reforms. The PJD elaborated for use by hospitals
when preparing their investment proposals has also been pilot-tested. The document includes criteria for investments'
selection as part of the project. Two teams ("unites de gestion par objectifs") have been designated to develop
respectively the NMES and the HMIS. They are respectively attached to the Director General for Health and the DEP.
During negotiations, the following was transmitted to the Bank: (i) the terms of reference, and letter of invitation for the
Economic study on the NMES; (ii) the project management software output tables; and (iii) the standard bidding
document to be used for procurement of goods under ICB. The Bank was also informed of progress made to strengthen
the DEP and the DTH.
The following was also agreed during negotiations:
* Operational Matrix: Agreement was obtained on the contents of the matrix of key actions.
* Sector measures: It was agreed that the Bank may withhold further commitments for sector priority investment
proposals if progress in overall sector measures is not satisfactory.



12
*  Investment program: Agreement was obtained that the Borrower, through the DEP, shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank: (i) not later than April 30 of each Fiscal Year, for its review and comments, the Borrower's proposed health
sector investment program for the following Fiscal Year, along with the financing plan; and (ii) not later than May 31
in each Fiscal Year, for its review and approval, a detailed description of the priority sector investments proposed to
be financed under the loan.
*  Procurement: Agreement was obtained on the application of the Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
*  Accounting and Auditing: An annual audit of projects accounts (including an opinion on use of Statements of
Expenditure and Special Account) will be carried out, in accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The Director of the DEP will ensure that all the audit reports are prepared and furnished to
the Bank within agreed delays. These audits will be carried out as follows: (i) for fiscal years 1998 and 2000, the
financial audit will be complemented by a management audit and transmitted to the Bank respectively by June 30,
1999 and June 30, 2001; and (ii) for fiscal years 1999, 2001 and 2002 only a financial audit would be carried out and
transmitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the respective project fiscal year.
*  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: By May 31 and November 30 of each year, progress reports summarizing
the status of implementation (reasons for deviation from the plan, constraints faced and corrective actions to be taken)
and the financial situation of the project will be submitted to the Bank. It would also include a procurement plan and
financial estimates for the subsequent year, and an update of the monitoring indicators. Two of these reports will be
more detailed: the first one will be prepared and transmitted to the Bank at the latest November 30, 1999 to serve as a
basis for an early implementation review so as to permit the rapid introduction of any remedial measures which may
be necessary; the second one will be provided to the Bank by November 30, 2000 as part of the mid-term review to be
conducted prior to the finalization of the tenth five-year Investment Plan. The MOH would also prepare an
Implementation Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date of the Bank loan.
3 Environment: Agreement was obtained that when required, an environmental assessment report and/or mitigation
plans, approved by the ANPE and satisfactory to the Bank, shall be submitted along with the request to finance
priority sector investments for the creation of new facilities.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task~    C   '               'sti
Task  anager: Eva Jarawan    Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy  Country   ctr:   st  Delvoie



Annex 1
Tunisia Health Sector Loan
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators (OVI)                      Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions (A) and
Supervision                         Risks (R)
CAS Objectives:
Human Resource development is a                                                                                        (A) Modernization and global integration to
cornerstone of the Bank's assistance                                                                                   remain GOT's long-term objectives.
strategy which promotes quality
services, equitable access, and a                                                                                      (R) A radical change in Tunisia political
financially sustainable system based                                                                                  leadership and set-up, with a departure from
on the efficient use of resources.                                                                                     c
current government's long-term objectives.
Project Development Objectives:
The Bank loan will support a      Macroefficiency: medical care cost index                Efficiency: changes in       (A) Behavior change will lead to efficiency
program of major health reforms                                                           utilization rates (e.g.,     and quality gains;
from 1998 to 2001 which contains    Microefficiency: utilization rates and types of services;  increased use of generic  (R) Insufficient flexibility to allow for the
four strategic objectives: (i)    performance agreements (contrats-objectifs) apply to RHs as    drugs, increased use of  dec ent    flmanagement  dsons to
improving the macroefficiency of    well as EPSs and cover investment, recurrent, and human  outpatient care).        the facility level; momentum for health
public investment; (ii) improving  resources budget.                                                                   insurance reform interrupted
the microefficiency of operations  Quality: improved case management; client perceptions of  Quality: evaluation of facility
through management reforms; (ii)    access to, and use of, and satisfaction with health care  performance; patient and
enhancing the financial           services.                                               provider surveys.
sustainability of publicly supported
operations through introduction of    Sustainability: rates of growth in health care expenditures; unit  Sustainability: expenditure
policy measures with regard to cost   costs control; billing extended to all regional hospitals;  reviews; unit cost analysis.
controls; and, (iv) enhancing the  agreement with social security funds for billing of services
quality of services through       extended to RHs.
improved case management and
staff training
0



Project outputs:
1. Capability of regional hospitals to  1.1. Reduction of transfers of patients from regional and  1. I MOH progress reports,    1. (A) Current projects at other levels of
fulfill their increased range of  university hospitals for basic specialist care.         by region.                   health care are satisfactory;
functions.                        1.2. From 1998 to 2001, increases in the number of specialist   1.2 MOH progress reports,    (R): Management reforms do not lead to
consultations in regional hospitals.                    by region.                  efficient utilization of facilities; provider
payment reforms may derail
2. Sector planning improved       2. Production of well-developed planning documents which    2. Reports/analysis generated  2. (A) There is interest among government to
through use of information provided   utilize relevant and accurate data.                                              improve planning; (R) Information collected
by health information system                                                                                           and not applied to planning/management
processes; MOH/directorate of planification
weak capacity to implement projects
Result 1:                         1.1 Regional hospitals in capitals of governorates provided  - Special MOH reports.  (A) More uniform coverage of service costs;
with all basic specialties.                                                         Closer coordination among the various
the care delivery system.         1.2 Referral system established and gradually applied,  - Special MOH reports.       parties; and tdards for regional hospitals
including centers of excellence and sponsors (UHs-RHs).  - Progress reports.        information from private sector not reliable;
1.3 Management procedures manual for regional hospitals  - Special MOH reports.     resistance by staff and patients
prepared.
1.4 Ratio of emergency cases/Outpatients + emergency cases   - Progress reports.
reduced.
Result 2:                         2.1 Increasing use of afternoon consultations.          - Progress reports; budget   (A) Improved public/private
document.                   complementarity- financing of RHs
Improved utilization of available  2.2 Increased number of surgical operations per operating                           dependent on voiume and quality of care
resources (i.e. infrastructure, and  room and per surgeon.                                                             providedn Closer coordination among the
human~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rvdd Close coordinatio amongcs)                                                        the
human and financial resources).   2.3 Increase in collection ratio: own revenue/budget (i.e.                           various parties; (R) sufficient management
increase in own revenue).                                                           skills cannot be developed;
Result 3:                         3.1 Personnel legislation (by establishment) prepared and  - Progress reports; budget  (A) Financing of RHs dependent on volume
Additional resources mobilized (i.e.   complied with.                                     document.                    and quality of care provided; Closer
Addltlonal resources moblhzed (t.e.   .                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~coordination among the various parties; (R)
infrastructure, equipment, and    3.2 Improvement in budget coverage -- budgetary         - Progress reports; budget   Resistance to implementation from various
human and financial resources).   resources/debt ratio = I Reduction in budget deficit.   document.                    departments concerned
Result 4:                         4.1 Production of overall annual report by the end of the first   - Special MOH reports.  (A) Increased motivation of operators. Closer
More efficient information and    six-month period.                                                                    coordination among the various parties; (R)
More efficlent mformatlon and                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Various partners may resist the development  r 
evaluation system.                4.2 Production of a standardized annual report for each  - Special MOH reports.      of indicators for the NHIS                    a) D
establishment, during first quarter.                                                                                               r 
4.3 Reference standards available by end-December 2000.  - Special MOH reports.                                                    o
LhJ



Result 5:                         5.1 Existence of a permanent consultative body (HD,     - Organization chart; minutes  (A) Commitment made through the
Establishment of a more           manager, etc.) within regional hospitals.               of meetings.                 preparation of the National Health Strategy;
decentralized and participatory form   5.2 Regional participation in Budget preparation.  - Surveys.                  (R) Government resistance to decentralize
of management.                    5.3 Existence of projects at establishment level (i.e. action  - Production of project.
plans/strategic plans).
Result 6:                         6.1 Reduction in time taken to provide pre-hospital services.    - Survey.           (A) Cooperation from all parties;
Improved management of            6.2 Reduction in transfers of emergency patients to other  - Emergency records.     (R) Weak coordination among all concerned
emergency cases at all levels.    centers.                                                                             with medical emergencies
6.3 Reduction in waiting time in emergency services.    - Survey.
CD(D
x
0
LA






Annex 2
Page I of I1
Annex 2
Tunisia Health Sector Loan
Detailed Project Description
Introduction
The development of the National Health Strategy was initiated during the 8th 5-year Plan, with Bank support
through the Population & Family Health project and the Hospital restructuring projects, which aimed at (i)
ensuring universal coverage and (ii) initiating management reforms to diversify the system's financing
mechanisms and improve the quality and efficiency of public services.
Program's development objectives
The resulting strategy developed by the Government for the next 10 years is based on the principles of
universal coverage of care, equity, quality, and openness of the system to new developments in the field, a
system that would operate on the basis of complementarity of providers and financiers and cost-effectiveness of
services. It has four strategic objectives, which are being pursued during this 9th 5-year Plan (1997-2001): (i)
improving the macroefficiency of public investments; (ii) improving the microefficiency of operations through
management reforms; (iii) enhancing the financial sustainability of publicly supported operations through
introduction of policy measures with regard to cost controls; and, (iv) enhancing the quality of services through
improved case management and staff training.
Program Description
The operational objectives and key actions needed to achieve them are described in detail in the 9th Plan
document, and have been summarized in an operational matrix (see below) which also includes a timetable and
defines responsibility for implementation. They focus mainly on: strengthening the referral system, improving
the utilization of resources and the efficiency of the delivery system, ensuring the integration of the private
sector in the overall system, and strengthening the Government's capacity for planning, regulating, and
monitoring. The Plan also includes measures towards a greater decentralization towards regional authorities.
Bank Support
The Government has requested that the Bank focus its intervention on (i) facilitating the development of sector
reforms; (ii) supporting the strengthening of regional hospitals, medical emergency services; and (iii)
contributing to the institutional strengthening in health policy and planning. To that end, a flexible lending
instrument (sector investment and maintenance loan: SIML) is being proposed, which provides the flexibility
needed to take into account the rapid evolution of the sector and the MOH capacity and experience in Bank
projects. Investments eligible for financing would be selected annually from' the annual investment budget as
approved by the Government on the basis of progress in implementation of the key actions above and according
to pre-set criteria (elaborated below). The activities to be financed by the loan fall under the following:
Component                        Category         Indicative Costs    % of Total
(US$M)
A. Facilitation of sector reformns and key actions  Policy              5.0              5
B. Priority Sector Investrnents              Physical, Institution-    91.0             90
building
C. Institutional strengthening in national health  Institution-building  5.0             5
policy and planning
Total       101.0            100



Annex 2
Page 2 of 11
A. Project Component 1
Facilitation of sector reforms and key actions
Strategic Context
Progress has been made and continues to be made in implementing sector reforms. Significant achievements
have been attained during the implementation of the Eighth Plan and efforts to reform the sector will continue
in the context of the Ninth Plan and will be supported by this project. To better understand this component, it is
necessary to review briefly some of the major reforms in the last 5 years and subsequently, the key actions
anticipated in the project.
The distinguishing features of the 8th. Plan were:
Re Provision of health services: There were efforts to improve provision of care at the primary and tertiary
health care levels. Today 90 percent of the population reside within a one-hour walking distance of a health
facility and has access to primary health care services. At the tertiary care level, major organizational and
management reforms were introduced in teaching hospitals (see hospital restructuring project, Ln 3308). The
July 1991 law has changed the legal status of teaching hospitals into autonomous entities both administratively
and financially - "etablissements publics de sante" (EPS). Although autonomy is not total for some aspects
such as human resources, experience to date demonstrates a marked improvement in the EPSs' performance:
activities have increased by 15-20%, particularly in the outpatient department with no significant increase in
personnel, and the average length of stay has dropped from 8.5 to 7.5 days. A number of management tools
were introduced such as management procedures manual, accounting and financial management system, and a
computerized management information system. A new billing system for inpatient and more recently outpatient
services, has been introduced using a simplified version of a Diagnostic Related Grouping system. This newly
piloted payment mechanism and billing system have enabled the hospitals to increase their revenues.
At the same time, the private sector has expanded rapidly: its bed capacity has doubled in the last five years
and the outpatient visits are almost equal in number to those in the public sector. There is an increasing trend
towards contracting out of non-clinical services in the EPSs to the private sector. Similarly, in underserved
areas, there are some interesting partnerships between the private providers and the public hospitals which
merit to be replicated.
Re Financing mechanisms. The free and subsidized medical care schemes (Assistance Medicale Gratuite I
(AMG 1) and Assistance Medicale Gratuite II (AMG2)) were recently revised to improve targeting of the poor
and were the subject of an agreement between the MOH and the MOSA. A reform of the health insurance
funds under the Social Security System was decided by the Govermment, based on the following principles:
basic coverage combined with optional supplementary coverage; and equal access to all providers. The tariffs
applied in public hospitals were revised to bring them more in line with the real costs of services. Detailed
technical studies are under way to determine projected contribution rates, levels of reimbursement, and ranges
of services for each of the schemes. In addition, the social security funds have entered into agreements with
public hospitals which allow for lump-sum payments for the services provided to both outpatients and
inpatients with social insurance coverage, established on the basis of cost studies. This has also made it possible
to increase the contributions of the social security funds to the hospitals' budgets.
Further key actions and reforms (as defined by GOT in operational matrix attached to this annex)
They aim at: ensuring that regional hospitals carry out their function of initial referral, and that they provide
specialized care for their communities, thus relieving the teaching hospitals of an activity that is inefficient;
redefining the functions of the central level and the regional directorates while strengthening the management
autonomy of public hospitals; extending the billing experience and a simplified version of the management



Annex 2
Page 3 of 11
tools successfully introduced in teaching hospitals, to other facilities; introducing mechanisms for controlling
costs (capitation and global budgets as possible options); and, developing policy toward a greater role for the
private sector in delivery and financing of health care.
Specific key actions to be included consist of: definition of basic specialties in regional hospitals, upgrade those
hospitals to enable them to utilize available resources more effectively; redefinition of the functions and
powers of the central and regional authorities, and of the links between these entities and health care providers
in both the public and private sectors. The management autonomy of public facilities will be strengthened, in
line with the capabilities existing at each level; Reform of the health insurance component of the country's
Social Security Systems will pave the way for fuller integration of the private sector in the health system, by
making care more accessible financially. It will also pave the way for the introduction of incentive mechanisms
through which to regulate the private providers. Cost control and quality assurance will be the focus of a
number of additional activities under the Ninth Plan. Establishment of the national Health Information System
which will allow monitoring and evaluation of the resources, activities, costs, quality, results, and performance
record of both the public and private health sectors, is a national priority. It will serve as a tool for steering the
health system in the right direction.
B. Project Component 2
Priority Sector Investments
Investments to be supported by the project would be selected from line items of the annual investment budget
which would have passed through the Tunisian review process. This review ensures conformity with sectoral
objectives and strategies defined in the Ninth Plan. Selection for financing by the Loan would occur through
annual consultations between the Bank and MOH prior to budget finalization; projects would be selected based
on the criteria set during the course of project preparation. For example, one criterion for approving renovation
or equipment in a regional hospital is whether the hospital is considered apriority in the Ninth Plan. Criteria for
deciding whether a proposed investment can be Bank-financed were discussed and resulted in the preparation
of a "fiche de projet" or Project Justification Document (PJD)1. This tool will be used not only for decision-
making on financing of investments, but also to build capacity in planning, economic analysis, and quality
assurance at the regional and local levels. With respect to the investment program for 1998, the Bank task team
reviewed sub-project documentation and endorsed the program. For following budget years, such
documentation will be submitted before the end of September prior to the budget year under preparation.
The Ninth Plan will concentrate on the second-tier institutions (i.e. the regional hospitals), upgrading them so
that they utilize available resources more effectively to become better at their function of initial referral and to
provide specialized care for their communities, thus relieving the EPSs of an activity that is not part of their
mandate. Special attention will be paid to improving delivery of emergency care, both pre- and in- hospital, in
all categories of hospitals. This will be done primarily through strengthening their human and physical resource
bases and through better organization of their first aid procedures. The Ninth Plan focuses also on the
establishment of the national Health Information System. Therefore, we anticipate that requests for financing
will to a large extent, seek to: (a) improve efficiency of regional hospitals; (b) strengthen the National Medical
Emergency Services (NMES); and (c) develop and implement the national Health Information System (NHIS).
Below is some information on the three sub-sectors.
This document is available in the "Tunisia Health Sector Loan: Implementation Volume".



Annex 2
Page 4 of II
Current SituaiL
Over the years, emphasis has been placed on increasing access to health care services. Designed as a coherent
network, public health facilities are strategically located and classified according to the level of care provided.
At the first level, basic health centers, district hospitals and free-standing maternities are intended to provide
basic ambulatory health care and hospital services. At the second level, there are 29 regional hospitals designed
to provide some specialized care and hospital services. Finally, the third level of care, encompassing teaching,
general hospitals and specialized care institutes, is located in the four largest urban centers, and offers high
level services. The parapublic health network belongs to the CNSS and consists of six polyclinics located in the
major cities. The private health sector is concentrated in urban centers. There are 95 private hospitals which
offer a total of 1,874 beds. However, more than 60% of these beds do not qualify by Tunisian law as hospital
beds, considering the low level of medical technology available.
While there have been successful efforts to improve efficiency in the teaching hospitals, inefficiencies remain
at the lower levels of the pyramid, particularly at the regional hospitals2. The different levels of care do not
adequately complement each other and their potential is not maximized. In particular, the regional hospital
network is underused. Regional hospitals do not offer many of the basic medical specialties. Even when some
services are offered, they are perceived to be of low quality by the population who skips that level of care to
seek treatment in the more costly teaching hospitals. The lack of trained managers and the absence of
management systems typify the current inefficiency in the operation of regional hospitals. Hospital personnel
lack management skills and standardized methods and procedures to follow in monitoring performance in the
provision of services, patient flow, therapeutic procedures, as well as inputs such as inventory and utilization of
resources. Another pervasive problem negatively affecting the performance of regional hospitals is the
mediocre level of buildings and equipment. The lack of simple diagnostic equipment or its poor quality leads
to referring the patient to the teaching hospital and therefore, to the undertaking of more expensive procedures.
Inefficient use of resources or the lack of such resources exacerbate the vicious cycle of general inefficiency.
The medical emergency subsector is particularly important in Tunisia as about half of the patients are admitted
to the hospital through the emergency services. It is a politically sensitive sector as it is the image of the
hospital and requires a great deal of collaboration among various ministries and governmental agencies. The
GOT has taken a particular interest in this sector and mandated the High Council for Health to study it and
make recommendations for improvement. A report covering the four major urban areas (Tunis, Sousse,
3
Monastir and Sfax) as well as emergency services in regional hospitals was issued. It describes not only a
problem of inadequate infrastructure and equipment but also an organizational and staffing problem.
With the exception of Sousse that has a well-equipped Service d'Aide Medicale Urgente SAMU, the pre-
hospital emergency services are generally underdeveloped in Tunisia. The Centre d'Aide Medicale Urgente
(CAMU) in Tunis is the referral center for emergencies and incorporates the following services: a SAMU, an
Intensive Care Service, and a Toxicology Center (including the anti-poison center). Its communication system
is quite rudimentary and presents numerous problems. Its three ambulances are incapable of meeting all the
calls for help. About 25% of the calls are referred to the Protection Civile which operates a number of
medically-equipped ambulances.
Overall, the Tunisian system is very much influenced by the French model. Its two SAMUs cannot meet the
population demand. While the Government strategy calls for action in the sub-sector, no norms or standards
have been established in terms of: coverage, complementarity between the various departnents involved,
The performance of the teaching hospitals (EPS) has significantly improved as documented through the Bank-financed Hospital
Restructuring Project.-
Conseil Superieur de la Sante, Les Urgences MWdicales: Rdalites et Perspectives. December 1996



Annex 2
Page 5 of 11
accessibility (a unique emergency number regardless of the type of emergency such as 911), allowed time for
answering request (in terms of answering calls, arriving at the site, etc.), complementarity of the different levels
of care (referral system for emergencies), standard protocols for care, etc.
With the exception of a few newly-renovated teaching hospitals (EPS), the Intra-Hospital Emergency Services
are generally inadequate in terms of street access, internal layout, availability of examining rooms, equipment,
organization, relationship with other hospital services and personnel. They are generally overcrowded and
receive a large number of "non-urgent" cases. It is estimated that about 60% of the cases are not real
emergencies which is explained by the fact that outpatient clinics and health centers operate only in the
morning. It is interesting to note for example that more than two thirds of the patients come to the hospital
emergency between 1:00 and 11:00 p.m.
These services are generally designed according to the "specialty" or "interests" of the physician in charge. For
example, an emergency facility that is headed by a surgeon is more likely to have equipment and staff that
allow the surgeon to carry on activities that are particularly interesting to him. Another specialty that influences
emergency services in Tunisian hospitals is anesthesiology/intensive care. Very little consideration is given to
the needs of the population and to the requirements, in equipment and personnel, of an emergency as a specialty
per se. This vertical, specialty-based structure does not favor a comprehensive, patient-centered care and
therefore, poses serious quality issues. In addition, the absence of health information on the clinical needs of
the patients that come to emergency services makes it difficult to put in place an effective and efficient system
based on those needs.
A thorough analysis of the current situation of the National Health Information System (NBMS) done throughout
project preparation and involving officials from all levels of the MOH, reveals problems of data quality that affect
reliability, accuracy, comprehensiveness, and availability. There is also an overabundance of often redundant data
that is collected from facilities or providers who look at this requirement as another "bureaucratic" and useless
exercise, as well as a severe under-utilization of these data.
This leads to a vicious circle whereby as the quality of information deteriorates, more skepticism and disinterest of
end users is generated, thus exacerbating the problems of validity and usefulness of information in decision-
making. When available, data pertain mainly to operating processes, such as the management of human, material
and financial resources. Information on health care services and their effects on the population served is
practically nonexistent. For example, while the information system introduced in the EPSs satisfies the need for
operational management and should be extended to regional hospitals, it does not provide information on the type
and quality of care received in those hospitals. Another example is the unavailability of valid information
pertaining to causes of mortality despite efforts to develop and encourage the proper use of death certificates.
In summary, the following two issues seem to summarize the state of the information system in Tunisia: (i) a
fragmentation and lack of coordination among different information systems; and (ii) lack of indicators and
reliable information describing the health care system's performance. The development of a NHIS is necessary
because it is currently impossible to perform the proper epidemiological and public health analysis on a national
level. It is also impossible to have significant decentralization of management authority without appropriate
information infrastructure. In addition, hospital managers need to have the necessary tools and data to make better
decisions regarding costs, efficiency, quality, utilization, and physician effectiveness.
Support to the Public Investment Program (PIP)
The project will support the PIP for improving the quality of care while using resources efficiently and will
consist mainly of renovation and rehabilitation of existing facilities for regional hospitals in areas identified in
the Ninth Plan as highestpriority. Hospital managers and employees will be provided with the tools to manage
and the incentives to be efficient. Focus will be on: strengthening the internal organization of health care,



Annex 2
Page 6 of 11
developing and using management tools (e.g. financial and accounting), quality assurance, and on adopting
performance-based incentives systems (such as bonuses, training opportunities, additional equipment). Training
of managers (top and middle levels) will be at the core of these activities. There will also be public-private
partnerships to enhance utilization of facilities, such as contracting-out-of-services to the private sector and
utilization of public facilities by private providers. Detailed description of key actions, activities, timetables,
performance indicators, risks, and implementing unit is available in the implementation volume. The project
would finance rehabilitations/renovations, equipment, the development of management tools (e.g. financial and
accounting systems, quality assurance programs), and training necessary to implement these systems.
The project will also support the PIP for strengthening the National Medical Emergency Medical Services
(NMES). Quick and efficient responses to emergencies would contribute to a reduction in inpatient days and
average length of stay and would contribute as a result, to overall efficiency of the health care system. For both
facets to this component - intra-hospital and pre-hospital services, the goal is to enable the authorities to
respond efficiently to real emergencies and to provide quality emergency services.
Before major investments in this sub-sector can be made, there is clearly a need for a thorough assessment of
the existing situation in terms of physical infrastructure, and equipment, personnel and organizational
arrangements and recurrent costs implications. Therefore, a study of the emergency sub-sector will be carried
out in the first year of the project and the results will serve to elaborate the NMES strategy and to identify
fuiture investments in the sub-sector. The Tunisian preparation team has prepared with the help of a consultant,
draft terms of reference which will be finalized during appraisal. Preliminary analysis indicates that there will
be investments in training of staff and education of the general public, organization of work and in ensuring
close interministerial coordination. The project would also finance investments in renovations and equipment
which will be approved following the finalization of the NMES strategy.
The project will support the PIP for developing and implementing the national Health Information System
(NHIS). It will address two sets of needs: (i) it will help develop the national Health Information System which
will provide government with timely and relevant epidemiological data which in turn, will help improve public
health; (ii) it will improve at the health facility level, particularly for regional hospitals, service quality and
efficiency, by developing the national Health Information System. The approach will be incremental starting
with a rigorous exercise involving the identification of priority information needs and pertinent indicators at
every level of the health system.
In order to improve the performance of the health care system, and before attempting to define the information
needs, it is necessary to reach a common understanding and agreement on the respective roles at every level of the
system (national, regional and local). Specifically, the NH[S will:
*  Produce indicators according to an agreed schedule. These will make it possible to evaluate and monitor the
health care system's performance at the national, regional and local levels; the latter may involve both
establishments and individual providers.  Such indicators will provide decision-makers with relevant
information on health problems and needs, resource availability and use, the validity of processes to address
individual and collective health problems, and on results in terms of activity, services, and health impact, and;
* Develop indicators to evaluate the health care system at the microeconomic and macroeconomic level, and
particularly to produce information on costs and results of health care services.
A developed NIBS (and successfully utilized by decision-makers) would incorporate as part of the routine
management process, a series of relevant indicators at all three levels of the health care system. This will entail the
availability of:



Annex 2
Page 7 of II
* an adequate list of indicators together with adequate capacity for analysis;
* staff well-qualified for operating the NHIS;
* adequate material and equipment; and
* decision-makers willing and able to use the system properly.
The project will contribute to this end in stages. A detailed description of activities, timetable, and resources
needed as well as the risks and key actions are available in the Implementation volume. The loan will finance
technical assistance, training, workshops as well as equipment (mostly computers).
Project Component 3
Institutional Strengthening in Health Policy and Planning
To carry on the above, the MOH and particularly the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP) should be
strengthened under the project in order to improve its capacity for planning, policy analysis, and financial
management. This will involve appropriate training in policy analysis and formulation, study tours for selected
senior staff to examine approaches in other countries, and consensus-building seminars. The project would also
assist in establishing national health accounts (preliminary work has been launched) and in improving the
reporting and financial management system of the MOH.
Operational Matrix
(as defined by the Tunisian Government in collaboration with the Bank's team)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS
1.     CIMSP         Data-Processing Center, MOH                  Mr. Abdelmajid MILED
2.     CRFP           Research & Training Center                  Prof Mohamed HLAYEM
3.     DAA            Administrative Affairs Directorate          Mr. Moncef GARGOURI
4.     DEP            Studies & Planning Directorate              Dr. Kheireddine KHALED
5.     DF             Finance Directorate                         Mr. Naceur MASROUKI
6.     DGS            Directorate General of Health               Prof. Habib ACHOUR
7.     DIM            Office of the Medical Inspector             Dr. Youssef MESSAI
8.     DIOM           0 & M Data-Processing Directorate           Mr. Mongi SDIRI
9.     DTH            Directorate of Hospital Care                Dr. Kheireddine KHALED
10.    EPS           Public Health Establishments
11.   INSP           National Institute of Public Health          Prof. Noureddine ACHOUR
12.    MOH           Ministry of Health
13.    RCPS          Health Professions Regulation & Monitoring
Center                              Dr. Noureddine CHERNI
14.    RH            Regional hospital
15.    SG            General Secretariat                          Mr. Ahmed OURIR
16.    UCFC          Central Management Training Unit            Mr. Belgacem BEN ARAB
17.    UCT           Technical Cooperation Unit                   Dr. Hichem ABDESSELEM
18.    UH            University hospital
19.    UJC           Legal Affairs Unit                           Mr. Abdennaceur BEN SALEM
20.    URGH           Hospital Management Reform Unit             Dr. Hedi ACHOURI



TUNISIA          HEALTH SECTOR PR70JECT: Operational Matrix
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES                      GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA-                                    KEY ACTIONS                        DEADLINE           AGENCY
(as defined by GOT in the Ninth Plan)             DEFINED OBJECTIVES                                                                                       RESPONSIBLE
1.  UPGRADE HEALTH CARE
DELIVERY SYSTEM
1.1  INTRODUCEINTEGRATED                1.1.1   Demarcate major health regions.          I.l.A   Amend Decree 92-884 of May 11, 1992   Sept. 1998          DEP & D7H
REGIONALIZED HEALTH               1.1.2   Redefine basic specialties in terms of needs     (Government Bulletin [JORT] No. 32) to
SERVICES NETWORK TO                      of population and of national health sector       include definition of basic specialties.
ENSURE CONTINUITY OF                     development strategy.                      I.l.B   Prepare   Regionalized   Health   Map.  Dec. 1998         DEP
CARE                              1.1.3  Identify and plan promotion of intra- and         (Describe existing public/private map.)
inter-regional centers of excellence:      . l.C   Regionalize staffing requirements:
1.1.4   Organize intra- and inter-regional health          *  existing personnel;                 Dec. 1998        DAA
care network.                                       *  future personnel.                   Dec. 1998        DEP/DAA
1.1.5   Organize arrangements for sponsorship of  1..D   Promote  support  of  RHs  by  UHs  Sept. 1998           DTH
rcgional hospitals by university hospitals.      (sponsorship agreements).
1.1 .E   Prepare  yearly  timetables for gradual
putting  into  effect  of  sponsorship   Begin Sept.      DTH
agreements.                              1998
1.2  REINFORCE & PROMOTE                1.2.1   Review  content of basic  health  care  1.2.A   Prepare   Regionalized   Health   Map.  Dec. 1998          DEP
BASIC & GENERAL HEALTH                   package: redefine set of front-line health        (Describe existing public/private map.).
CARE DEVELOPMENT                          care services to be provided.             1.2.B   Prepare study & implementation plan for  Dec. 1999       INSP
STRATEGY                          1.2.2   Develop  procedures  for promoting  &            progressive  reorganization  of  district
converting  district hospitals &  satellite      hospitals & outlying maternity clinics.
maternity clinics to meet the needs of each
region.
1.3  REINFORCE GAINS & ENSURE   1.3.1   Continue  strengthening  management of  1.3.A   Upgrade hospital information system with   Dec. 1998               URGHI& CIMSP
SUSTAINABILITY OF                        EPSs (public health establishments), with         data on major diagnostic categories.
HOSPI I AL REFORM                        focus on greater autonomy in: (i) resource   1.3.B   Set up  performance contracts (human  Begin Dec.        URGH & DTH
allocation; (ii) personnel management; &         resources +  investment and  recurrent  1998
(iii) information systems.                       allocations) to progressively generalize on
1.3.2   Review organization & administration of         the EPS.
nursing & medical services in EPSs.       L.3.C   Make job profile of head nurse position   Dec. 1998       CRFP & INSP
official (issue as MOH Order).
1.3.D   Draw up schedule to train head nurses  Dec. 1998          URGH & UCFC
gradually in new admin. methods.
L.3.E   Create nursing service director positions  Dec. 1999      URGH & DTH
gradually.                                                                 r. _ _D
(D  CD
x
00
0



TUNISIA    THEALTH SECTOR PROJECT: Operations Matrix
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES                        OPERATIONS OBJECTIVES                                   KEY ACTIONS                     DEADLINE          AGENCY
RESPONSIBLE
1.4  UPGRADE REGIONAL                 1.4.1    Ensure availability of personnel resources.  1.4.A   Determine   a   timetable  for  the  Dec. 1999     DTII
IIOSPIIAI.S                      1.4.2    Rehabilitate & adapt infrastructure.             implementation of the RH performance
1.4.3    Ensure  availability  of equipment (light,       contracts  (contracts-objectifs)  (human
medium, heavy).                                  resources +  investment and recurrent
allocations).                          June 1999      DAA
1.4.B   Ensure  annual  update  of  staffing
requirements  (loi  des  cadres)  as  Sept. 1999      DTHI& DF
applicable to RHs.
1.4.C  Prepare year-based matrix for deployment
of RH human & financial operating
resources.
1.5  IMPROVEI IIOSI'IIAI.             1.5.1    Determine roles & prerogatives of various  1.5.A  Submit terms of reference for financial  Jan. 1998    DGS& INSP
E.MERGENCY ROOM                          parties involved in providing  prehospital         study of emergency services.
SERVICES                                 services.                                  1.5.B   Appoint ad hoc group to  launch &   Jan. 1998         DGS
1.5.2   Set up mechanisms to allow coordination &         monitor progress of financial study of
* Reinf'orcement of means                regulation of activities of all parties involved.  emergency services.
* First aid/rescue               1.5.3    Design & carry out actions to inform  &   1.5.C   Complete financial study of emergency  March. 1999    DGS
sensitize general public regarding types of       services.
hazard leading to emergency situations.   1.5.D  Set up Emergency Services Management  March. 1999    DGS
1.5.4    Review organization & integration of hospital    Unit  and  integrate  into  existing
emergency room services.                          organization.
I .5.E  Formulate emergency services strategy &   June 1999   Emergency Unit
draw up timetable for its implementation.
1.5.F   Conduct pilot project to compare two  Sept. 1999      Emergency Unit
different emergency systems.
1.6  INTEGRATIE PRIVAlE SECIOR   1.6.1 I)esign institutional arrangements & identify  1.6.A  Prepare  Regionalized   Health   Map.  Dec. 1998          DEP
CARE I'ROVII)DRS MORE                     iicentives needed to obtain greater private      (Describe existing public/private map.)
Cl.OSElI.Y INTO I IFIAL. II I             sector participation.                     1.6.B   Negotiate agreements for subcontracting  Dec. 1998    DTH & RCPS
SYSIEM                                                                                      of certain clinical activities to private
sector care providers.                                                  m D
1.6.C  Prepare  report on  arrangements  for  Dec. 1999      RCPS & DTH        n)
utilization of public sector facilities by                                 x
private sector.                                                         '0 \
0



TUNISIA    THEALTH SECTOR PROJECT: Operations Matrix
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES                        OPERATIONS OBJECTIVES                                     KEY ACTIONS                        DEADLINE    AGENCY
RESPONSIBLE
1.7  AD)AlI' MANAGI'MENI              1.7.1    Confine central government role in health  1.7.A   Develop  standardized  RI] management  Dec. 1998         DTH & CIMSP
ORGANS Ol2 I IEAI.TII I                   system  to following functions:  concept           procedures  that  can   gradually   be
SYSTElM                                   lormulation,    planning,     evaluation,         computerized.
inspection, and regulation.                1.7.B   Provide  program  to train  management,  June 1999       DRH& UCFC
I Redeline roles & tasks of      1.7.2    Contine regional government role in health        medical, &  paramedical personnel in the
central & regional authorities.          system  to:   planning, organization, &             new procedures.
* Strengthen & adlust degree of           coordination.                              I.7.C   Review organization charts of central and  Dec. 1998     SG & DGS
autoniomy of public health       1.7.3   D)evelop  more  decentralized  &   more            regional health authorities, and of RHs.
agencies at each level                    participative management methods in public  1.7.D   Review internal regulations of public sector  June 1999  DGS & SG
* Involve proliessional                  sector health agencies.                             health facilities.
associations in formulation ol   1.7.4    lormulate  health  system   management
healthi system manlagemiient             standards &  practices consistent with cost
standards & practices.                    control & guarantees of quality care.
2.   M1OVE HEALTH CARE                2.1      Fxtend hilling for health care services to the  2.1.A   Decide time schedule for introduction of  June 1998  D?H
FINANCING GRADUALLY                       Rtils & other institutional sources of health     billing for services provided through RHs
TO A REAL- COST & USER-                   care finiancing gradually.                         (gradual extension in light of results of pilot
CONTRIBUTION BASIS               2.2     [)efine  the  relationships  between  social       experiments).
security funds and private sector health care  2.1.1B   Negotiate agreement with social security  Nov. 1998  DTH
providers (I lealth Insurance Reform).            funds for billing  of scrvices provided
2.3     Review  the availability &  organizational         through RHs.
methods of free medical assistance (AMG).   2.1 .C   Draw  up &  promulgate regulations to  June 1998       DTII & UJC
govern free medical assistance (AMG).
3.   ENSURE                            3.1     Formulate the requirements for all health  3.1.A   Review  &  officially  approve  e>isting  Oct. 1998       CRFP& INSP
APPROPRIATENESS OF                        system professional positions.                    document on job  position  requirements
HEALTH PERSONNEL JOB             3.2      Review  timetable/ vork-shift  requirements       prepared by CRFP.
QUALIFICATIONS                            for iealti system personniel.              3.1.13   Draw  up &  promulgate regulations to   Dec. 1998       DIOM& UCFC
3.3     Institutionalize  continuing  education  for       govern ongoing training of administrative &
* Basic academic training                 health system professionals.                      paramedical personnel.
* Continuing Education                                                               3.1 .C   Prepare  report  on   health   system   Dec. 1999       INSP
timetable/work- shift arrangements, with
view to more efficient deployment of staff.
n D
(D  (0
x
0



TUNISIA          HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT: Operations Matrix
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES                      OPERATIONS OBJECTIVES                                  KEY ACTIONS                       DEADLINE         AGENCY
RESPONSIBLE
4.   IDENTIFY PRIORITIES                      Define the content of research trends  4.A    Identify  the  institution  in  change  of  June 1998    INSP + UCT
CLARIFY THE FINANCING                   according to the following allotment:           research coordination.
CHANNEL AND THE                  4.1    clinical research.                       4.B    Identify the method of organization       Sept 1998     INSP + UCT
EVALUATION METHODS               4.2    fondamental research.
FOR RESEARCH IN THE              4.3    evaluative research.
HEALTH SECTOR
5   CONTROL HEALTH CARE               5.1      Plan &  set up  health care delivery  5.A   Prepare   Regionalized   Health   Map.  Dec. 1998         DEP
COSTS                                     networks.                                      (Describe existing public/private map.)
5.2     Introduce mechanisms. to ensure reactive  5.B   Prepare year-based matrix for deployment of  Sept. 1999    DTH
* Restore role of general                 & flexible use & efficient deployment of       public health facility human &  financial
medical practitioner in health            resources.                                     operating resources.
care system.                      5.3     Ensure integration & continuity of care  5.C   Ensure  annual   update   of   staffing  June 1999      DAA & DTH
* Introduce incentives for                delivery.                                      requirements as applicable to health care
production & dispensing of        5.4     Design resource allocation mechanisms &        facilities.
generic drugs, & for bulk                 formulate applicable criteria.
dispensing whenever possible.
* Introduce cost control
mechanisms.
6.  ENSURE QUALITY OF                 6.1      Diagnose needs.                        6.A   Appoint task force (Quality Unit) to examine  June 1998  SG & DGS &
HEALTH CARE                       6.2     Define quality reference criteria:   (i)       quality of health care in Tunisia.                      DIM
technical;  (ii)   attention   to   &   6.B   Issue official report (Livre Blanc), "Quality  June 1999  Quality Unit
* Equip health system with                reception/routing   of   patients;  (iii)      Health Care in Tunisia."
means of providing quality care           expectations of professionals & users; and  6.C   Formulate strategy to ensure quality.  June 1999     Quality Unit
(iv) organizational issues.            6.D   Produce  year-based  plan  of action  to  June 1999      Quality Unit
6.3     Develop strategy to ensure quality care.      implement quality strategy.
6.4     Develop plan of action to implement
quality strategy.                     l
7.  CREATE NATIONAL HEALTH    7.1.1   Identify & produce indicators of use to  7.A   Set up SNIS Management Unit.                      Oct. 1997     DEP & INSP
INFORMATION SYSTEM                        central, regional, & local authorities.  7.B   Conduct inventory of existing information  June 1998    SNIS Unit
(SNIS)                            7.1.2    Develop information systems to generate       (data + indicators).
material for databases.                7.C   Compile  most pertinent information  &   Dec. 1998       SNIS Unit
* Monitor & evaluate health       7.1.3   Integrate  public  sector  information         decide how to use it to generate indicators.
system resources, activities, costs,       subsystems.                            7.D   Produce  plan  of action  to  implement  Dec. 1998       SNISUnit
quality, results, & performance,                                                         proposed actions:  (i) cancer register; (ii)
* Base decision processes on                                                             death certificate; & (iii) information.
relevant & reliable indicators that                                               7.E    Review  terms  of  reference  of SNIS  Dec. 1999        SNIS Unit          e
reflect (i) health system results &                                                      Management  Unit  with  view  to  its                                      rD m
performance, & (ii) significant                                                          incorporation    into    health   system                                      x
factors (e.g. resources, activities).                                 _                  organization chart.                                                          i N
0



\I



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Tunisia Health Sector Loan
Estimated Costs
1.    The following table presents the total costs of the activities that are likely to be supported by the Bank
loan, as presented in Annex 2. The columns represent the annual projected disbursements. Since specific
activities to be financed by the loan will be defined annually, in accordance with the choice of the SILM as
lending instrument, the following figures are only estimates, which have been based on the following
assumptions:
(i) 1998 estimates are based on the annual budget, as approved by the Govemment, to which has been
added the costs of civil works studies, studies and training which had not been initially planned;
(ii) the total amount per year is based on past trends, the financial capacity of the Government, and the
overall investment priorities of the MOH;
(iii) the distribution of funds between each expenditure category is based on preliminary estimates of
renovation/construction costs and equipment needs as well as on the implementation capacity of the
relevant departments;
(iv) the foreign exchange for these activities has been estimated on the basis of experience in the
Hospital Restructuring Project (40% for civil works, 80% for equipment and 60% for services and
training) which included similar renovations and medical and computer equipment; the resulting
foreign exchange content is 62%.
(v) Total estimated disbursements for 2002 follow past trends and do not anticipate on the contents of
the 10th Plan, while Bank disbursements would be limited to those activities completed before
December 200 1.
TOTAL COSTS OF LIKELY ACTIVITIES TO BE FINANCED BY THE BANK
BASE COSTS (US$ MILLION)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY            1998    1999    2000    2001    2002  TOTAL
Civil works                        3       6       10      11       10      40
Equipment                          6       8       13      13      12       52
Studies & Training                 1       1        1       1        1       5
Unallocated                                1        1       1        1       4
TOTAL                             10      16       25      26      24      101
of which IBRD                   6.8    10.2    11.2    12.2      9.5      50
of which Govt                   3.2     5.8    13.8    13.8    14.4       51
of which foreign exchange      6.6      10    15.6       16    14.8       63
% FE/Total          66%      63%     62%      62%     62%     62%
%IBRD/Total         70%      69%     52%      50%     25%     50%






Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
Annex 4
Tunisia Health Sector Project
Development Strategy Letter
Dear Sir:
Given the essential nature of its contribution to achievement of the national objectives embodied
in different economic and social development plans, the health sector is both a strategic and a priority
sector. It one of the fundamental agencies in the promotion of human resources and national solidarity.
With a view to consolidating the gains of the Eighth Plan and giving concrete expression to the
Government's key strategic aims for the period of the Ninth Plan, the Ministry of Public Health has
already joined forces with the World Bank in making preparations for a health sector development
project which is concerned mainly with:
-    upgrading regional hospital facilities;
-    improving the organization and coverage of emergency health services;
-    establishment of a national health information system.
The distinguishing features of the Eighth Plan were:
Re Organization of Services: Effort was directed toward improving the delivery of health care,
particularly basic health services, through the Family Health and Population Project, the National
Solidarity Fund, etc. The underlying purpose was to reduce disparities among regions and at the
university-hospital level by introducing new management techniques calculated to expand access to
quality care, and, as part of the Hospital Management Reform Project, by converting university hospitals
into government-owned health corporations or EPSs (etablissements publics de sante'). At the same time,
the private sector developed significantly as regards both in-patient and out-patient care.
Re Financial Mechanisms: Both free and subsidized medical care schemes were overhauled so
they could be targeted better on the basis of coordination of the activities of the Ministry of Social
Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health.
The official rate schedules applied by public sector health agencies were revised to bring them
more into line with the actual cost of the services being provided.
In addition, the social security funds entered into agreements with the university hospitals which
allow for the billing of lump-sum payments in respect of services rendered to both out-patients and in-
patients with health insurance coverage, payments that are computed on the basis of cost studies
produced by the EPSs. This has made it possible to increase social security fund contributions to the
EPSs. This experiment in billing between funds and EPSs is indicative of the new relationships that will
gradually be established between care providers (whether public or private sector entities) and financing
agencies (the social security funds).
The Government decided on a project to reform the health insurance component of the country's
social security systems, with application of the following principles: all systems to provide the same



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
standardized coverage; a combination of basic coverage and optional supplementary coverage; and equal
access to all care providers (public sector and private sector).
In-depth technical studies covering all Tunisia's social security systems are in progress to
determine their contribution rates, reimbursement levels, and array of proposed services.
The Ninth Plan will be implemented in an environment characterized by such major challenges
as:
A worldwide trend toward privatization of all activities in the economic sectors,
including the services sector. This trend has now begun to affect all sectors in Tunisia,
including health, where the financing system is undergoing fundamental changes as the
proportion of overall health expenditure funded from the government budget is being
steadily reduced.
-     Demographic and epidemiological changes, as a result of which the health system will
be increasingly concerned with elderly people, who are affected with chronic
degenerative conditions that are more expensive to treat.
-     Improvements in socioeconomic conditions, literacy, and communications, which will
intensify pressure on the health system by changing patterns of demand.
-     A more diversified supply of care. Although supply continues to be dominated by the
public sector, which accounts for half of all expenditure on health, the private sector is
rapidly gaining ground in urban areas.
-     A temporary narrowing of the employment market for health professionals owing to (i)
stabilization of recruitment in the public sector and (ii) problems, mainly associated with
financing arrangements, that make entry into the private sector difficult.
-     Constant developments in medical technology, which make the practice of medicine
increasingly technical and therefore increasingly expensive.
In order to meet these challenges, and in recognition of the fact that health and medicine now
exert an increasing impact on economic development, the Ninth Economic and Social Development Plan
includes a health sector development strategy for the period 1997-2001 that is based on the following
principles:
(1)    Universal coverage: The health system must be capable of providing universal coverage
of health care needs for the entire population, regardless of income or social category.
(2)    Equity of access not only to care but also to financing commensurate with each
individual's ability to pay, within a framework of national solidarity.
(3)    Quality: The health system must have command of the resources that will enable it to
provide the highest quality of care possible at the level of expenditure incurred.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
(4)    Indivisibility: The health system should form a single, interlocking whole whose various
components are both complementary and competitive in terms of the cost-effectiveness
of the services provided.
Actions to Be Taken:
1.    If the health care system is to be upgraded in accordance with the principles of complementarity
among the various levels of public sector care and between the public and private sectors as care
providers, it will be necessary to re-think the overall organization of the system, adapt its management
entities, rehabilitate the multi-level public system of care delivery, and achieve better integration of the
private sector into the system as a whole.
1.1    A decision on the best type of overall organization for the health care system will need to
be preceded by demarcation of health regions in such a way that all categories of
services at the various levels of expertise are included, so that patients can be provided
with an unbroken succession of services.
1.2    Rehabilitation of the public health care system should include steps to strengthen basic
health care delivery, reinforce the successes of the Population and Family Health Project,
and expand and ensure the sustainability of the gains achieved through the Hospital
Management Reform Project.
The Ninth Plan will concentrate on the second-tier institutions (i.e. the regional
hospitals), upgrading them so that they utilize available resources more effectively to
become better at their function of initial referral and to provide specialized care for their
communities, thus relieving the university hospitals of an activity that is not part of their
mandate.
Special attention will be paid to improving delivery of emergency care in all categories
of hospitals, by strengthening their human and physical resource bases and better
organization of their first aid procedures.
1.3    Reform of the health insurance component of the country's social security systems will
pave the way for fuller integration of the private sector into the health system, by making
care more accessible, particularly from a financial standpoint, and also for the
introduction of incentive mechanisms through which to regulate the entry and
geographical distribution of private providers, thus contributing to a better balance of
health care coverage throughout the country.
1.4    A necessary part of adaptation/adjustment of the health system's management entities
will be redefinition of the functions and powers of the central and regional authorities,
and of the links between these entities and health care providers in both the public and
private sectors. The management autonomy of public sector health agencies will be
strengthened, in line with the capabilities existing at each level.  Private sector
associations of health professionals should be given an increasing part to play in the
formulation standards of practice and supervision.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
2.     The mobilization of resources, and their equitable allocation through health insurance reform and
the gradual extension of billing to the regional hospitals, will make it possible to bring the financing of
health care more and more into line with the real cost of providing services and the actual distribution of
health system users.
3.    Keeping training institutions abreast of the changing needs of the health care professions will
mean regulating the various areas of training in order to ensure the validity of qualifications awarded. In
addition to basic training, the content of which is to be revised, ongoing training should be provided for
all professionals, in the interests of career development and maintenance of quality. As regards research,
it is proposed to maximize existing potential by identifying priorities and clarifying systems of financing
and methods of evaluating results.
4.     Cost control and quality assurance will be the focus of a number of additional activities under the
Ninth Plan: rationalization of care delivery through reinstatement of the general practitioner as part of
the system; introduction of incentives for the production and dispensing of generic medications (as far as
possible in bulk forn); and establishment of cost monitoring and control mechanisms.
5.    Establishment of a national health information system, which will allow monitoring and
evaluation of the resources, activities, costs, quality, results, and performance record of both the public
and private segments of the health system, is a national priority. It will serve as tool for steering the
health system in the right direction and for planning its development with greater effectiveness.
While noting that relations between Tunisia and the World Bank are excellent, and that the
Bank's contribution to the success of the two projects for which it provided partial financing during the
course of the Eighth Plan was an important one, I would also like to say how gratified I am that the Bank
is prepared to participate in financing the health sector projects to be incorporated in the Ninth
Development Plan (1997-2001).
Yours truly,
Dr. Hedi MHENNI
Minister of Public Health



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
Annex 5
Tunisia Health Sector Project
Financial Summary
1.    The proposed loan of FRF 297,600,000 (equivalent toUS$50 million) would finance about 15 percent
of the investment program approved for the Ninth Plan. The financing plan for the whole investment program is
shown below and the financing of activities to be supported by the Bank loan is presented in the summary cover
page of this PAD:
Investment Plan Financing (base costs)
(TD million)
SOCIAL
GOVERNMENT'  SEC.FUNDS    IBRD2    OTHER  TOTAL
9TH PLAN
1997        51,9              1,5         8,6       3.0      65.0
1998        46,5             10,5         15,5       2,0      74,5
1999        37,0             12,0         11,0       5,0      65,0
2000        27,0             12,0         17,0      10,0      66,0
2001        25,0             14,0         17,0      10,0      66,0
TOTAL Ninth Plan          187,4            50,0         69,1      30,0    336,5
Source: MSP Estimates
In addition, Government participation would increase by TD 30 million, should other external financing not materialize.
IBRD amounts include the balance of the Population and Family health project and the Hospital Restructuring project for
1997, 1998 and 1999, as well as the proposed health sector loan.



I



Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
Annex 6
Tunisia Health Sector Loan
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
A.    Procurement Methods
1.    Categories of expenditures and procurement methods anticipated have been estimated based on the
activities likely to be partially financed by the Bank and are summarized in Table A. A procurement Plan has
been prepared for the first year of the project and is available in the implementation volume. This annual plan
will be updated semi-annually as part of the progress report to be presented by the DEP.
2.    All Bank-financed civil works, equipment and materials would be procured in accordance with the
Bank Procurement Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and as
revised in January and August 1996). Procurement of consultant services and technical assistance would
follow the World Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997 and revised in September 1997).
3.    Civil works will be according to national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures, which are generally
acceptable to the Bank, for contracts below US$4 million, threshold above which ICB would be required.
Works contracts would be mostly rehabilitation of small value (from US$100,000 to US$1,500,000), and would
be distributed over dispersed regions. Packaging would therefore not be feasible and there is a sufficient
number of efficient local contractors to carry out these contracts.
4.    Goods and equipment required for the project will consist of hospital and laboratory equipment,
computers, telecommunication and office equipment, vehicles and other small equipment. Contracts for
equipment and materials estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent or more each will be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB), using the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents. Goods estimated
to cost US$350,000 or less shall be procured through NCB procedures. Contracts valued at US$100,000 or less
may be procured through International shopping. Contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or less may be
procured through National Shopping.
5.    Consultant services and detailed engineering and construction supervision services will be contracted
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997 and revised in September 1997). They will be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of a quality and cost-based selection. Technical assistance services below US$100,000 for the
development and implementation of sector reforms under Part A and for the strenghtening of the planning
capacity under Part C of the project may be procured on the basis of the Consultants qualifications. Services
likely to be financed under the loan include studies, technical assistance, training, engineering designs, and
construction supervision services for which proposals will be requested from three to six short-listed
firms/individuals. Individual consultants may be recruited for assistance in the development of hospital reforms
under Part A of the project, and for technical assistance to MOH under Part C.
6.    Training: Training services will follow the same guidelines as described in paragraph 5 above. The
per diems provided to trainees, civil servants in study tours or special missions will be calculated and
reimbursed on the basis of the real costs incurred.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
B.    Bank Prior Review
7.    Investments: Investments eligible for financing under the loan will be selected annually, based on
discussions between the Bank and the MOH and according to agreed upon criteria and progress achieved on
key actions (see annex 2 and project justification document in the implementation volume).
8.    Standard documentation: Bank Standard Bidding Documents for equipment procured under ICB
procedures will be used in the preparation of the bidding document to be used during the project. Any
modification will require prior approval by the Bank and submission to the Procurement Board.
9.    Individual contracts: All contracts for works exceeding US$500,000 and ICB contracts for goods and
equipment would be subject to prior review and approval by the World Bank. For consultancy assignments,
including training services, financed by the World Bank, there would be prior review of contracts worth
US$100,000 and above for contracts with consulting firms and US$50,000 and above for contracts with
individual consultants. Terms of Reference for all services to be provided would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. Finally, all contracts for which sole source contracting is envisaged will require prior approval by the
Bank. This would result in prior review of about 75% percent of Bank-financed procurement. The contract
review arrangements are summarized in Table B.
C. Responsibility for procurement
10.   As in the two on-going Bank-financed projects, responsibility for procurement will be as follows:
(i) For civil works, the selection and contracting of architects and contractors, as well as the supervision
of sites, will be the responsibility of the regional departments of the Ministry of Equipment, with the technical
cooperation of the respective regional directors for health and/or hospital administrators. At the conceptual
stage, technical assistance will be provided by the MOH Directorate for Civil Works (DB) in the preparation of
functional programs. The DB will also monitor progress in implementation and processing of payments by the
regions and be directly responsible for those sites situated in the greater Tunis area. To that end, the capacity
of the DB will be reinforced to enable it to fully play its guidance and monitoring role and staff will be assigned
full time to the follow-up of the regional hospitals projects.
(ii) All equipment procurement, which will consist mainly of medical equipment, computer,
communications and transportation equipment, office and hospital furniture, will be handled at central level, by
MOH's Directorate for Equipment. This unit has the capacity and experience of Bank-financed procurement
and no delays have been encountered in previous projects. Responsibility for reception, inventory, dispatching
and organization of maintenance of equipment are the responsibility of the National Center for Maintenance.
(iii) Services: Tenns-of-reference, short lists and draft contracts will be prepared by the various
concerned departments (DEP, DTH, DGH...).
11.   Coordination and monitoring of the procurement process, and their links with the planning and
disbursement functions, will be the responsibility of the DEP which will be assisted by the project management
software developed. This software will link electronically all departments concerned. To strengthen this
coordination function, all correspondence to and from the Bank will transit through the DEP.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
DISBURSEMENT
A.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
12.   Allocation of loan proceeds by category of expenditures has been estimated based on the trend of the
overall Government 5-year investment program and on a preliminary assessment of investments likely to be
submitted for Bank financing. The resulting allocation is summarized in Table C. Retroactive financing in an
amount equal to FRF29.76 million will cover expenditues encurred after November 1, 1997.
D.    Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
13.   Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring Bank's prior review will be submitted
with the corresponding application. Disbursements for contracts valued at less that US$500,000 for works,
US$350,000 for goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, US$50,000 for individual consultants, and all training
will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). During negotiations, assurances were sought
that documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs, or otherwise, will be maintained and made
available for review by auditors and Bank visiting missions.
E.    Special Account
14.   To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish in the Central
Bank a Special Account (SA) in French Francs under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank
would, upon request, make an Authorized Allocation of FRF18,000,000 (equivalent to US$3.0 million).
Initially, the allocation would be limited to FRF12,000,000 (equivalent to US$1.5 million) until disbursements
reached FRF90,000,000 (equivalent to US$15.0 million) at which time the full Authorized Allocation could be
claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one
third of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be
supported by the necessary documentation, including the bank and reconciliation statement of the special
account against Bank records. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Table A. Total Costs of activities likely to be financed by the Bank loan
by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
.. ...... ......  ..   ....                       ... ....   ..... .ww -- 
1. Works                                                 36.0     6.0             42.0
(18.0)   (3.0)           (21.0)
2. Goods                                       40.0     10.0    4.0               54.0
(20.0)   (5.0)   (2.5)            (27.5)
3. Services                                                       3.0              3.0
(0.7)           (0.7)
4. Training (Tuition and per-diems)                               2.0              2.0
(0.8___S)       (0.8)
TOTAL                                       40.0     46.0    15.0             101.0
(20)    (23.0)   (7.0)           (50.0)
- Amounts rounded.
- Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- The table above has been established based on (i) past experience in the on-going hospital
restructuring project and (ii) on preliminary estimates of the scope of works needed to rehabilitated the
regional hospitals and on the standard equipment lists for this hospital level.
XIntemational Competitive Bidding
National Competitive Bidding
3  dicates procrement by Lntemational Shopping and National Shopping.
4 Not Bank Financed



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
Table B. Prior Review Thresholds (US$)
.E. xp.ed., Cag "    Can.' "    at VW.  .ue   u e:' Pee  ' Met  Co'ntracts Subject to:iorRReview
x                                       uremeni (Threshodd
1. Civil Works       > US$4,000,000              ICB           All contracts.
< US$4,000,000             NCB           All contracts above US$500,000
2. Goods             >  US$350,000               ICB           All contracts
<= US$350,000              NCB           No prior review
< = US$100,000              IS           No prior review
<= US$50,000                NS           No prior review
3. Services
(including training)
*   Firms         > US$100,000        Consultant Guidelines   TORs, Short list, LOI and contracts
<= US$100,00                              TORs only
Individuas .> US$ 50,000              Consultant Guidelines   TORs, Short list, LOI and contracts
- Individuals        < US$ 50,000                              TORs only
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (FRF)
R~mndkww Categ.V             'A meant in FRY       PeFen Jof  pe_ tue
1. Civil Works6                        124,980,000   70%
2 Goods and Equipment7                 142,830,000   100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
3 Services and Training8               8,930,000    100% of expenditures
4 Unallocated9                         20,860,000
TOTAL                               297,600,000
For the purposes of Category 2, the term "80% of expenditures" is intended as 80% of expenditures including taxes.
For the purposes of Category 3, the term "100% of expenditures" refers to expenditures net of taxes.
6   Amount equivalent to USS 21 million.
7
Amount equivalent to USS 24 million.
8 Amount equivalent to USS 1.5 million.
9   Amount ffluivalent to US$ 3.5 million.






Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Annex 7
Tunisia Health Sector Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (to Board approval) (USSO00)  Planned              Ahtal
(as of 9/30/97)
273.4 (BB)          231.8 (BB)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months to                     -
appraisal)
First Bank mission (identification)                                 02/26/97
Appraisal mission departure                     10/13/97            10/13/97
Negotiations                                    01/07/98             1/12/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/30/98
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant TF025179 (JY 58,900,000)
Spanish Trust Fund Grant TF035382 (US$50,000)
French Trust Fund Grant TF035359 (US$16,000)
Canadian Trust Fund Grant TF022213 (US$15,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Eva Jarawan (Task Manager and Senior Health Specialist, MNSHD)
Claire Voltaire (Operations Analyst, MNSHD)
Claudia Pardifias-OcalIa (Counsel, LEGMN)
Thu-Ha Nguyen (Disbursement Officer, LOAEL)
Maureen Lewis (Principal Health Economist and Peer Reviewer, HDD)
Salim Habayeb (Principal Health Specialist and Peer Reviewer, SA2PH)
Nicholas Prescott (Senior Health Economist and Peer Reviewer, EA I HR)
Willy de Geyndt (Consultant Peer Reviewer)






Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Annex 8
Tunisia Health Sector Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Implementation Plan
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Atelier de Planification par Objectifs - ZOPP. March 1997.
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Atelier de Planification par Objectifs - ZOPP. May 1997.
Detailed reports on the proposed project components prepared by members of the Bank Team in collaboration
with the Tunisian preparation team.
B. GOT documents
Centre Informatique, Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Schema directeur strategique du Ministere de la
Sante Pbhiques, December 1996.
Centre Informatique, Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Schema directeur strategique du Ministere de la
Sante Publique (document de synthese), December 1996.
Commission sectorielle de la Sant6, Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Analyse de la situation actuelle &
objectifs du IXeme plan, August 1996.
Conseil superieur de la Sante, Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Les Urgences M6dicales - Realitis et
perspectives, December 1996.
Conseil superieur de la Sante, Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Le secteur prive, February 1996.
Direction des 6tudes, Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Projet de carte sanitaire nationale, March 1991.
Ecole Nationale de la Sant6 Publique, D6chets hospitaliers en Tunisie, Rennes, March 1993.
Groupe d'Etude Sante, Etude relative aux systemes actuels d'assistance mddicale gratuite, August 1995.
Groupe de Travail de la R6forme de l'Assurance Maladie, Ministry of Social Affairs, Republic of Tunisia,
RWforme de I'assurance maladie, July 1996.
Institut National de Sante Publique, Republic of Tunisia, Methodologie et premiers r6sultats de 1'enquete
nationale sur le secteur liberal de la sante, June 1997.
Institut National de Sante Publique, Republic of Tunisia, Projets de creation de systemes d'informnation en
Tunisie - Elements de r6flexion et protocoles d'action, February 1997.
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Les contrats d'objectifs et de moyens avec les etablissements de sanit6
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Protocoles d'accord relatif a facturation des frais d'hospitalisation des
assur6s sociaux dans les 6tablissements publics de sante, February 1996.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Evaluation du projet de la reforme hospitaliere dans les dtablissements
publics de san, September 1997.
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Evaluation du projet de la r6forme de gestion hospitaliere: Rapport
g6neral de svnthese, May 1996.
Ministry of Health, Republic of Tunisia, Les systemes de prestation de soins, Tunis, March 1996.
C Bank Staff Assessments
BTO reports
Evans, Jacquelynn; Mays, James, Actuarial Research Corporation, Establishing National Health Accounts in
Tunisia - Feasibility and Methods, August 1997.
Institut National de Sante Publique and Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Republic of Tunisia, eM&
sur la charge de morbidite en Tunisie - Rapport prdliminaire, March 1997.
Mays, Jim, Implications of National Health Accounts for Tunisia on Economic Analysis of Health Sector Loan
Projet, September 1997.
MENA Region, Achieving a Balanced Public-Private Sector Mix



Annex 9
Page I of 2
Annex 9
Tunisia Health Sector Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
As of 2/13/98
Amount in US$ million
(long Cancellations)
Loan or         Fiscal                                                                                            Undis-  Closing
Credit No.       Year   Borrower                            Purpose                       Bank          IDA       bursed   date
Credits
10 Credits(s) closed                                                                                   75.16
All closed      for      TUNISIA
TOTAL Number Credits _    0
Loans
93 Loans(s) closaed                                                                    2,668.26
33070-TN        1991    TUNISIA                            POPULATION & FAMILY           26.00                      1.17  03/31/1998(R)
33080-TN        1991    TUNISIA                            HOSPITAL MGT. & FIN.          30.00                     13.68  03/31/1999(R)
34560-TN        1992    TUNISIA                            HIGHER EDUCATION              75.00                     46.00  12/31/1998
35070-TN        1993    TUNISIA                            MUNICIPAL SECTOR INV          75.00                       .11  12/31/1999
36010-TN        1993    TUNISIA                            SECOND FORESTRY DEVE          69.00                     56.19  12/31/2000
36610-TN        1994    TUNISIA                            AGRICULTURAL SEC INV         120.00                     41.40  06/30/1999
36710-TN        1994    TUNISIA                            PRIVATE INVESTMENT            50.00                     12.17  12/31/1999
36730-TN        1994    TUNISIA                             PRIVATE INVESTMENT           12.00                      9.36  12/31/1999
36740-TN        1994    TUNISIA                             PRIVATE INVESTMENT            8.00                      3.01  12/31/1999
36770-TN        1994    TUNISIA                            PRIVATE INVESTMENT            10.00                       .04  12/31/1999
36780-TN        1994    TUNISIA                            PRIVATE INVESTMENT             6.00                       .57  12/31/1999
36910-TN        1994    TUNISIA                            DEV.OF MTS NW REGION          27.50                     15.94  06/30/2000
37820-TN        1995    TUNISIA                            WATER SUPPLY AND SEW          29.00                     17.21  06/30/2002
37830-TN        1995    TUNISIA                            WATER SUPPLY AND SEW          29.00                     21.95  06/30/2002
37860-TN        1995    TUNISIA                            SECONDARY EDUCATION           98.30                     64.98  06/30/2000
38400-TN        1995    TUNISIA                            RURAL ROADS                   51.50                     29.30  12/31/2002
38920-TN        199S    TUNISIA                            RURAL FINANCE                 65.00                     45.31  09/30/1999
40360-TN        1996    TUNISIA                             2ND EMPL. & TRG.             60.00                     58.90  06/30/2002
40370-TN        1996    TUNISIA                            IND. SUPPORT INSTITU          38.70                     33.05  12/31/2002
40691-TN(A)     1997    TUNISIA                            ECAL I                        37.50                     32.04  06/30/1998(R)
t   41620-TN        1997    TUNISIA                             NATURAL RESOURCE MGM         26.50                     24.79  06/30/2003
t   41740-TN        1997    TUNISIA                             GREATER TUNIS SEWER          10.00                      9.42  12/31/2004
t   41750-TN        1997    TUNISIA                             GREATER TUNIS SEWER          so.00                     46.77  12/31/2004
42020-TN        1997    TUNISIA                            MUNICIPAL DEV. II             80.00                     74.83  06/30/2003
42780-TN        1998    TUNISIA                            ASIL 2                        42.00                     40.75  06/30/2002
TOTAL Number Loans *   25                                                                1,126.00                    698.96
TOTAL***                                                             3,794.26        75.16
of which repaid                                                  1,572.64        29.90
Total held by Bank a IDA                                             2,221.61        45.26
Amount sold                39.56
of which repaid            39.56
Total undiabursed                                                                                698.96
Notes:
t    Not yet effective
t    Not yet signed
Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R)  Indicates formally revised closing date.
(A)  Indicates Adjustment Loans and Credits.
For Loans, the Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, Credits are all in market value.
The signing, effective, and closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the CoS system



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Tunisia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Held                      Disbursed-
-   IFC  -FC-
FY Approval             Company                Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973175                 Sousse-Nord            0.00     .63   0.00   0.00   0.00    .63   0.00   0.00
1986/92/98              SITEX                  1.56    2.92   0.00   0.00   1.56   2.92   0.00   0.00
1991                    SOMOTEX                2.87    0.00   0.00   0.00   2.87   0.00   0.00   0.00
1993                    Ideal Sanitaire        0.00    1.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.02   0.00   0.00
1995                    Maghreb IM Bank        0.00    .33   0.00   0.00   0.00    .33   0.00   0.00
1997                    Aminex TUN             0.00    .61   0.00   0.00   0.00    .61   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                        4.43    5.51   0.00   0.00   4.43   5.51   0.00   0.00



Annex 10
Tunisia Health Sector Project
Country at a Glance
Tunisia at a glance
M. Et  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        North  middle-
Tunisa    AfrIa  neo,         0eAlp"wn dwmndi
PopLation mkd-1995 (nWllonsJ                      9.1       279    1.125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                       2.000     2.090    t.750               Ub        y
GNP 1996 (blions USS)                             18.3     s52    1,967
Average annua gOwM, 9tt9
Populabon (%I                                     1.9       2.6      1.4                                Gn
Lbor force                                        3.0       3.3      1.8              _
Moat recent stImate (lastyearavable snce 1989)                               capita
Poverly: l nheacourt index (X o0fp0pu )            14
Urban popuIon (1 oaiohpoulado)                     57        57      56
L1e expeday at birth yea8s)                        69        66      67
Intant motalty (per 1,000 NhW at                   39        54      41               AceS to saeIWr
Child maluiltion (Y ofcildren under5)
Access to safe water (1 olpopuaion)                as        85      78
Illitracy (16 otpopudation age f+                  33        39        -
Gross primary enrollment I1 ofscoalaegepopulalon)  118       97     104
Male                                            123       104     105                  W grou            0P
Female                                          113        91     lOt
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1376    19lS      1995    1998
GOP (tbn'Otns USS)                        4.3     t4       18O      19.5
Gross domesbc investmenttGDP             28.0    30.2      24.0    24.6
Exports ot goods ansn rvtcesIGOP         31.0    32-1      44.8    42.0               Openness of rcnomwy
Gross domestc savingslGOP                26.1    24.1      20.3    22.5
Gross natonal savingstGOP                27.4    23.6       37      21.1
Current account balancelGDP               -3.9    486      -10.0    -2.7                                I
Irterest payments/GoP                     0.8     3.0       2.7      3.4     Savings                    -ntl
Total debtVGDP                           25.6    58.1      55.1    55.6
Total debt servicalexports                7.0    24.7      16.8    19.9
Preset value of debtlGOP                                   49.5
Present value of debexpons                 _              *003        -                     ebtedness
i975J5  1!;s-t#    1995     199tS 19917-0              Tutt
taverage annual growth)                                              -             unia
GDP                               5.1     4.2     2.5       6.9   .43.3               Lowe-mn eid ccntglgup
GNP per capta                     2.4     2.1     1.5       5.1    43.8
Exports of goods ant services     4.7     6.7     1.7        .5      7.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1988      1995    193
(1 of GOP)
Agnculture                               16.5    15.8      1 .8    15.8           ma     a~  andlaw
Industry                                 25.9    32.7      29.4    32.3
Manufacturng                            9.1    15.1       18.a    20.8 
Services                                 55.6    51.4      588      51.S9
Private consumpton                       59.2_   58.8      63.3    61.3
General govemment consumption            14.8    17.0      16.4    18.2               -     t      *
IPOr of goods and serics                 32.9    38. 1     48.5    44. 
197846  9 1936.96   1995    1993
(aiagews   anu gro&)                                                         Omwn, mare of wtprs aid t ne (1
Agricuture                                2 1     3.9       -9.7    29.5     ,
Industry                                  6.5     4.6       4.3      3.6
ManufaCtAring                           8.9     2.0        4.9     2.8
Sevces                                    5.2     4.0       4.5      4.2
Private consurption                       6.3     3.4       3.2      4.3
General govement cnumpton                634      3.5       4.4      3.5
Gross domestc netment                     4A      6.5       2.8      6.3     ' -
Imports of goods and sevis                6S5     6.3       3 4     -2.9
Gross national product                    5.1     4.2       3.2      8.9
Note: 1996 cata are pruliinary eswmaes Figwes in itacs are for yean oler tian those specbd
* The diamonds show bfr key hdicators in Olie wowWy (In bold) compe wvth its incone-group averago If data ae amssn. thS tlsmond wi
be incomplete



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Tunisia
PFtOES and GOVERNMENT FINCE
1978    1#5       196     196          |           -
Cmwpdc                                       ..    7.3       6.2      3.7
hnpWdtDP ddinlr                            6.0     3.6       4.8      42.
Cof GOP)                                                                           si   si          a 
Oc.rmntef11v e,                                     ..      26.2    23.1        :
Cu Udt bn                                    ..     ..       3.4      2.3
Owiall swpkiiIdSlld                         ..       .       -4,1    -4.0
TRADE
1976     #68      1098    1006                          -d_i______
fmallons USS)                                                                 Export and Inipekvat e    (silL US$)
ToW expots (fob)                           85%   1.729     5,470    ,519
FuL                                      374    7m         462      578
hgrWA                                     38       97      243      41B   := 6
mallues                                  332     877      4.701    4,293   *
TOa WV" (dH)                                     2,741     7,718    7.323     4,m -_
Food                                              333      816      629e 
Fud em l  .                                       370      49Be47,I
C*W goods                         ..15 1.5B2                                     , F- .
E*o ptice idx (7100)..                              98       146     186
Ptipikel ftnix (187100)                     *-      89       146     168                  zE:b 3_    w
1'ehrnaofbade(1987100)                      ..    110        100     100
UALANCE o PAYMENTS
1078    165       1056    1906           -
(ulUon USS)                                                                   rw ccountb to6Dpraot%l
ExpotaofgoofdsnaWvloes                   1.208   2.700     7.954    4125
kringOisf goodsmduS S oss                1.512   3.207     8.561    8.381     
Rowurcb*lane                              -226    -407       807    .256    .    a ' j          Ui i       I j
Natihme                                   *118     352      -976    1,065
Net cOlutltatb                             174     307      -223     783
fidal Capial tansad                     -170    -#52    -1.806    -528
F    bnrcl it(  t)                         163     440     1.825     837
Chwiseinnout rave                           17     113       '19    -309
Re       dudlu   gold (m.  USS             3t8     294     1.694   1.970
ConverIon st  oaJSSI                       0.4      0.8      0.9      1.0
E- I-RAL DEBT ind RESOACE FLOWS
1975    108       I6      19s     r
(mUons USS)                                                                   CoaiP.anloa Of low debt ls (miIl US$)
TOW debt AstadIg and d dxwed             1,109   4,984     9.938   10.836
liRD                                     110     6S6     1.717    1,S10
IDA                                      55       65       50       47   :
Tatal dabt ser                             103     746     1.490                      F            1A7 
mRD                                      15       88      332      303             ino?             s 1o
IDA                                       0        1         3       2                                 C
Compoallof Onot mesouce 8-                                                                              2_3
otftdw a                                  49      30        s8      70                                D
OUdala'dlor                             104      210        99     634  1128
pdvsl.aredlars                           20      109      467
Fop a   rgd   ctbwhrs.t                  45      106       264     256                  350
Potslo oqtity                             0        0        0
vde Sw* ipi
Connmibe                                 37      169       117     174        A-lRD                   E -atal
O0bumemita                               40      109       138     202      a-IoA    o- c rowddek    P-dfst
PlndrpeYmab                               7       48       205     190      C-l                       O .Sh
Not fes                                  32       61       47       12    _                         . .
bltae tpaynml                             8       41       130     116
NeAiaars                                 24       20      -197    -103
DHd:pFt EW*i                                                                                                 9N97



