Report No. PID5795
Project Name                     Tunisia-Health Sector Loan (@+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       TNPA5746
Borrower                         Government of Tunisia
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Public Health (MOH)
Project Coordinator:
Dr. Kheireddine Khaled
Director of Planning and Studies
Ministry of Public Health
Bab Saadoun, Tunis, Tunisia
Tel.# 216-1-562 917; Fax # 216-1-567 100
Date This PID Prepared           November 20, 1997
Appraisal Date                   October, 1997
Projected Board Date             March, 1998
1.      COUNTRY & SECTOR BACKGROUND. Tunisia has invested heavily in
human resources and progressively built up a comprehensive social
system. Its health indicators have improved significantly as a
result of better living conditions, greater access to education,
improved nutrition, the development of both preventive and curative
health care services, and lower birth rates over the last 20 years.
Life expectancy has increased by more than 50 percent, infant
mortality is down to 30 per thousand and population growth has
declined to 1.7 percent in 1996.
2.      The challenge of the Government is now to ensure the economic
sustainability of this social system by improving the efficiency of
the programs implemented, targeting basic services toward the most
vulnerable groups and providing the framework which will enable the
rapidly expanding private sector to develop its full potential (its
bed capacity has doubled in the last five years and the outpatient
visits are almost equal in number to those in the public sector).
Over the last ten years, the Government has placed a strong emphasis
on: (i) improving the provision and quality of care at the primary
and tertiary health care levels: today there is universal access
to primary health care services and 95 percent of the population
reside within a one-hour walking distance of a health facility; at
the tertiary care level, major organizational and management reforms
were introduced in teaching and specialized hospitals which
increased their autonomy and led to a marked improvement in their
performance; and (ii) addressing health financing issues: the free
and subsidized medical care schemes were revised to improve
targeting of the poor; the tariffs applied in public hospitals were
revised to bring them more into line with the real costs of the
services; and a reform of the health insurance funds under the
social security system is being developed based on the principles of
basic coverage combined with optional supplementary coverage, and



equal access to all providers.
3.      Conscious that the further liberalization of the economy will
place even tighter pressures on public resources and constraints on
the development of the public health sector, and encouraged by the
success of the health reforms already implemented, Tunisia has
endeavored, in its IXth 5-year Plan to: (i) ensure that regional
hospitals carry out their function of initial referral and provide
specialized care to their communities, thus relieving the teaching
hospitals of an activity for which they are not efficient; (ii)
redefine the functions of the central level and the regional
directorates while strengthening the management autonomy of public
hospitals; (iii) extend the billing experience and a simplified
version of the management tools successfully introduced in teaching
hospitals, to other facilities; (iv) introduce mechanisms for
controlling costs (capitation and global budgets as possible
options); and, (v) develop policy aimed at increasing the role for
the private sector in delivery and financing of health care.
4.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The Bank loan will support a program of
major health reforms from 1998 to 2003 which contains four strategic
objectives: i) improving the macroefficiency of investment by
establishing criteria and mechanisms to ensure that public resources
are invested in those activities where the State has a justifiable
role; ii) improving the microefficiency of operations through
management reforms; (ii) enhancing the financial sustainability of
publicly supported operations by introducing policy measures to
control costs; and, (iii) enhancing the quality of services through
improved case management and staff training. Pursuit of all four
objectives will entail strengthening the MOH's capacity to plan,
prepare, implement and monitor the impact of sector investments, and
to coordinate with the private sector.
5.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION. The proposed loan will support the
National Health Strategy as defined by the Government for the next
ten years and in particular finance activities planned in the IXth
5-year-Plan.   The instrument envisaged will be characterized by its
flexibility to adapt to the sector's rapidly changing environment.
It will focus mainly on: (i) supporting priority investments (i.e.
regional hospitals, medical emergency services and information
systems) while at the same time (ii) facilitating the development
and implementation of key reforms; and (iii) strengthening the
capacity of MOH.
6.      PROJECT FINANCING. The proposed   IBRD loan amounts to US$ 75
million, or 15 percent of the total new commitments for investments
in the 9th Plan. The balance would be financed by the Government
(70 percent), the social security system (10 percent), and other
donors (5 percent). Bank's contribution would be applied to civil
works, goods, studies and training.
7.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. The project will contribute to
improving the economic efficiency of the health delivery system,
particularly through regional hospitals and emergency medical
services. At the same time, the health management information system
- 2-



to be put in place will provide information needed for rational
decision-making. The Government is developing National Health
Accounts to monitor the sources and uses of funds for the sector.
8.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. The MOH will be the executing agency
for the project. Since activities of this project are a subset of
the IXth 5-year Plan, their implementation will be carried out
through existing MOH channels. The Project oversight committee
would mirror the ministry's management team and be headed by the
Minister. The Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP) will be
responsible for overall coordination with all Departments involved.
This will include responsibilities which are part of its natural
mandate, such as coordination for the planning, budgeting, and
programming of all planned activities and investments, with other
departments and regions. The DEP which is responsible for
preparation of the 5-year Plans and preparation/negotiations of
annual budgets with the Government, would also lead annual
discussions with the Bank to select investments eligible for Bank
financing, as well as monitor progress on all these activities.
9.      LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT. Success of
projects in Tunisia has been dependent upon: (i) the degree of
integration of the project objectives and concept into the overall
Government strategy; (ii) sufficient consideration being given to
Tunisia's preference for incremental reforms rather than "big-bang
approaches"; (iii) the degree of effort put into building consensus
around the project's concept; and (iv) the attention given to
ensuring adequate operating resources. These lessons have been
fully incorporated by the Government and the Bank in the development
of this project: (i) the project's objectives and activities are an
integral part of the health sector strategy for the next 10 years,
and are translated operationally in the IXth 5-year Plan (1997-2001)
which the Government has just prepared. With regard to consensus
building, the Government has proceeded with extensive consultations
from all stakeholders to develop its 9th Plan. The Government has
also given increased attention to ensure a level of recurrent
resources commensurate with the investments envisaged by: (i)
integrating recurrent and investment budgets under the same
ministry; and (ii) totally separating its strategic policy
formulation from its dialogue with potential financiers. In the
development of this project, the Bank has fully respected the
strategic formulation process of the Government by providing
technical advice in the development of the Health Sector Strategy
through the Hospital Restructuring Project and the PHRD Grant, and
aligning the timetable for preparation of the project with the
completion of the 9th Plan.
10.     POVERTY CATEGORY. The project is expected to have a positive
social impact. It will support the implementation of the National
Health Strategy which is based on the principles of universal
coverage, equity, quality and openness of the system to new
developments in the field. Patients will receive better quality care
in hospitals where providers and decision-makers are better trained
to manage resources and to deliver quality services. The population
overall will benefit from a quick response from emergency services
- 3-



that are more efficient and of better quality. One of the
Government's goals is to strengthen its capacity for planning,
regulating and monitoring which are necessary prerequisites for
improved coverage and quality. The project would support this goal
by developing the national health information system and by
developing the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health.
11.     ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS. The project is rated in Category B.
Please see the Annex for details.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 "H" Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No: (202) 458-5454
Fax No: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 16, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The only project input which could have an environmental impact
would be the rehabilitation of priority public health facilities. A
study of hospital solid waste disposal was carried out as part of
the on-going Hospital Restructuring Project and its recommendations
are being implemented by the Tunisian Government, and could be
financed under the loan. This will be a covenant into the loan
agreement. In addition, considerations will be given to the waste
treatment/disposal capacity at health facilities during the
preparation of facility rehabilitation plan which will be approved
by the Bank.. The assessment of the capacity to handle and dispose
properly hospital waste will be a criterion for approving the
investment sub-project.
No major environmental impact is expected. Tunisia has the
institutional and legal framework for EA reviews, and arrangement is
made so that the investment projects would be renewed by the Agence
Nationale de Protection de l'Environment and an environment
management plan would be prepared as requested by the Bank.
- 5 -



