             Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 29148

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (TF-25179 SCL-42940)

                ON A

                LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

              TUNISIA

               FOR A

       HEALTH SECTOR LOAN




             June 24, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                               Currency Unit = Euros
                                    Euro 1.0 = US$ 1.19
                                     US$ 1.0 = Euro 0.84

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country assistance strategy
DEP     Department of planning and studies
DO      Development objectives
EMS     Emergency medical services
GoT     Government of Tunisia
HNP     Health, nutrition, and population
ICR     Implementation completion report
M&E     Monitoring and evaluation
MOPH    Ministry of public health
NHIS    National health information system
NMES    National medical emergency services
PAD     Project appraisal document
SAMU    Service d'aide médicale d'urgence
TTL     Task team leader
QaE     Quality at entry



                              Vice President:   Christiaan J. Poortman
                            Country Director    Theodore O. Ahlers
                   Sector Manager/Director      Michal Rutkowski
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Anne Johansen

                                           TUNISIA
                               TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       22

Project ID: P005746                                                  Project Name: TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN
Team Leader: Anne Johansen                                           TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-25179; SCL-42940
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/02/1997                                     Effective: 06/26/1998                06/26/1998
     Appraisal: 10/03/1997                                         MTR: 11/30/2000                  04/05/2002
      Approval: 03/10/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Michal Rutkowski                               Jacques F. Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Anne Johansen                                  Eva Jarawan
ICR Primary Author:             Hadia Karam


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives (DOs) of this project were to support the government in: (i) improving the
macro-efficiency of public investments; (ii) improving the micro-efficiency of operations through
management reforms; (iii) enhancing the financial sustainability of publicly supported operations through
introduction of policy measures with regard to cost controls; and (iv) reinforcing the quality of services
through improved case management and staff training. These objectives, identified in close collaboration
with the client, were based on an analysis of the key challenges facing the Tunisian health sector at the time
of project design and also responded directly to the priorities contained in the Government of Tunisia's
Ninth Five-Year Plan (1997-2001). They remained relevant throughout the project.

The DOs supported the country assistance strategy (CAS) objective that identified human resource
development as a cornerstone of the Bank's assistance strategy to "promote quality services, equitable
access, and a financially sustainable system based on the efficient use of resources." They were also fully
in line with the Bank's Health Nutrition and Population (HNP) sector strategy. In particular, "to enhance
the performance of the health care systems by promoting equitable access to preventive and curative health,
nutrition, and reproductive services that are affordable, effective, well-managed, of good quality, and
responsive to clients; and to secure sustainable health care financing by mobilizing adequate levels of
financial resources, establishing broad-based risk pooling mechanisms, and maintaining effective control
over public and private expenditure."

Reflecting the numerous and complex problems facing the Tunisian health sector, the DOs were themselves
numerous and complex. In addition, they were very ambitious, reportedly because the borrower wanted to
exploit the leverage provided by the Bank to carry out a series of difficult reforms.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Facilitation of Sector Reforms and Key Actions and Policies. The activities under this
component intended: 1) to ensure that regional hospitals carry out their function of initial referral and
provide specialized care to their communities, thus relieving the teaching hospitals of an activity for which
they are not efficient; 2) to redefine the functions of the central level and the regional directorates while
strengthening the management autonomy of public hospitals; 3) to extend the billing experience and a
simplified version of the other management tools successfully introduced in teaching hospitals to other
facilities; 4) to introduce mechanisms for controlling costs (case-based reimbursement and global budgets
as possible options); and 5) to develop policy toward a greater role for the private sector in the delivery and
financing of health care.

Component 2: Priority Sector Investments. This component intended to support "minimum and
essential" investments in regional hospitals so that they would utilize available resources more effectively
and improve their referral capacity, as well as their ability to provide specialized care for their
communities. Additional investments were also deemed necessary to strengthen the national medical
emergency services (NMES) and to develop a national health information system (NHIS).

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening in Health Policy and Planning. To carry out the project
activities mentioned in components 1 and 2, the MoPH and particularly the Directorate of Studies and
Planning (DEP) needed to be strengthened in order to improve its capacity for planning, policy analysis,



                                                    - 2 -

and financial management. This involved appropriate training in policy analysis and formulation, study
tours for selected senior staff to examine approaches in other countries, and consensus-building seminars.
The project also assisted in establishing national health accounts and in improving the reporting and
financial management system

The project components and associated activities helped the project to achieve its DOs and took into
account lessons learned from the previous health sector project, which indicated a need for support of
sectoral reforms as well as for institutional capacity building at the central level. Both the components and
activities remained relevant throughout the project, and many of them have been incorporated into the
regular work program of the Ministry of Public Health and will continue to be further developed in the
future.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
No Quality at Entry (QaE) was undertaken. However, a retrospective assessment suggests that QaE was
generally satisfactory, based on the following criteria and assessment:

Project Concept, Objectives, and Approach. As described above, the project DOs were consistent with the
priorities identified by the GoT and the CAS. Furthermore, the project concept and approach were
supportive of both the country and sector assistance strategies and built on a successful project to reform
(autonomize) university hospitals, which the Bank had financed prior to this project. The new project was
therefore in many ways a natural extension of these reforms, albeit in a less radical way, to the regional
hospitals.

Technical, Economic, and Financial Analysis. Several analysis and studies were carried out to identify
priority needs as well as obtain baseline indicators against which project outputs could be evaluated and
monitored.

Environmental Analysis. This project was rated Category B. An environmental study on hospital waste
was carried out and its recommendations were included in the hospitals' business plan to ensure
implementation. Given that the project generally was replacing or rehabilitating hospitals (rather than
constructing new hospitals), preparations were appropriate. Thus, the environmental analysis carried out is
deemed appropriate.

Social and Stakeholders Analysis. No formal assessments were carried out prior to the beginning of the
project since the DOs clearly were intended to provide significant benefits to both patients and health care
providers.

Institutional Capacity Analysis. Considerable attention was given to this issue during project preparation.
Indeed, Component 3 of the project was established to address institutional capacity needs identified during
project preparation. This assessment also recognized that, in order for the MoPH to carry out the sectoral
reforms and implement the project activities, several new units (e.g., the quality unit, the medical
emergency services unit) had to be established: they subsequently were incorporated into the design of the
project.

Readiness for Implementation. Due to government pressure to complete it prior to the end of a fiscal year
and prior to the closing of the previous project, the project was prepared over a three-month time period.



                                                     - 3 -

Under the best of circumstances this is unlikely to be sufficient for adequate project preparation.
Nevertheless, the previous project was being well implemented so the team used it as a basis for assessing
this project. In hindsight, it appears that the assessment of project and financial management capacity was
too hasty. The then-excellent project and financial management teams were superseded, toward the end of
this project, by a new director and a new team without prior experience in implementing Bank-financed
projects. Given the complexity and size of the project, it is not surprising that an implementation delay of
almost 18 months occurred.

Risk and sustainability. Overall project risks were well identified during project preparation and
successfully addressed during project implementation. Only one risk among the nine identified in the project
appraisal document (PAD) ended up not being adequately mitigated (momentum for health insurance
reform interrupted), but this had minimal impact on the project's ability to achieve its DOs, and the only
risk not identified at appraisal was a series of unexpected turnovers of the Minister of Health.

Concerning project sustainability, the decentralized implementation strategy was intended to maximize
sustainability of the project, as was the close alignment of the project objectives with the identified
priorities of the GoT and the MoPH. In retrospect, this was a highly successful strategy.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project has achieved its development objectives since all of the individual DO ratings (see
below) are satisfactory. It should be noted, however, that the satisfactory achievement of the DOs was the
result of the rapid increase in the implementation of the project activities and reforms during the last two
years of the project, which included a one-year extension.

The first development objective -- to improve the macro-efficiency of public investments -- is rated
satisfactory. This DO should be judged by improvements in the allocative efficiency of the health system,
since the project's investments in improved infrastructure, equipment, and staff training at the regional level
were intended to improve the respective capacity and quality of services, as well as to increase the
utilization of regional hospital services (as a way to reduce the pressure on university hospitals). Reports
from regional hospital directors and staff are highly supportive of the improvements resulting from the
project, particularly due to the increase in equipment and specialist staff, which grew by 47 percent
between 1968 and 2003. Furthermore, project monitoring indicators show significant increases in
productivity levels at the regional hospitals.       For example, the number of specialist consultations,
outpatient visits, surgical interventions, and admissions increased by 28 percent, 23 percent, 22 percent,
and 21 percent, respectively. Finally, evidence suggests that there has been a reduction in the percentage of
patients transferred from the regional level to a higher level of care.

The second development objective -- to improve the micro-efficiency of operations through management
reforms -- is also rated satisfactory. This DO should be judged by the improvements in the technical
efficiency of the health services provided. While the project monitoring indicators did not measure
efficiency improvements resulting from improved hospital management, hospital directors and
administrative staff report substantial improvements in administrative efficiency resulting from the
decentralization of many administrative activities to the regional hospitals, the computerization of the
regional hospitals, including a new billing system, which has improved the quality of the data reported,
reduced errors, and transaction costs. Other initiatives, including new equipment and staff training have
also contributed to technical efficiency by increasing the speed and ability of the staff to carry out their
tasks. Measures of technical efficiency related to medical outputs indicate that afternoon consultations



                                                      - 4 -

almost doubled (189 percent), and the average occupancy rate at regional hospitals increased by 18 percent
(from 54 percent to 72 percent), while other indicators remained constant.

The third development objective -- to enhance the financial sustainability of publicly supported operations
through the introduction of policy measures addressing cost control--is rated highly satisfactory. A new
billing system (Système de Facturation) was implemented in the regional hospitals based on a simple
system of diagnostic-related groups, which expanded from 5 to 21 during project implementation.
Furthermore, annual hospital budgets are now developed based on analysis of actual expenditures data.
Since the beginning of the project, the proportion of regional hospitals expenses recovered from the Social
Insurance Funds has increased from 2.2 percent in 1998 to 63.75 percent in 2003, while the percentage
received from the State has declined from 58.6 percent in 1998 to 7.1 percent in 2003 (the remaining
funds--39.2 percent in 1968 and 29.2 percent in 2003--were direct patient payment (or copayment) for
services received).

The fourth development objective -- to reinforce the quality of services through management and staff
training -- is rated satisfactory. It should be noted, however, that although the DO states that quality of
services is to be improved through management and staff training, looking only at quality improvements
from this source would overlook other equally, or more important, sources of quality improvements
resulting from the project. In particular, the investments made in infrastructure and equipment at the
regional hospital level have contributed significantly to the quality of care as have more and better-trained
staff. These improvements are documented in a 2002 provider and patient satisfaction survey at seven of
the regional hospital project sites which found quality to have improved in a large number of domains. For
example, between 70 and 80 percent of respondents indicated that the reception area, exterior appearance
of the renovated hospitals, the heat, and the respect shown to patients by nurses had improved. In addition,
between 50 and 70 percent of respondents indicated that the hospital rooms, the cleanliness, the quality of
the medical equipment, and the number of specialists and nurses had improved, as had the respect for the
patients and their families, the organization of the hospital, and the time to obtain diagnostic services.
Others quality improvements were noted but only by 30 to 50 percent of the respondents; for example, 40
percent indicated that hospital food had improved, while 47 percent indicated that medicines had become
more widely available.

In addition, the development of quality assurance policies at the national level and the national strategy for
emergency medical services have also contributed to improvements in quality of care, albeit at a slower rate
than originally anticipated. These improvements in the quality of care are not only supported by reports
from hospital directors and staff but are documented in the above-mentioned survey of patients and staff in
regional hospitals, where between 11 and 53 percent of patients report improved emergency care.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Facilitation of Sector Reforms:
The component is rated satisfactory as the key sectoral reforms have been completed and approved by the
government. At project end, only 2 out of the 11 originally planned sectoral reforms had not been approved
by the government, and they are expected to be approved in the near future. This is a considerable
accomplishment given the fact that most of the reforms were only approved after the midterm review.
Among the most important reforms (or policy developments) are a revision of the definition of basic
(medical) specialties (April 23, 2002); a revision of the organization and management of regional hospitals
(July 4, 2002); the establishment of regional centers of excellence (April 23, 2002); and the establishment
of a "Comité de Nursing" at university hospitals (April 26, 2002). These reforms were explicitly designed
to accompany the investments in infrastructure and equipment to improve access to specialized care at the
regional level by adding additional staff and specialties at the regional level, by improving staff training,



                                                     - 5 -

and by updating the management structure of regional hospitals. Other needed reforms included the
development of standard operating procedures, information systems, and new billing systems. These
measures were both important and necessary complements to the infrastructure and equipment investments
and contributed to the project's achievements.

As noted earlier, a national strategy for quality of health care has been developed and will be implemented
in the context of the Tenth Five-Year Plan. This is a welcome achievement after a slow start in this area
due to the prevailing medical culture in Tunisia. Also, while an emergency medical system (EMS) strategy
was developed, its implementation was slower than anticipated due to the prevailing culture and the
difficulty in working with different government units (i.e., MoPH, Ministry of the Interior) but more than
70 percent of the EMS activities and reforms concerning the EMS were fully completed by the end of the
project. Furthermore, the MoPH remains strongly committed to continue the improvement of the EMS, as
evidenced by the inclusion of this subject as a priority in the Tenth Five-Year Plan and the establishment,
and continued functioning of, the EMS unit created under the project.

Finally, it should be mentioned that the GoT has made commendable progress towards its goal of increased
decentralization to the regional hospitals and regional directorates of health. In particular, these are now
able to carry out almost 2/3 of capital investments in agreements with the MoPH, to hire agreed staff, and
to pay several categories of staff at regional hospitals.

Component 2: Priority Sector Investments
This component is rated satisfactory, as virtually all the planned sector investments were completed by the
closure of the project. This is a major achievement in light of the early implementation delays and
attributable to tremendous work done by the MoPH during the last two years of the project.

This component covered four subcomponents: (i) civil works (hospital construction/rehabilitation), (ii)
medical equipment, (iii) equipment for the emergency medical system, and (iv) equipment/software to
establish the national health information system and computerize regional hospitals.

Subcomponent 1: Civil works. After initial long delays due to inadequate preparation time this component
proceeded well. Ten (Ben Arous, Sfax, Jebeniana, Menzel Bourgiba, Sidi Bou Sid, Gafsa, Sousse, Nabeul,
Le Kef, and Bir Lahmar) of the 12 hospitals to be rehabilitated under the project have been fully completed,
and the remaining two (at Gabes and Tozeur) only were missing the installation of an elevator and the
completion of a laundry room, which are expected to be completed within a short period of time. The 12
hospitals chosen for rehabilitation were selected as part of a national hospital strategy aimed at reinforcing
the regional hospitals to better serve their catchment populations. According to an expert assessment, eight
of the 12 hospital works were done in a highly satisfactory manner, while the remaining four were
satisfactory.

Subcomponent 2: Medical Equipment. An expert assessment of this subcomponent indicates that overall
the purchase and installation of medical equipment as well as the associated staff training and management
of the equipment were completed in a satisfactory manner. The equipment acquired is of high quality,
enabling the hospitals to offer services that did not exist prior to the acquisition. Both doctors and hospital
directors are satisfied by this activity as it has allowed them to improve their service delivery. However,
this result was achieved in spite of a number of difficulties throughout the project life, including downsizing
of the technical staff (from 6 engineers to 4) in the Equipment Unit of the Ministry of Public Health
(MoPH) while the work load was increasing. Other difficulties were created by a decentralization to the
regional hospitals of the procurement of part of the medical equipment. While this policy in principle is a
good one, it appears that both the Bank and the MoPH underestimated the amount of training and


                                                      - 6 -

supervision this decentralization required. As a result, it continued to cause difficulties that were only
resolved after an intensive monitoring effort towards the end of the project. In large part due to this effort,
95 percent of the funds allocated to the regional hospitals for medical equipment were disbursed, but the
regional hospitals remain in need of additional training in procurement and financial management. Other
aspects of this subcomponent have succeeded well, as evidenced by the growing participation of MoPH in
seminars and scientific publications, the creation of a Commission Nationale de Matériovigilance to ensure
patient safety, and the availability of management tools (inventory and maintenance).

Subcomponent 3: Emergency Medical System (EMS). As stated in component 1, the EMS activities
included sector reform measures and investment measures. While the reform measures were not fully
implemented, the investment aspects of this project were completed in a satisfactory manner. This included
the construction and equipment of 2 SAMUs (Service d'aide médicale d'urgence) and the purchase of a
number of medically equipped ambulances. In addition to these activities, training of staff and
reorganization of emergency services at the hospital level have also been achieved, as has the development
of a national EMS strategy based on an economic analysis of EMS needs.

Subcomponent 4: National Health Information System (NHIS). A national health information system was
developed and implemented under the project. The objective of which is to improve the planning for, and
monitoring of, the national health strategy. The indicators in the NHIS were developed with participation
from all relevant units in the MoPH, thereby ensuring ownership and utility of the system. From an
infrastructure point of view all the elements have been fully completed. This activity is a major achievement
that is unlikely to have been possible without the support of the project. Only one or two other countries in
the Middle East Region have developed such a system. The MoPH uses data generated by the NHIS to
allocate hospital budgets, which are now based on actual cost data rather than on historical budgets, as was
the case in the past.

Another important achievement is the computerization of regional hospitals and their linking to the central
health information center. Under this subcomponent, 36 hospitals were equipped with computers, a local
area network, and software programs covering, inter alia, admissions, billing, and outpatient registration
were installed. According to the users, these applications greatly improved both the efficiency and quality
of information and billing data produced by these hospitals. In addition, the ICR mission was able to
ascertain a high level of satisfaction by the users and a reported improvement in the ability of these
hospitals to plan and monitor their activities.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
This component is rated satisfactory, because all of its activities have been completed, including numerous
studies (e.g., a health and health utilization and expenditure survey, patient satisfaction survey, national
health accounts, hospital cost studies), a large number of training courses, workshops, and study tours.
Furthermore, the staff in the MoPH have received additional training in health sector reform; medical staff
have been trained in emergency services; and administrative staff at regional hospitals are being trained in
management skills. A training program has also been developed for supervisory nurses as well as for
medical equipment technicians.

The outcome of these activities, particularly the studies, has produced data, information, and analyses that
have already been used to plan future programs, develop new health policies (e.g., a new emphasis on the
prevention and treatment of chronic diseases), and to develop new resource allocation and provider
payment methods. Finally, every regional hospital has been reinforced with specialized doctors: from
1998-2202, 31 pediatricians, 12 OB/GYNs, 10 surgeons, and 18 radiologists were hired. Thus, the
capacity of these hospitals to provide better and more-specialized care has been improved. The


                                                     - 7 -

management staff at both the MoPH and at regional hospitals has also been strengthened in numbers (70
regional managerial positions and 26 new regional support positions were created) and the growth in
numbers is expected to continue. As a result, the MoPH's capacity to plan, manage, and evaluate hospital
services has been greatly improved.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project Assessment Document did not contain an economic evaluation as this type of project, which
combines a variety of sectoral reforms and investments in civil works and equipment, does not lend itself to
such assessment.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The rating is substantial. This project has had significant impact on institutional development in the
(public) health sector, both at the central and the regional level. Regional hospitals have been significantly
improved, both in terms of infrastructure, equipment, and technical and managerial staff. Furthermore,
these hospitals are now significantly more productive and provide better quality care. On a managerial
level, they now have considerably greater administrative powers and carry out a much larger number of
functions than in the past, in terms of the operational and capital budgets. Moreover, the management
structure has been reformed and managerial tools, such as information systems, have contributed to
improved management and functioning of these hospitals.

At the central level, the Ministry of Health's capacity to manage the health system has been significantly
improved through a series of training courses, the development of a health information system that
electronically links the MOPH's Health Information Center with the Regional Hospitals. Furthermore, a
special information system has been created for the MOPH to allow it to monitor and better manage the
performance of the health system, which has resulted in improved evidence-based policy development and
program planning. These information systems have enabled the MOPH to develop and implement a much
improved budgeting process that includes an analysis of cost and productivity data and which better reflects
the reality facing hospital managers.

Finally, several new units have been created and staffed at the MOPH to improve its capacity to address
important health system issues (quality of care and emergency medical services). These units are fully
operational and are continuing the activities initiated under the program, which are among the priorities
listed in the Tenth Five-Year Plan, currently under implementation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The only noteworthy factor outside the control of the government or implementing agency that affected
project implementation was the fact that consensus building among the various partners took longer than
expected as they were some resistance to change.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Strong political will and government commitment contributed to the satisfactory implementation of the
project. Counterpart funds were readily forthcoming throughout the project. However, frequent turnover of
the Minister of Health hampered rapid implementation during the first part of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                      - 8 -

Coordination within MoPH at the beginning of the project was weak and some of the key players were
unclear about their roles and responsibilities, which resulted in significant implementation delays. The
decentralized way in which the project was implemented created a number of challenges, but also had a
number of advantages (see discussion below concerning sustainability). Among these challenges, the most
important one was the lack of a director with authority over all of the implementing units. While the project
had a capable coordinator (the director of the `Planning and Studies Unit,' the DEP, which was also one of
the implementing units), he was in no (hierarchical) position to pressure units not performing adequately.
The Project Oversight Committee, chaired by the Minister of Health, was intended to carry out this role but
did not seem to succeed in this task either, which contributed to the early delays in project implementation.

Other challenges included some instances of insufficient resources (including staff and office equipment) as
well as some cases of inadequately trained and poorly supervised staff. It should be noted that the MoPH
generally was quick to address inadequacies when they were brought to its attention. The only challenge
that remained throughout the project was an apparent difficulty in producing adequate and timely financial
reports (also noted in the project audit reports), a problem in part exacerbated by limited Bank supervision
missions during the early years of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was implemented between June 1998 and December 2003 at an original estimated cost of
US$101 million, of which US$50 million, or FRF297,600,000, represented the loan amount. In January
2001, when the Euro (EUR) became effective, the loan amount was converted into the new currency. By
the project's closing date EUR45,350,842.27 was disbursed, leaving no undisbursed balance.

Originally, the project was supposed to close on December 31, 2002. However, it was extended by one year
to December 31, 2003. This extension was granted at the request of the Government of Tunisia to enable
MOPH to complete all project activities and disburse the loan amount. Given the progress made during this
extension, and the fact that the project has achieved its development objectives, the extension was clearly
warranted.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely as all the measures that have been introduced by this project have their
foundation in the government's Nineth Five-Year Plan and the project was the key vehicle to implement the
plan. Moreover, the reforms implemented and the activities initiated during the project continue to be of key
importance to the implementation of the Tenth Five-Year Plan and the achievement of its objectives. The
government's continued commitment to ensure the sustainability and further development of the project's
activities is also clearly reflected in its current and planned resource allocations, which include funding and
staffing of the newly created units, as well as further development of the health information system and the
hospital billing system. Other efforts are in place to continue the implementation of the national strategies
on emergency services and quality of care, as evidenced by the on-going activities, including a recent
conference on quality of care (cosponsored by the Bank and the World Health Organization Eastern
Mediterranean Regional Office) which yielded both action plans and firm commitment from the MOPH and
the participants to carry out a number of quality improvment initiatives.

Sustainability of the rehabilitated hospitals and the new services offered at regional hospitals is well
established, as maintenance of the sites and the new equipment has been incorporated in the MoPH's
budget. Furthermore, the positions created are permanent and will be fully funded in the future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



                                                        - 9 -

As noted above, the project activities were integrated in the existing operations of the MoPH and the
regional hospitals, hence the only transitional arrangements that have to be made is for payment under the
MoPH budget of the few remaining contracts (for equipment and civil works) that were not completed prior
to the project closing date. All other activities are part of the Tenth Five-Year Plan that was developed by
the MoPH and is being implemented by the existing units within the Ministry.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory, although it should be noted that the Bank's appraisal of the
project design could have been better, as could its assessment of the borrower readiness to implement the
project. The fact that project preparation was initiated prior to the closing of the Hospital Restructuring
Reform Support Project allowed the design to benefit from the lessons learned from the implementation of
the previous loan. The Bank team played a key role in the dialogue with the government on the content and
orientation of the project. In addition, it ensured that the ultimate project design was prepared in a
participatory manner (through workshops during pre-appraisal and appraisal missions), which contributed
to the acceptance and success of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision varied considerably throughout the life of the project. During the first two years of
implementation (1998 and 1999) at least two supervision missions took place each year, but during 2000
and 2001 only one mission per year was carried out. However, from the midterm review in early 2002 and
until the end of the project (12/2003) supervision missions again became both more frequent and regular.
The period of infrequent missions was the result of a combination of inadequate resources (both financial
and human), staff turnover, and regional security concerns, particularly September 11, 2001, which
resulted in an extended travel ban, and to a lesser extent the Iraq war in 2003. Two changes of team
leadership and the replacement of all other (Bank) project staff created significant problems of continuity
and (understandable) frustrations on part of the MoPH, in part counteracted by the continuity of several of
the technical experts, particularly, the EMS, NHIS, and the medical equipment specialists, who remained
the same throughout the project.

As noted above, supervision significantly changed with the midterm review. During this mission the team
thoroughly assessed project performance and progress and remedial actions were agreed with the borrower.
Progress on these actions were closely monitored by the Task Team Leader (TTL) between missions and
additional follow up was made when progress lagged, resulting in major improvements in implementation
progress as well as in disbursement, and ultimately to the successful completion of the project. Another
element contributing to turning implementation around was the fact that more frequent missions took place,
facilitated by the proximity of the Task Team Leader who in the last year of the project was based in West
Bank and Gaza Country Office.

In summary, in spite of some inconsistencies in Bank supervision, the intensive supervision and close
monitoring efforts, particularly during the last two years of the project, which contributed to ensuring a
successful project outcome, warrant an overall satisfactory rating.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory since both lending and supervision functions are rated
satisfactory. However, it should be noted that future project would benefit from the lessons learned from
this project on these dimensions.




                                                      - 10 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation is rated satisfactory in light of the strong commitment to the project and the intensive
preparatory work in which the MoPH engaged. Under the close supervision and personal involvement of
the Secretary General, three task forces designed the key project components and activities, in particular
those related to the sectoral reform program, the needed strengthening of regional hospital, the improvement
of the EMS, and the plan for the SNIS. They also contributed to the preparation of needed surveys and
economic analyses prior to project appraisal, and took part in workshop design for the investment
component of the project. Finally, a "fiche de projet" was developed, outlining the criteria for selection of
the investments needed at the regional level. This fiche also served as a valuable tool for the Tunisian team
in prioritizing the investments, as well as in building the capacity of the MoPH to plan and carry out
economic analyses and to provide quality assurance for the activities carried out at the regional level. The
only real shortcoming of the project preparation was the speed with which it was carried out, because, as
noted above, insufficient time was allocated to ensure that all the implementing units were fully operational
at project launch.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Since the government -- the MoPH -- was the implementing agency for this project, the only thing to note
here is the satisfactory financial performance on the part of the GoT, which provided all the planned project
financing in a timely manner.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency is rated satisfactory, since after the slow start, the project
managed not only to complete virtually all the planned activities but also to satisfactorily achieve its
development objectives. This is a considerable achievement considering the complexity of the project and
the initial difficulties and implementation delays. As noted above (section 4.2), there were a number of
challenges that had to be overcome before the project could document strong acceleration in project
implementation (by September 2002). In particular, there was an initial need to clarify the role of the
different implementing units, to improve the coordination among these units, to reinforce the project team
through the recruitment of additional staff, improved training, and better equipment, as well as the creation
of new organizational units.

The project benefited from the commitment and continuity of the staff involved in project implementation in
the MoPH, particularly the project coordinator. Staff turnover at the regional hospitals, however,
contributed to some of the problems mentioned above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
With both preparation and implementation rated satisfactory, overall borrower performance is also rated
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l The project's significant implementation delay was to a large extent caused by insufficient time for
    preparation and inadequate capacity building and training prior to the launch of the project. Future
    projects would benefit from special attention to these matters to avoid similar implementation delays. It
    is recommended that training in procurement, financial management, and progress reporting be
    conducted prior to launching the project. While doing this, it is critical to ensure that those who will be
    handling these functions at the central and regional level be targeted.




                                                    - 11 -

l Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) indicators proved inadequate to serve as a management tool
     for both the borrower and the Bank. It is recommended to develop operationally relevant M&E
     indicators at the design stage which can be monitored throughout the project implementation.

l Project implementation was clearly hindered by repeated turnover of both the team leader and the entire
     Bank project team. While changes in team leadership are bound to happen, it is critical to ensure
     adequate time and resources for hand-over. Furthermore, it is critical to maintain adequate reporting
     and documentation of project implementation in order to ensure better continuity.

l Sustainability of the project has clearly been much enhanced by having the implementation of project
     activities incorporated into the daily routines of the implementing agency. However, this decentralized
     implementation process also resulted in a significantly increased need to ensure proper coordination
     among the implementing units and the creation of appropriate oversight mechanisms, something which
     proved difficult to achieve.

l The project's complex design threatened the successful achievement of its development goals. Much
     simpler project designs would be desirable, except in exceptional cases with proven capacity on the
     part of the implementing agency. Simpler project design would also have the advantage of reducing the
     need for supervision funds, which without additional consultant trust-funds would have been
     completely inadequate to properly supervise all aspects of the project.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower provided its comments in French, below is a summary of these comments in English.

Overall, the Borrower was in agreement with the ICR outcomes with two exceptions. First, the Borrower
felt that the rating "moderate" for Institutional Development Impact and "likely for sustainability are not
well founded and have requested that these be changed to respectively to substantial and highly likely.
Second, the Government requested that the paragraph 5.1 be changed to read project delays were inherently
due to the resistance to change in general and time was needed to build consensus among the various
partners.

The above has been taken into account in the final version of the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not yet available

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not yet available

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved allocative efficiency in the health  n/a
sector: (a) no. outpatient consultations (OC)                                (a) 1,531,541; (b) 282,597; (c) 1,336,249
at regional hospitals (RHs); (b) no.                                         (d) 35.3%
admissions at RHs; (c) no. specialist
consultations at RHs; (d) Emergency cases
(ER) as % of total OC and ER

Improved technical efficiency in the health   n/a                            (a) 188; (b) 593; (c) 245
sector: (a) no. afternoon outpatient
consultations; (b) no. surgeries/operating
theater at regional hospitals (RHs); (c) no.
surgeries/surgeon at RHs

Strengthen financial sustainability:          n/a
(a) % contribution from the Social Security                                  (a) 62.5%; (b) 112.8%; (c) 97.9%
Funds (SSF) to the budget of regional
hospitals (RHs); (b) % of costs covered by
RH budget; (c) revenue from SSF as % of
total revenue

Improved quality of services                  n/a                            Survey shows improved quality of care
                                                                             reported by both providers and patients

No projections were made in the last PSR, hence the only data available is the actual data which is based
on the CY2002 as the CY2003 data is not yet available.

Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Production of well-developed planning     n/a                            Xth five year plan in effect; (b) MDs: 1,135;
documents which utilize relevant and                                         Biologists: 15; Pharmacists: 47; Dentists: 67;
accurate data; (b) no. personnel in each                                     High-level technicians: 1,939; Nurses: 6,107;
category at Regional Hospitals (RHs).                                        Administration Managers: 102; Support staff:
                                                                             399; Technical Managers: 74; Workers:
                                                                             2,946; Total staff: 12,573
(a) Management procedures manual for          n/a                            (a) Training on utilization of above manuals
regional hospitals; (b) Global Report on the                                 done; (b) in process of finalization; (c) done
evaluation of performance of the system
(SNIS); (c) annual standardized report for
each Regional Hospital


Establishment of a more decentralized and     n/a                            Development of methodology for budget
participatory form of management: regional                                   preparation - done
participation in budget preparation


Strengthen quality of services: clients       n/a                            Survey completed; results show improved
perception of access to, and use of, and                                     quality of care as reported by providers and
satisfaction with health care services                                       patients (at regional hospitals)

1End of project
No projections were made in the last PSR, hence the only data available is the actual data which is based
on the CY2002 as the CY2003 data is not yet available.




                                                          - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Facilitation of Sector Reforms                            5.00             5.75
2. Priority Sector Investments                              91.00           88.58
3. Institutional Strengthening                               5.00             6.67

Total Baseline Cost                                        101.00          101.00
                          Total Project Costs              101.00          101.00
                    Total Financing Required               101.00          101.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           36.00         6.00          0.00         42.00
                                   (0.00)         (18.00)      (3.00)          (0.00)       (21.00)
2. Goods                           40.00           10.00         4.00          0.00         54.00
                                  (20.00)          (5.00)      (2.50)          (0.00)       (27.50)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         3.00          0.00          3.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.70)          (0.00)       (0.70)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         2.00          0.00          2.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.80)          (0.00)       (0.80)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           40.00           46.00        15.00          0.00         101.00
                                  (20.00)         (23.00)      (7.00)          (0.00)       (50.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            7.50           26.75        0.00           0.00        34.25
                                   (3.34)         (11.02)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (14.36)
2. Goods                           36.88           23.92        0.00           0.00        60.80
                                  (18.44)         (11.46)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (29.90)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         3.00           2.95         5.95
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.72)         (0.00)       (0.72)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                - 14 -

                                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               44.38             50.67              3.00             2.95             101.00
                                           (21.78)           (22.48)            (0.72)            (0.00)           (44.98)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Facilitation of Sector       2.50         2.50                     2.25         3.50                  90.0     140.0
Reforms
2. Priority Sector             45.00        46.00                    42.01         46.57                 93.4     101.2
Investments
3. Institutional                2.50         2.50                     0.72         5.95                  28.8     238.0
Strengthening

   Actual data as of April 25, 2004.




                                                           - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 16 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/97                     2    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1/98                      5    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); INFORM.SYST. SPEC.
                                             (1); MEDICAL
                                             EMERGENCY. SPEC (1);
                                             MIS SPECIALIST (1);


 Supervision
              05/1998                   7    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); INFORM.SYST. SPEC.
                                             (1); MEDICAL
                                             EMERGENCY. SPEC (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             QUALITY OF CARE SPEC.
                                             (1)
              10/1998                   3     OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              11/1998                   5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HOSPITAL WASTE MGT
                                             SPT (1); MIS SPECIALIST (1)
              03/1999                   1    ARCHITECT (1)
              05/1999                   6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             INFORM.SYST. SPEC. (1);
                                             MEDICAL EMERGENCY.
                                             SPEC (1); ARCHITECT (1);
                                             MIS SPECIALIST (1)
              12/1999                   6    TEAM LEADER (FORMER)             S               S
                                             (1); TEAM LEADER (NEW)
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); EMERGENCY H.S. SPEC.
                                             (1); ARCHITECT (1); MIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/2000                   7    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               S
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);



                                              - 17 -

                                               EMERGENCY SPEC. (1); MIS
                                               SPECIALIST (1); EQUIPMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); PORTFOLIO
                                               MANAGER (1); HEALTH
                                               SECTOR MANAGER (1)
               02/2001                    4    HEALTH SECTOR LEADER                     S           S
                                               (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                               (1); HEALTH SECTOR
                                               MANAGER (1); MIS
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
               03/2002                    5    TASK TEAM LEADER                         U           U
                                               (FORMER) (1); TASK TEAM
                                               LEADER (NEW) (1); HMIS
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               EMERGENCY MEDICINE
                                               SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                                               (1);
               06/2002                    5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                    S           S
                                               INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); MEDICAL
                                               EQUIPMENT SPEC (1);
                                               PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
               05/2003                    6    TTL (1); HMIS EXPERT (1);                S           S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                               ER EXPERT (1); MEDICAL
                                               EQUIP. EXPERT (1)
               10/2003                    2    MISSION LEADER (1);                      S           S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)


 ICR
               02/2004                    8     TTL (1); HMIS EXPERT                    S           S
                                                (1); OPERATIONS
                                                OFFICER (2); ER EXPERT
                                                (1); MEDICAL EQUIP.
                                                EXPERT (1) ARCHITECT
                                                (1); QUALITY OF CARE
                                                EXPERT (1)

Few planned missions were postponed or canceled due to regional security issues (i.e. September 11)

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   0                                0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       27                         245,700
  Supervision                                 62                         650,900
  ICR                                          9                          25,000
  Total                                       71                         921,600




                                                - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report, Aide-Mémoires, Project Status Reports, Consultants Reports.
2. World Bank and Government of Tunisia correspondence.
3. Project Progress Report by the Project Coordination Unit.
4. Studies prepared by various consultants.
5. ICR prepared by the World Bank for the Hospital Restructuring Reform Support Project in Tunisia.
6. Perception des Usagers de la Qualité des Soins dans les Hôpitaux Régionaux, Study by M. Hsairi et al.,
November 2002.
7. Etat Récapitulatif des Fiches d'Indicateurs et de Suivi de la Mise à Niveau des Hôpitaux Régionaux,
CY2002.
8. Enquête d'Evaluation de la Satisfaction des Prestataires vis-à-vis du Projet Sectoriel Santé en Direction
des Hôpitaux Régionaux, Etude realisée pour le compte de l'INSP, Hayet Moussa, Decembre 2002.
9. Stratégie Nationale d'Amélioration Continue de la Qualité des Soins et des Services de Santé,
République Tunisienne, Decembre 2003.
10. Etude Economique sur le Réseau des Soins d'Urgence en Tunisie, Draft Préliminaire, Decembre 1998.




                                                    - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

                             Rapport d'évaluation de fin d'exécution
                                         du projet sectoriel santé


I. Les objectifs du projet

L'objectif d'ensemble du projet sectoriel santé, tel que énoncé dans le document de préparation du projet
était d'appuyer un programme de réformes majeures de la santé durant la période de 1998 à 2001.

Il comporte 4 objectifs stratégiques :
i)       améliorer l'efficacité des investissement publics au niveau macro-économique
ii)      améliorer l'efficacité des opérations au niveau micro-économique par le biais des réformes de
gestion
iii)     accroître la viabilité financière des activités financées par les services publics par l'introduction de
mesures de contrôle de coûts
iv)      accroître la qualité des services par le biais d'une prise en charge améliorée et de la formation du
personnel.

Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le projet sectoriel santé a ciblé trois composantes prioritaires et d'un ensemble
de mesures sectorielles.

Les trois composantes concernées par le projets sont:
         a) La mise à niveau des hôpitaux régionaux
         b) Le développement et la réorganisation des urgences médicales
         c) La mise en place d'un système national d'information sanitaire

Le ciblage de ces trois composantes était pertinent du fait qu'il s'inscrivent dans la stratégie du secteur de
la santé durant la période du 9ème plan ( 1996 ­ 2001 ) et que le projet vient appuyer la politique
sectorielle durant cette période.

En effet, lors des plans quinquennaux précédents, la priorité a été accordée au 1er niveau par le biais du
projet population et santé familiale et au 3ème niveau par le biais du projet d'appui à la réforme de la
gestion hospitalière.

Par ailleurs, dans une logique de poursuite des réformes et afin de doter le secteur des moyens lui
permettant de faire face aux nouveaux défis, il était nécessaire d'entamer la réalisation d'un ensemble de
mesures sectorielles qui s'inscrivent dans une vision à long terme.

II. Les résultats du projet

o        La mise en place d'un réseau de services sanitaires intégrés et régionalisés pour assurer la
continuité des soins.
o        L'amélioration des prestations des urgences hospitalières.
o        la mise en place d'un système national d'information sanitaire.
o        La mise en place d'une stratégie nationale d'assurance qualité et de promotion de la recherche dans



                                                       - 22 -

le domaine de la santé.
o       Le parachèvement d'un ensemble de mesures sectorielles visant à :
             Ø larationalisationdel'utilisationdesmoyensexistantsparlamodernisationdesmodesde
             gestion et la révision de l'organisation des hôpitaux régionaux.
             Ø l'adaptationprogressivedufinancementdessoinsauxcoûtsréelsetà larépartitiondes
             bénéficiaires
             Ø lamaîtrisedescoûtsdessoins
             Ø l'adaptationdesorganesdegestiondusystèmedesanté
             Ø l'intégrationdusecteurprivédeprestationsdesoinsdanslesystèmedesanté
             Ø garantirl'adéquationdesprofilsdepersonnel

II. 1. La mise en place d'un réseau de services sanitaires et intégrés et régionalisés pour assurer la
continuité des soins.

Dans l'objectif d'une amélioration de l'équilibre régional et de l'accessibilité de la population aux soins
spécialisés au niveau régional, un ensemble de mesures ont été prises:

i) Mesures législatives :
             Ø unerévisiondudécret92-884du11-5-1992relatifàlaclassificationdesstructures
             sanitaires publiques. Le nouveau texte ( décret 846 du 17 avril 2002 ) a permis
             l'élargissement de la liste des spécialités de base au niveau des hôpitaux régionaux. Il a prévu
             d'ériger un ou plusieurs services hospitaliers d'un hôpital régional chef lieu de gouvernorat en
             pôles d'excellences inter régionaux .
             Ø unerévisiondutexte(arrêtédupremierministredu11mars1995)relatifauxspécialités
             et aux régions prioritaires pour l'élargir à d'autres spécialités jugées prioritaires au niveau
             régional tel que la psychiatrie et l'urologie .
             Ø laconclusionde9conventiondeparrainagedesserviceshospitaliersrégionauxpardes
             services universitaires.
             Ø l'introductiondelatélémédecineentre4établissementshospitaliers régionauxetdes
             hôpitaux universitaires.

 ii) Un accent particulier a été accordé à la mise à niveau de l'infrastructure et la rénovation et le
 renforcement des équipements médicaux et du parc roulant.

a.      la mise à niveau de l'infrastructure
         L'objectif étant l'amélioration des conditions de travail et de la prise en charges des malades par
         la réhabilitation et l'adaptation d'un ensemble de structures qui sont au nombre de 12 ( 8 hôpitaux
         régionaux et 4 services d'urgences ) .
         Au niveau physique, tous les projets ont été un ensemble de contraintes qui expliquent la
         réévaluation des coûts ,les avenant pour certains marchés et le report de la clôture du projet d'une
         année.

         Les contraintes majeures rencontrées pour la réalisation de cette composante ont été :
             ü Leschangementsapportésauniveau desprogrammesinitiauxdecertainsprojets(Les
             hôpitaux régionaux de Nabeul, de Gabes, du Kef et le service d'urgence de l'hôpital
             universitaire Farhat Hached de Sousse)
             ü Lesproblèmesrencontrésauniveaudecertainesrégionspourlaconclusiondesmarchésen
             raison du manque de participants qui répondent au procédures exigées par la Banque Mondiale



                                                      - 23 -

             qui sont le plus souvent contraignantes
             ü Lesdifficultésrencontréesparcertainesdirectionsrégionalesdel'équipementetde
             l'habitat pour assurer au mieux le suivi et le contrôle des travaux, notamment au niveau des
             moyens humains et matériels.

b.      Le renforcement des équipement médicaux et du parc roulant
         L'objectif étant l'amélioration des moyen de diagnostic et de traitement des malades au niveau
         régional et des conditions d `évacuation des urgences médicales par le renforcement du parc du
         transport sanitaire et le renouvellement et le renforcement des équipements médicaux destinés
         d'une part à l'ensemble des hôpitaux régionaux et d'autre part au services des urgences des
         différent hôpitaux .

         La totalité des équipements programmés ont été acquis, livrés, installés et mis en service.
         Néanmoins la réalisation de cette rubrique a connu des difficultés au cours des deux premières
         années d'exécution du projet à savoir :
             ü Lecahierdeschargestypeainsiquelaméthodologiedesélectionarrêté pourlespremiers
             appels d'offres ( au cours de l'année 1999) qui ont eu l'accord préalable par la Banque
             Mondiale, ont été contestés par le même organisme par la suite ( lors de l'examen des
             dépouillements ). Cet équivoque a été contourné mais le Ministère de la Santé Publique a été
             amené à élaborer un nouveau cahier des charges type accompagné d'une méthodologie de
             sélection qui a servi pour le lancement des autres appels d'offres des années 200-2003 après
             avoir eu la non objection de la Banque Mondiale. En effet, l'acquisition des équipements se fait
             au niveau du Ministère de la Santé Publique annuellement et dans les limites des crédits
             inscrits au niveau du budget. Cette contrainte oblige parfois le Ministère à refaire des appels
             d'offres pour la même nature d'équipement chaque année entraînant une surcharge du travail et
             un manque de bénéfice sur le regroupement des achats. Pour contourner cette difficulté et
             profitant du retard du démarrage du projet, il a été convenu de regrouper les achats pour deux
             années budgétaires successives. Cette procédure a permis de rattraper les retards initiaux
             ü Certainsrapportsdedépouillementetdesélectionainsiquelepaiementdecertains
             marchés n'ont pu avoir la non objection de la Banque Mondiale et le décaissement qu'après
             plusieurs rappels et sur présentation de précisions
             ü Lepaiementdecertainsmarchésconclusavecdesfournisseurslocauxpourlapartie
             libellée en devise a rencontré également certaines difficultés malgré leur conformité avec le
             cahier des charges.

c.      L'évaluation du fonctionnement et de la mission des hôpitaux régionaux

1) le suivi de fonctionnement des hôpitaux régionaux montre une amélioration qui a touché un ensemble
d'indicateurs :

        a.       Le nombre des consultations externes au niveau des hôpitaux régionaux ont enregistré un
        accroissement annuel moyen de 4,6 % (1.241054 en 1998 à 1.526.880 en 2003 )
        b.       Le nombre des admissions au niveau des hôpitaux régionaux ont enregistré un
        accroissement annuel moyen de 4,3 % (232.920 en 1998 à 283.780 en 2003)
        c.       Le taux d'occupation moyen des lits s'est amélioré passant de 54,04 % en 1998 à 63,66
        %
        d.       Le nombre d'interventions chirurgicales a enregistré un accroissement annuel moyen de 4,3
        %    ( 68.870 en 1998 à 83.799 en 2003 ) avec une stabilisation du nombre de malades opérés par
        salle d'opération et par jour ( 1,73 en 1998 et 1,74 en 2003 )


                                                    - 24 -

         e.       Le nombre d'examens para cliniques pratiqués a enregistré un accroissement annuel moyen
         de 9,9 % ( 2.526.299 actes en 1998 à 3.785.982 actes en 2003 )

2) L'évaluation de la capacité des hôpitaux régionaux à accomplir leurs fonction montre que :

    1. Le nombre des médecins spécialistes a évolué de 563 en 1998 à 825 en 2003
    2. Le budget de fonctionnement des hôpitaux régionaux est passé de 34,09 millions de dinars à 70,210
    millions de dinars enregistrant ainsi une évolution de 106 %

II. 2. l'amélioration des prestations des urgences hospitalières

Cette composante a pour objectif          le développement et la réorganisation des services des urgences
médicales.

S `agissant d'un domaine d'intervention complexe multisectoriel qui nécessite des efforts de grande haleine
dans le cadre d'une stratégie à long terme le Ministère de la Santé publique à procédé à la réalisation des
certaines actions prioritaires à savoir :
         Ø        La création d'une unité urgence rattachée à la Direction Générale de la Santé ( décret n°98
         - 470 du 24 février 1998 )
         Ø        La mise en place d'un comité national des urgences avec 3 sous comités consultatifs
         Ø        La réalisation deux études i) une étude sur la situation des services des urgences en Tunisie
         et ii) une étude économique sur les urgences en Tunisie

Ces actions ont facilité l'élaboration d'une Stratégie Nationale des urgences qui a retenu trois axes
prioritaires
1)       Le volet pré hospitalier
2)       Le volet intra hospitalier
3)       La formation

       1. Le volet pré hospitalier: le plan d'action prévoit la création de cinq services d'aides médicales
       urgente ( S.A.M.U ) couvrant tout le territoire de la république.

       Actuellement, quatre (04) SAMU sur cinq (5) prévus sont opérationnels. Le SAMU de Gafsa est un
       projet pilote innovateur car il utilise un système mixte para médicalisé.

       Par ailleurs et dans le cadre de la coordination intersecteriolle une commission mixte est mise en
       place regroupant des représentants du Ministère de la Santé Publique et du Ministère de l'intérieur
       pour l'élaboration d'une législation visant la coordination entre les différents intervenants en cas de
       catastrophe

       2) Le secteur hospitalier, un ensemble de mesures sont réalisées:
       Des travaux de rénovation et de renforcement de certaines structures d'urgence en équipements et en
       personnel nécessaires.

       La nomination des chefs de services au niveau hôpitaux universitaires et régionaux.
       D'autre part, un décret relatif aux indemnités de garde et ses conditions d'attribution a été actualisé
       et publié sous le numéro 2001-318 du 23 janvier 2001, ce décret permet de renforcer la présence
       médicale au niveau des urgences




                                                       - 25 -

       3) La formation : un diplôme d'étude supérieur dans le domaine des urgences est instauré depuis
       l'année 1998 au niveau des 3 facultés de médecine de Tunis, Sousse et Sfax. et a permis la
       formation d'environ 200 médecins. Le centre de SAMU 03 de Sousse assure la formation des
       formateurs dans le domaine des secours. Par ailleurs la réflexion a mûri concernant l'instauration
       d'une spécialité reconnue en urgence et un consensus semble s'installer à ce sujet.

II. 3. la mise en place d'un système national d'information sanitaire

L'objectif de cette composante n'était pas bien circonscrit au début et l'expert de la Banque Mondiale
identifié initialement pour appuyer le Ministère dans la démarche à suivre n'a pas donné l'apport attendu et
une confusion s'est installée dans la définition des objectifs de cette composante.

Ce n'est qu'après l'arrivée de Monsieur George Schieber que ce volet a été clarifié.
Ainsi la mise en place d'un système national d'information sanitaire a passé par plusieurs étapes :
    i)    la mise en place d'une 1ère équipe au cours du mois de décembre 1998 qui a réalisé l'inventaire du
    système d'information sanitaire des niveaux périphériques régional et central,
    ii) la mise en place d'une deuxième équipe qui a remplacé la première au cours mois de décembre
    1999 qui a permis avec l'appui des nouveaux experts de la Banque Mondiale d'adopter l'approche la
    plus réaliste à suivre qui consiste à donner la priorité à la mise en place d'un tableau de bord central et
    le renforcement des sous systèmes d'information.
    iii) la réalisation au cours de l'année 2000 d'une étude qui a servi comme document de travail pour la
    mise en place du tableau de bord central qui est devenu opérationnel au mois de juillet 2003.

Concernant le développement des sous systèmes plusieurs actions ont été réalisées :
    Ø lamiseplacede3registresrégionauxdesdonnéesdemorbiditéetdemortalitéd'origine
    néoplasique à Tunis, à Sousse et à Sfax
    Ø un nouveaucertificatmédicaldedécès(selonlemodèleOMS)estélaboréen1999etilest
    actuellement en application
    Ø lapublicationdefaçonannuelled'unecartesanitairenationaleetrégionale
    Ø laréalisationd'uneétudesurlaconsommationmédicaleetlerecoursauxsoinsen2002­2003.

II. 4. Le parachèvement d'un ensembles de mesures sectorielles

1. La modernisation des modes de gestion des hôpitaux régionaux.

Dans l'objectif d'une rationalisation de l'utilisation des moyens existants un ensemble de mesures sont
mises en place :

    a. une nouvelle organisation des hôpitaux régionaux a été concrétisée par le décret N° 2070 du 6
    octobre 2003 relatif à l'organisation administrative et financière de ces hôpitaux. Il institue un conseil
    d'établissement , un comité médical et introduit des nouvelles sous directions : gestion des malades et
    organisation des soins .
    b. l'élaboration d'un manuel des procédures de gestion (administratives, financières, ressources
    humaines, approvisionnement et services auxiliaires)
    c. l'individualisation de la gestion des soins de santé de base au niveau régional par la création de
    groupements des soins de santé de base au niveau de chaque chef lieu de gouvernorat.
    d. l'introduction de l'outil informatique qui a touché l'ensemble des hôpitaux régionaux de façon
    progressive en ciblant les procédures de gestion des malades.
    e. le renforcement des hôpitaux régionaux par du personnel toutes catégories confondues. Ainsi le


                                                     - 26 -

    nombre de personnel a évolué de 10.724 en 1998 à 14.946 en 2003. Le nombre du personnel
    administratif est passé de 330 en 1998 dont 47 cadres à 517 en 2003 dont 115 cadres.

2.L'adaptation progressive du financement des soins aux coûts réels et à la répartition des bénéficiaires

    a. la révision des textes réglementaires régissant la gratuité des soins et les tarifs réduits de soins a été
    publié le 18 février 1998 sous le N° 98 ­ 409.
    b. l'introduction de façon progressive, depuis 1999, de la facturation aux caisses de sécurité sociales
    pour les soins prodigués aux assurés sociaux par les hôpitaux régionaux. Ce processus a permis de
    faire évoluer le pourcentage de la participation des caisses de sécurité sociales au budget de
    fonctionnement des hôpitaux régionaux de 2,2 % à 63,75 %.

    Tableau : évolution        du budget de fonctionnement des hôpitaux régionaux par sources de
    financement ( 1998-2003 )

                                    Subvention de      Participation des    Recettes Propres      Total
                                        l'Etat              Caisses
                        Annees   Montant       %      Montant      %       Montant       %
                             1998   19,982    58,60%        0,75   2,20%      13,368    39,20%     34,100
                             1999    19,48    49,91%        4,75  12,17%        14,8    37,92%     39,030
                             2000   18,513    39,82%          11  23,66%      16,979    36,52%     46,902
                             2001         7   12,50%          28  50,00%          21    37,50%     56,000
                             2002    1,532     2,35%          40  61,32%      23,703    36,33%     65,235
                             2003         6    7,08%          54  63,75%       24,71    29,17%     84,710


Il est à signaler qu'au cours de l'année 2003, le budget de fonctionnement des hôpitaux régionaux incluait
aussi le salaire du personnel ouvrier ( 14,5 Millions de dinars ) ce qui explique l'accroissement de la part de
l'état en 2003 par rapport à 2002, le salaire étant pris en charge par l'état.

Ainsi l'année 2003 constitue un tournant historique qui a vu pour la première fois les recettes des
établissements hospitaliers financer une partie du salaire du personnel.

    c. l'augmentation progressive de la part des caisses de sécurité sociale et une réduction de celle de
    l'état dans le budget global de fonctionnement du ministère de la santé publique

    Tableau : évolution du budget de fonctionnement du ministère de la santé publique par sources de
    financement ( 1998-2003 )

                                    Subvention de      Participation des    Recettes Propres      Total
                                        l'Etat              Caisses
                        Annees   Montant       %      Montant      %       Montant       %
                             1998    371,9    68,38%        99,9  18,37%        72,1    13,26%      543,9
                             1999    392,3    66,50%      116,5   19,75%        81,1    13,75%      589,9
                             2000    428,5    66,44%      128,5   19,93%        87,9    13,63%      644,9
                             2001       450   63,10%      159,5   22,37%       103,6    14,53%      713,1
                             2002    386,8    62,76%      175,5   22,62%       114,4    14,75%      775,7
                             2003    510,1    60,36%      204,5   24,20%       130,5    15,44%      845,1


d.       la réalisation d'un ensembles d'études sur les coûts qui ont servi de base pour les négociations des



                                                     - 27 -

tarifs avec les caisses de sécurité sociale

e.       la viabilité financière des hôpitaux régionaux est jugée à travers :

     o Le coefficient recettes propres réalisées + participation des caisses / budget de fonctionnement des
     hôpitaux régionaux est passé de 47,08 % en 1998 à % 92,92 en 2003
     o Le coefficient dépenses réelles / recettes réalisées des hôpitaux régionaux :
     § 38,111/37,762=102,11%en1998.
     § 89,374/84,710=105,51%en2003

Le déficit encore constaté au niveau des hôpitaux régionaux reste modeste malgré l'imputation du salaire
des ouvriers sur leurs recettes et la subvention de l'état.

3. La promotion de la qualité des soins :

Une unité qualité a été crée au sein de la D.G.S (décret n°2357 du 17 octobre 2000 )
Cette action a connu un certain retard vu la non affectation à temps d'une équipe au niveau de l'unité
crée en conséquence . Cette action a nécessité la recherche d'une qualification non disponible pour
coordonner l'élaboration d'une stratégie nationale et la préparation d'un plan d'action.

Par ailleurs, le comité national de l'hygiène a élaboré un programme national de promotion de l'hygiène
hospitalière    (programmation d'une enquête sur les infections nosocomiales et              élaboration     d'un
programme de sensibilisation )

Il est à mentionner aussi que dans le cadre de l'évaluation de la qualité des soins, trois enquêtes ont été
réalisées par le secteur :
     Ø l'unesurl'évaluationdelasatisfactiondespatientsauniveaude l'E.P.SFattoumaBourguiba
     de Monastir
     Ø l'autresurl'évaluationdelaqualitédesprestationsdessoinsdanslesservicesd'urgencedu
     district de Tunis
     Ø latroisièmesurlaperceptiondesusagersetdesprestatairesdelaqualitédessoinsauniveau
     des hôpitaux régionaux et qui a ciblé 7 hôpitaux régionaux concernés par le financement des travaux
     d'aménagement, d'extension et d'équipements dans le cadre du projet.

III. Les facteurs influençant l'exécution du projet

1.       Les facteurs favorisants

     ·   Les objectifs du projet s'inscrivent dans le cadre de la stratégie du secteur et le prêt vient financer
     une partie des programmes et des projets de cette stratégie
     ·   La gestion du projet est confiée à la direction des études et de la planification qui a entre autre une
     mission de veiller à l'exécution du plan et son évaluation
     ·   La gestion participative des différentes composantes du projet (création d'un comité de pilotage,
     identification des besoins, exécution et supervision)
     ·   La nature du projet a permis d'adopter une approche basée sur une programmation annuelle des
     composantes physiques du projet au cours des discussions budgétaires annuelles tout en s'inscrivant
     dans le cadre logique du projet et du plan
     ·   L'étroite collaboration avec la Banque Mondiale dans toutes les étapes de la planification du projet



                                                      - 28 -

    (conception ­ exécution - évaluation)


2.      Les facteurs limitant

    ·   Le caractère du projet qui englobe en plus des actions physiques un ensemble de mesures
    sectorielles et son pilotage par la direction des études et de la planification n'était pas bien compris au
    départ par les différents intervenants de l'administration centrale entraînant un retard dans leur
    adhésion ( les interlocuteurs sont habitués à des projets classiques caractérisés par un seul axe
    d'intervention avec un ensembles d'actions purement physiques prédéfinies dans l'espace et le temps )
    ·   La stratégie dans laquelle s'intègre le projet est à long terme, qui dépasse la période du 9ème plan.
    De ce fait les actions prévues dans la matrice opérationnelle étaient très ambitieuses au départ et il
    n'était pas logique de prévoir de transformer tous les modes d'organisation, de gestion, de formation et
    de financement à tous les niveaux en cinq ans ce qui a nécessité la révision de cette matrice lors de
    l'évaluation à mi- parcours du projet
    ·   Le changement des équipes de la Banque Mondiale chargées du suivi du projet a entraîné parfois
    un retard au niveau de la compréhension de l'environnement local et de rediscuter sur certains volets
    sur lesquels il y a eu un accord et/ou un consensus entre les différentes parties.
    ·   Le déménagement de certains services de la Banque Mondiale a entraîner la disparition de certains
    dossiers d'appels d'offres adressés pour examen et avis ce qui a nécessité la reconstitution de ces
    dossiers .
    ·   La condition moins-disant au dépend des critères techniques exigée par la Banque mondiale dans
    les procédures de sélection des marchés des équipements a entraîné un retard au cours des deux
    premières années d'exécution de cette composante. Une visite de responsables de la Banque mondiale
    en Tunisie au cours du mois de mai 2000 a permis de trouver une solution pour les dossiers en attente
    et de se mettre d'accord sur la procédure à suivre pour les appels d'offres qui suivent.
    ·   Le transfert de la gestion d'une partie des investissements au niveau des structures a entraîné
    parfois des retards au niveau de l'exécution qui sont le plus souvent liés à un manque et/ou une
    faiblesse des performances gestionnaires et techniques dans la gestion des marchés publics au niveau de
    ces structures. Néanmoins cette procédure a permis de familiariser les gestionnaires au niveau régional
    aux procédures de passation des marchés du fait qu'ils ont bénéficié d'un cycle de formation à ce sujet.
    ·   La réglementation tunisienne en vigueur régissant le financement des cycles de formation et de
    recyclage constitue encore un obstacle au bon déroulement de cette action. En effet la rigidité dans la
    prise en charge des cadres pour la formation ne facilite pas l'organisation des séminaires dans les hôtels
    et n'encourage pas la participation du personnel.
    ·   La gestion des marchés publics nécessitent le passage par plusieurs étapes (préparation des
    spécificités techniques, préparation des cahiers des charges et leur présentation à la commission des
    marchés et son approbation par la Banque Mondiale, publication de l'appel d'offre, création des
    commissions technique et ouverture des plis, approbation par la commission des marchés et de la
    Banque Mondiale, Importation et acquisition des équipement, paiement du fournisseur) ce qui entraîne
    un retard dans leur exécution .
    ·   L'insuffisance de coordination avec les services régionaux et les retards constatés au niveau de la
    communication des information au Ministère de la Santé Publique a posé des problèmes de gestion du
    projet.

IV. Leçons tirées




                                                      - 29 -

1.       Prendre le temps nécessaire pour la préparation du projet et éviter de tracer des objectifs ambitieux
et irréalistes sous la pression des experts qui ne connaissent pas les réalités des pays.

2.       Veillez à la continuité de l'équipe du suivi du projet qui doit pouvoir assurer aussi un suivi
gestionnaire de l'exécution du projet et faire un effort pour éviter les procédures compliquées d'approbation
des dossiers tout en accordant plus de confiances aux procédures nationales d'exécution des marchés qui
sont régis par la réglementation locale et pour lesquelles les gestionnaires sont familiarisés.




                                                     - 30 -

- 31 -

