Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4294-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4294-TUN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ANPE” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Environmental Protection 
(Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l’Environnement), established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988, and its implementation 
Decree No. 88-1784, dated October 18, 1988, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;
(b)
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and the term “Categories” means more than one Category collectively;
(c)
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de 
Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)
“DEP” means the Directorate of Studies and Planning (Direction des Etudes 
et de la Planification) within the MOPH (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year;
(f)
“French Franc” and “FRF” means each the lawful currency of the Republic 
of France;
(g)
“MOPH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health (Ministère de la 
Santé Publique), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decrees No. 
74-1064 and No. 74-1065, both dated November 28, 1974, and No. 81-793 dated June 9, 
1981, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(h)
“Oversight Committee” means the Oversight Committee (Comité de Pilotage) 
referred to in Section A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators set 
forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under the 
Project to measure the progress in the carrying out of the Project and the degree to 
which the Project objectives are being achieved, as the same may be updated from time 
in time in agreement with the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section C of Schedule 
Page  3
5 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Sector Measures” means the agreed policy and institutional measures set 
forth in a letter of even date herewith aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the 
public investments under the Project to which they are linked; and
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred ninety-seven million six hundred thousand French Francs (FRF297,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
French Francs a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to PIBOR Base Rate plus PIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"PIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the Paris 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"PIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  4
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the PIBOR Base Rate and the PIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOPH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, health and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of works, 
goods, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
Page  5
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such Year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, two in-depth management audits on the financial processes and 
control mechanisms utilized by the MOPH under the Project, and, thereafter, shall 
furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1999 and June 30, 2001, respectively, the 
report of each such audit.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  6
18060
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
French Francs)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
 124,980,000
70%
(2)
Goods
 142,830,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost), and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' Services
   8,930,000
100%
and Training
Page  7
(4)
Unallocated
  20,860,000
TOTAL
 297,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding FRF29,760,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms, under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants, under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) training, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out its 
five-year (1997-2001) Ninth Development Plan program of major health reforms aimed at 
enhancing the MOPH’s role in the national health policy reform process, and thereby: 
(i) improving the macroefficiency of investments and the microefficiency of operations 
through management reforms; (ii) enhancing the financial sustainability of 
publicly-supported operations through the introduction of policy measures for cost 
control; and (iii) reinforcing the quality of services through improved case 
management and staff training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Facilitation of Sector Reforms and Key Actions
Carrying out of a program to support and further the achievements attained in 
the implementation of the ongoing health sector reforms, through the provision of 
seminars and training on, and the carrying out of studies for: (i) the definition of 
basic specialties in regional hospitals; (ii) the improvement of regional hospitals’ 
procedures and management as required to enable them to utilize resources more 
effectively; (iii) the redefinition of the functional relations between the 
administration of the MOPH and the regional directorates, and the links between them 
and health care providers in the public and private sectors; (iv) the strengthening of 
the management autonomy of public health care facilities to correspond better to the 
existing capabilities at each level of the health system; (v) the fuller integration 
of the private sector in the health system and the introduction of incentive 
mechanisms to regulate private providers; (vi) the introduction and development of 
cost control and quality assurance measures; and (vii) the establishment of a national 
health information system to monitor and evaluate resources, activities, cost, 
quality, results and performance record of both the public and private health sectors.
Part B:
Priority Sector Investments
Carrying out of selected activities under the MOPH’s sector investment program, 
identified as strategic priorities over the next years by the Borrower’s Ninth 
Development Plan, and selected primarily among the following areas on the basis of 
Page  8
suitable policies, criteria and procedures and the overall progress on the Sector 
Measures:
1.
Improvement of the Efficiency of Regional Hospitals: through the implementation 
of a program, consisting, in particular, of the renovation of hospital buildings, the 
upgrading of equipment, and the provision of training to managers and technical 
assistance, intended to strengthen the internal organization of hospitals, the 
development and effectively use of management tools, quality assurance, and the 
adoption of  performance-based incentives systems.
2.
Strengthening of the National Medical Emergency Services: through: (i) the 
carrying out of an economic study on the medical emergency services designed to 
thoroughly assess the existing situation in terms of physical infrastructure, 
equipment, personnel and organizational arrangements, and recurrent costs 
implications; and (ii) the formulation, on the basis of the said study, of a strategy 
intended to strengthen the emergency services and to identify investments, including 
renovation and rehabilitation works, equipment and training, proposed to be financed 
under this Part A.2.
3.
Development and Implementation of a National Health Information System: through 
the provision of technical assistance, training, workshops, and equipment to develop 
gradually a program aimed at establishing an information system to provide the 
Borrower with timely and relevant epidemiological data and to set up a management 
information system to improve the health system, including: (i) the evaluation and 
monitoring at the national, regional and local levels, of the health care system’s 
performance on health status, resource availability and use, validity of the processes 
to address individual and collective health problems, and results in terms of 
activity, services and health impact; and (ii) the development of indicators to 
evaluate the health care system at the microeconomic and macroeconomic level, with 
special emphasis on information on costs and results of health care services.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening in Health Policy and Planning
Carrying out of an institutional program aimed at strengthening the planning, 
policy analysis, and financial management capabilities of the MOPH, comprising the 
establishment of national health accounts, the provision of training in policy 
analysis and formulation, study tours for selected senior staff to undertake a 
comparative review of approaches to health reforms and consensus-building seminars, 
and the improvement of the MOPH’s reporting and financial management systems.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
      Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in French Francs)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning on October 15, 2003
through April 15, 2015
12,400,000
Page  9
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in French Francs to be repaid, 
except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(i) Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent; and (ii) works estimated to 
cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $36,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  10
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$350,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance for: (i) the development and implementation of 
sector reforms under Part A of the Project; and (ii) the strengthening of the planning 
capacity of the MOPH under Part C of the Project, which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance for: (i) the development and implementation of 
sector reforms under Part A of the Project; and (ii) the strengthening of the planning 
capacity of the MOPH under Part C of the Project, which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance for: (i) the development and implementation of 
sector reforms under Part A of the Project; and (ii) the strengthening of the MOPH 
under Part C of the Project, and which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
Page  11
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Section A:
Project Oversight, Coordination and Implementation: Institutional 
Arrangements
1.
The Oversight Committee, headed by the Minister of Public Health and composed of 
the Secretary General, the Director General for Health, Directors from all Project 
concerned units within the MOPH, and a representative of each of the Borrower’s 
Ministries of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment, Economic Development 
and Finance, shall be assigned responsibility for ensuring complementarity and 
coherence of all Project activities with the strategic directions of the Borrower’s 
Ninth Development Plan, and their efficient implementation.  For this purpose, the 
said Committee will meet on a periodic basis, but not less than three (3) times each 
Fiscal Year.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall assign overall Project coordination to DEP, which 
shall be operating with sufficient financial, physical and human resources.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraph (a), 
DEP shall have additional specific responsibility for monitoring of financial and 
physical progress under the Project, progress evaluation on the achievement of the 
Sector Measures, coordination of disbursements and procurement activities, and 
preparation of the semi-annual progress, implementation and mid-term review reports 
referred to in Sections C and D of this Schedule.
3.
For purposes of ensuring the timely and effective implementation of the Project, 
the Borrower shall maintain the Directorate in Charge of Hospitals (Direction de la 
Tutelle des Hôpitaux) and the Units (Unités de Gestion par Objectif) for the National 
Medical Emergency Services and the National Health Information System under, 
respectively, Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project, assuring that their mandate is clearly 
focused and that they are strengthened and provided with supplemental resources and 
services of additional staff as required to carry out their responsibilities under the 
Project.
Page  12
Section B:
Approval of Investment Activities under Part B of the Project
(a)
The Borrower, through DEP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i) not 
later than April 30 in each Fiscal Year, for its review and comments, the Borrower’s 
proposed health sector investment program for the following Fiscal Year, along with 
the financing plan therefor; and (ii) not later than May 31 in each Fiscal Year, for 
its review and approval: (A) a detailed description of the activities identified 
thereunder and proposed to be financed under Part B of the Project, including a 
technical and economic evaluation of the activities prepared in accordance with 
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and, where required, an environmental 
assessment report and/or mitigation plans approved by the ANPE and satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (B) a description of the overall progress made by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Sector Measures during the current Fiscal Year.
(b)
If the Bank shall have reasonably considered as unsatisfactory the 
overall progress made by the Borrower in carrying out the Sector Measures during any 
Fiscal Year, the Bank may withhold further approval of commitments under the Project 
or any part thereof for the following Fiscal Year.  Such withholding may continue 
until the Borrower shall have taken, or shall have caused to be taken, remedial 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary to achieve the objectives of 
the Project and ensure the successful achievement of the Sector Measures.
(c)
Thereafter, the Borrower shall finalize the proposals for activities to 
be financed under the Project taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon, 
and shall take all measures necessary to ensure their efficient implementation.
Section C:
Project Monitoring
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through DEP, shall:
(a)
not later than May 31 and November 30 in each Fiscal Year, commencing on 
November 30, 1998 and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
its review a progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the Performance Indicators and the 
parameters set forth by the Sector Measures: (i) the progress achieved by the Borrower 
in the implementation of the Project during the preceding six (6) month period, 
including the status of implementation; (ii) the financial situation of the Project; 
(iii) the work and procurement plan and financial estimates for the following twelve 
(12) month period; and (iv) the update of the Performance Indicators; and
(b)
not later than November 30, 1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review an implementation report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the Performance Indicators and the 
parameters set forth by the Sector Measures, the implementation status of the Project 
achieved since Project start-up.
Section D:
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through DEP, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the Sector Measures and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about November 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Sector 
Measures during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Sector Measures and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Page  13
Borrower and the Bank shall establish, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the Sector Measures and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to FRF18,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
FRF12,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed FRF90,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  14
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
\0cremaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
