                                                                       78522
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                JOINT MEETING

                    A joint meeting of the Executive Directors of . the

           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and

           the International Development Association was convened at

           10:00 o'clock, a.m. in the Board Room, 1818 H Street, N.W.

           Mr. Robert S. McNamara, President, presiding as Chairman.
STRICTLY    ONFIDENTIAL




                               page


            •                  I

            •             1-   I




           II
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL        26




                 --
                 --

                  •     - -
                 --
                 -- -
                      •   -
                    •
                 --·
                         •
                             -
                              -
                                                                           2
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL




                     We will turn now to Item No. 3 on the agenda, a

           proposed loan to the Ivory Coast in the amount of $11 million

           for an educational project.   Here I will ask Mr. Bazin
                                                  /.
           of the West African Department to tr~re to the table and

           introduce it to you.

                     Good morning,sir,

                     MR. BAZIN:   Good morning.

                     Mr. Chairman, Members of the Board:

                     Following a road project in 1968 and an oil palm

           and coconut development project in 1969, this education

           project would be the third Bank operation in the Ivory Coast.

           The project has two noteworthy features.    For the first

           time the Bank would be directly involved in the field of

           primary education and also, for the first time, the Bank would

           participate in the financing of instructional television.

                     The Ivory Coast provides particularly justified

           grounds for these innovations.   The reason is that the
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                  28




           country has achieved remarkable economic performance since

           independence in 1960.   The development of human resources,

           however, has not followed the same pace. In fact, economic

           growth has been at an annual average rate of 8 percent,

           exports have more than doubled, and GDP per capita reached
           $280 in 1968.

                     However, immigrants so far have provided a large

           part of the skilled labor.     More than 5,000 expatriates

           hold positions in the public or semi-public sectors alone,

           and in the private sector about 90 percent of the professionals

           and 70 percent of the technicians are also expatriates.

                     No doubt the number of qualified Ivorians at all leve s

           have increased in the last few years, but the demand for them

           has increased even more.     This trend is likely to continue

           during the 1971-65 period, when total investment is expected

           to be almost 50 percent higher than the average over the
           last few years.

                     The shortage of skilled nationals has therefore

           ecome a critical problem for the country and unfortunately

           he present educational system has not proven able to remedy
           his situation.

                     Primary education has continued to prepare primary
                                                                          29
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL




           school leavers exclusively for secondary school entrance

           and for white collar jobs. In so doing it has failed to respon

           to the real needs of the economy.

                     It has even greatly contributed to unemployment

           or underemployment and by alienating young people from their

           local culture and environment, it has accelerated urbanization

           particularly in the capital Abidjan:   during the last three

           years, about 135,000 persons have increased the number

           of unemployed in urban areas.   The most important

           component of these persons consists of primary school leavers.

           Each year 45,000 you,people leave primary school without

           any desire to find employment in their own village.     Many

           of them go to the town where their hopes of finding jobs

           and participating in their country's economic achievements

           are very often disappointed.

                     The Government is aware of these shortcomings and

           has drawn up a long-term educational program based on a new

           policy.   The main objectives of this policy are to improve

           the efficiency of the system and to expand the output

           of technical, vocational, agricultural education; and at the

           secondary and post-secondary levels.

                     As regards primary education, the program provides

           for the introduction of television which will be associated
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                       30




           with new teaching techniques and curriculum reform.       It is

           expected that this new important step should succeed in

           providing the country and its economy with human resources

           more adapted to present and future needs.       The lessons which

           will emerge from this first national ITV program should be

           of great importance to the Bank and to other developing

           countries.    This is the main reason why the Bank felt justifie

           in participating in this first international effort.

                        I would like to point out thattn order not to

           delay the implementation of this project any further,

           it was decided in agreement with the Government to make the

           signing of the management consultants' contract a condition

           of effectiveness instead of a condition of signing of the

           proposed loan.     The legal documents have been amended accord-

           ingly.

                        Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                        MR. McNAMARA:   Thank you, sir.

                        Gentlemen, may I have your comments or

           questions?

                        Mr. Plescoff and then Mr. Lynch.

                        MR. PLESCOFF: Mr. Chairman, I thank the staff

           for the very interesting expose which has been made, and I
STRICTLY    ONFIDENTIAL                                                   31




           think this is a very interesting case, but first, Ivory Coast

           is the country which is growing the fastest in West Africa

           and has a record of achievement in the economic field,

           and I must say that I should have known, but I was amazed to

           read in the report that only 9 percent of the population

           is literate.   It is really surprising that a country with

           only 9 percent of the population literate, could achieve what

           they have achieved up to now, and I feel sure that the need

           for education is really the first need in a country which

           has succeeded in the economy and even in the industrial

           field, not only in agriculture.   I think this is a very importa t

           characteristic of the presentation which has been made.

                      I support this loan not only because I represent

           France which is helping the Ivory Coast in this, but not

           enough as we can see, because the literacy is not sufficient,

           but also because I was a teacher and I have been a student

           in a training college, and I was glad to see that the training

           college is an important part of the program because this is

           where we can help at the lowest cost the Ivory Coast to produce

           teachers who would be able to increase the education in the

           country.

                      The modern feature of TV is also a very interesting
                                                                         32
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           one.   I understand it's one of the first experiments in that

           field, and it would be very interesting to follow the

           technical difficulties and the results and best return we can

           have in education through TV because it avoids having a

           great number of teachers.

                     I have just one technical question in that field.

           I'd like to know if the staff has studied if it is only by

           TV emission that this would be done or if in the future

           there would not be some kind of cassette which could be sent

           to the villages to be used instead of emission.      I wonder

           if that step has also been studied.

                     Anyway, I'm glad of this loan.      I support it.

                     I also have one question. It's that Ivory Coast is

           only receiving a Bank loan for education, and there's no

           blend contract with IDA.     I would like to have a comparison

           of the situation of income per head in the Ivory Coast and in

           other countries which have received blend contracts with IDA,

           to know if we're not unfair to the Ivory Coast, which has such

           big important expenditures to make, by giving only a high-cost

           Bank loan for education.

                     Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                     MR. McNAMARA:     Thank you.   Let's take them one at

           a time, the two questions.
                                                                         33
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL


                    First, with respect to the possible use of film

           ersus live TV, Mr. Bazin, would you like to answer that or

           o you wish

                    MR. BAZIN:   Mr. Lethem will answer that.

                    MR. McNAMARA: Mr. Lethem will comment on that.

                    MR. LETHEM: This is indeed a possibility to use

           alternative ways to reach pupils in schools than by television.

           By "cassette" I would assume that you mean especially

           video tapes which can be projected in the classroom.     In

           the case of the Ivory Coast, it is unlikely that this system

           will be used because the Government has a program to cover

           through the national television system almost the whole of the

           country's area, and therefore from a technical point of view,

           the areas where electiricty is not available are being

           covered by battery-operated television receivers.

                     As far as we know, the technical studies have not

           demonstrated the need to use video tape recorders.     The out-

           lying areas which would have necessitated it might also have

           been difficult to reach in terms of transportation of the

           tapes, and the solution of beaming the programs appears more

           economical.

                     MR. McNAMARA: And now the second question on the

           allocation of IDA funds, I think perhaps we can best answer th t,
                                                                          34
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL



         r. Plescoff, by sending you a technical note on the subject,

         end it to all the members of the Board, showing the distribu-

         ion of IDA.   The fact is we lack adequate IDA funds to meet

                  of all countries that might qualify on a basis

         f income per capita for IDA.   In the case of the Ivory Coast,

         f course, the debt service charges are not now high.    They are

        not nearly as high as debt service charges in other countries

        with comparable per capita income.   Quite frankly, that is

        the reason why other countries and not Ivory coast are

        receiving either IDA credits or blends of credits and loans.

        But I'll be very happy to expand on that answer with a technica

        note to the members of the Board.    I'll ask Mr.Cope to follow

        that and take care of it.

                  Mr. Lynch.

                  MR. LYNCH: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                  I think this is an extremely carefully thought out

        intricate and balanced project, and if I may say so, strikingly

        presented this morning.

                  It comprehends major and fundamental reforms at

        primary and secondary and tertiary levels, all three.

                  I too agree very much with its vocational bias,

        particularly at the primary level.    I believe that every

        educational system must have its roots in national needs and
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                      35




           that while there are of course higher aims of education

                                                                  ! I . think
           for the individual, for development of the individual, .

           that these are more and not less likely to be achieved in the

           longer term if the elementary requirement of a root in national

           need is there at the beginning.

                       I therefore have no quarrel with the ultimate

           objectives of this project and very little with its structure.

           I do see, however, in the report that it has been a long time

           evolving.   There was an IBRD-UNESCO-FAO mission in January

           1967, a Bank-UNESCO mission in May 1968, and still even after

           that, the IBRD appraisal mission in the spring of last year

           found it necessary to make apparently quite big modifications

           in the proposals as they had evolved that far.

                       This is rather long gestation for the project, and

           even though obviously a very profound change implied by this

           proposal will take a long time to work out, I think that

           this is really a little too long and is illustrative of the

           need which we have seen recently in the Jackson report

           of a more integrated and faster moving UN development system

            hich comprehends the maximum IBRD involvement at the earliest

           stages.

                       There is, though, one feature of the project which
                                                                     36
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL


           has been welcomed by Mr. Plescoff as it has eventually been

           brought forward on which I must confess to some reservation.

           I must admit at the beginning to a considerable distrust of

           television as a means of instruction. I think that by its very

           nature the medium tends to be ephemeral and impressionistic

           and if, as Mr. Plescoff hopes, it is eventually to displace

           teachers, then I think that one comes up at that stage against

           a further grave disadvantage in the lack of a stimulus of

           individual personality on the student, which I think is

           terribly important, even where the main aim of the primary stag

           anyway is vocational.

                     The system has been operating, I see in the report,

           in Niger for three years. I think probably this is the first

           experiment of the kind in a less developed country, and I think

           it is implicit in the report that it hasn't been in operation

           long enough there for firm conclusions to be drawn as to the

           value of this form of instruction in the context of a less

           developed country, but it may be that in more advanced

           countries there has been in operation for a sufficiently long

            ime a system of television instruction which would enable

            s to arrive at some conclusions as to its value or otherwise.

                     Furthermore, I wonder in the context of   ~er   how muc

            f the benefit has been due to television as such and how much
                                                                            37
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL



             it is due to parallel reforms of curricula and new teaching

             methods, which I am glad to hear are to accompany the

             introduction of television in the Ivory Coast.

                         I think I would have been rather happier if the

             !TV component of this project had not been so central to it

             but had rather, as in Niger I believe, been more in the nature

             of an experiment.

                         Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                         MR. McNAMARA: Thank you, Mr. Lynch.

                         Let me ask Mr.Ballantine to comment initially on

             this and he might ask some members of his staff to expand

             on his comments, and I may add some afterwards.

                         Go right ahead.

                         MR. BALLANTINE:   Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, on

             the first point I noted that Mr. Lynch has raised the lack of

             stimulus in the educational TV system.     I take it your

             feeling is that there's a rather passive role played by the

             students.    I might say that one of the bits of experience that

             we have observed which was also raised by Mr. Lynch is

             out here at Hagerstown, Maryland, where a large number of our

             staff have visited.    I have been there myself and sat in a

             classroom while this process is going on.     It is not passive.

             The program is arranged so that at intervals the studio
                              I




        1

        I.
                                                                       38
STRICTLY    ONFIDENTIAL


           eacher will pause and the classroom teacher will then take
                                               ~
           ver and the studio teacher will haveposed a question and the
                                               I
           tudents will he asked to discuss it for a period of five minute

           r so, and there was certainly nothing passive in the way that

           hose students responded.

                    I might add also that sitting in the back of the room

           t was clear that the demonstration--this was in sixth grade

           cience -- that was conducted was obviously much more visible

           o all the members of the class than it would have been had it

           een conducted in live form at the front of the classroom.

                    On the question of the experience that we have had

                    observe on this, I would like to cite four cases from

           mong very many.   The first is actually 23 cases, which were

                   in a study by the International Institute of Educationa

           lanning in Paris and published in three volumes called "New

                   Message to Educators."   These 23 cases were both in

           eveloped and developing countries, and they illustrated

                  and failure.   I regard it as one of the most valuable

                  or volumes to introduce oneto the subject of educational

               I'd be very happy if members of the Board wished, to try to

                  to have copies of that distributed to everyone because

            think it's for all of us a good start on our own education in

            is field.
                                                                                                                 39
STRICTLY    ONFIDENTIAL



                                       Going back to the Hagerstown case, this is perhaps

           one of the cases where there is really hard evaluative

           evidence.                    Hagerstown in most subject areas, until the beginnin

           of this experiment, was a mediocre educational syst,m.p,sed

           o~ ,,   tpe results of tests of their students as compared with test

           i~       :<;>n a national basis.                 It stood either at about            th~


           m~ddle           percentile or in a few cases, a little                       belo~'t.,


                                       After the experiment had about five or six                    ye.~rs,          its

           positJon had risen up, I believe, to the top quartil, ,in all

           of tbe  .~
                ·!:.- ';
                         subject areas, and it was quite clear that with the same

           inputs except for the adoption of TV, they would                                  nQ~ ~~~e

           achieved these results.                         This project (}·in its prepara~io~ by

           thi$ International Consortium included an evaluation

           o f pt:~_;ee
              1                        existing systems:         that _
                                                                      in Niger, that in         Amer~can

           s~oa,                           d or, which has more recently 9ot
                            and in El Salva.                                                           ~nderway
                                                                                                        ,1 , •




           anq the preparation of the project                             ~; into
                                                                               .      . account the
           exp,rience which on the whole has been successful in all three



                                        We feel that this is perhaps tHe b•st               prepar•~

           fea~il:?.l-Ji~y
              ,L.) '"'- ,..
                        h   l.   · -
                                          study underlying this project that «i:fl

           an~~ere,                     including those done by          ~or elec~onics              firms and
           the like. I' d say it is considerably better than most ~~ those.

                                        Pin~~utt·, l·~ 'w~u:id   poftit 'tb :t he   ~Jxpeffence that is tak · g
                                                                           40
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL



                 England at the present time, where the London County

                 joining with some of the neighboring counties,

         iddlesex, Essex, Surrey and Kent ~r pat, at least of those

         ounties, after a two-year experimental effort, has combined

        'nto the Inter-London Education Authority, and they are

        'ntending both at the primary and secondary levels to establish

         n extensive program of TV instruction in all schools.

         his is on a voluntary basis, but it is expected that this

        system will cover over two million students, and we believe

         hat in the face of that experiment we have further evidence

         hat the process is sound.

                  MR. McNAMARA:     Thank you, Duncan.   I think you would

         gree,Duncan, that nonetheless, we still    cons~der   this an

         xperimental program.

                  MR. BALLANTINE:     We do.

                  MR. McNAMARA:     And Mr. Lynch, I am sure you noticed

         n the Appraisal Report, therefore, quite a wide range of

         otential development of this between now and 1980, a high figu e

         hat is four or five times the level of the low objective,

         nd the exact point in the range at which the system will

         ventually move toward will depend upon the success of the

        'nitial experiment.     That's one of the reasons why the project

         as taken as long as it has to prepare.     Initially, the costs
                                                                          41

STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           were far in excess of potential benefits and it is only after

           it has been worked and re-worked that we think we have a progr

           that is satisfactory in terms of both quality and cost.

                     I think it is a very, very worthwhile experiment,

           and absolutely fascinating one.   I do very much share

           your own skepticism about mechanical aids substituting for

           quality of teaching. ABout once a month a visitor comes to my

           office to try to convince me we should finance a satellite

           communication system or nationwide TV system or something of

           that kind, and the point that Mr. Plescoff raised is a pertinen

           one.   I always ask him, well, what are they going to put into

           this satellite.   The satellite or TV is nothing more

           than a wire or a substitute for a wire, and the important

           question is what goes in one end and what comes out the other,

           and is what comes out properly adjusted to the requirement

           of the students, and here there has been a tremendous attention

           given to exactly that input and output.   Frankly, the TV

           mechanism which attracts the attention and interest of most

           readers is really a relatively insignificant part   ~f   it.

           It is the effort to address thefpint that shocked Mr. Plescoff

            r surprised him, which surprised me equally, 9 percent

           literacy in that nation.   That's the basic problem and the

            overnment is addressing it and using this as a tool to move
                                                                              42
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           that literacy rate up, and it's the most efficient one

           they feel available to them.

                       I am sure this Board will be as interested as I

           am going to be over the years ahead, to see how this

           progresses, and it will be a year or two or three before we ar

           prepared to report to you, but we will do so.

                       Mr. Lynch.

                       MR. LYNCH: I am deeply grateful for the explanation,

           Mr. Chairman, and I'm glad to hear even yourself say that it

           is essential for this to be treated as an aid.       I still have s me

           residual skepticism, perhaps from a Marshall McLuhan type

           of feeling that the medium tends to be the message.

                       (Laughter)

                       MR. McNAMARA:     Well, if it does, it fails certainly

           in this case.

                       MR. LYNCH: Yes.     I'll watch it with interest, Mr.

           Chairman.

                       MR. McNAMARA:     Dr. Chen.

                       DR. CHEN:    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                       I would like to give my warm support to this project

           Like Mr. Plescoff, I was really shocked by this low literacy

           rate of approximately 9 percent and correspondingly only
                                                                     43
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL



         20 percent of the technical supervisory and professional worker

         are Ivorians, which means a very large percentage of   ~xpatriate   .

         For all these reasons, I believe this is certainly a very

         sound project and will fulfill the need of the country.

                   On~be positive side, I must say that the Government

         of Ivory Coast has done very well in the last decade since

         its independence in 1960, resulting in the average growth

         rate of about 7 percent over a three-year period between

         1966 and 1968.

                   Speaking of their foreign exchange reserves, it

         has reversed from the past trend of deficit into $36~1/2

          illion in 1968.   In fact, stated in your report, Mr. Chairman,

          aragraph 10, this $36-1/2 million in reserves represents

          ractically three months' imports.   It means that the Ivory

          oast now owns over half of the net foreign assets of the

          even-member West African Monetary Union.

                   All in all, I must say that the economic performance

          f Ivory Coast is excellent, although there are other short-



                   I welcome especially the innovation of this TV

          ducational program, as so well told by Mr. Ballantine.     The

          uccess of the TV education program or education facilities

          re beyond doubt, in other words, and I believe that in course
STRICTLY    ONFIDENTIAL                                                  44




            f time, the television program will greatly contribute to

           the solution of skilled manpower shorta9es in the Ivory

           Coast.
                     Finally I note with gratification that the Govern-

           ment of Ivory Coast is increasing its expenditure on

           education on the recurrent items, and I also, Mr. Chairman,

           welcome the very generous terms, 30 years' amortization with

           ten years' grace, although I too am inclined to agree with Mr.

           Plescoff, I wish it could have been a sort of blend of

           loan and IDA credit.   There must be good reason to the

           contrary, as we may see in your paper later.

                     Finally, I have one question to ask, which has alread

           been explained by you in part. I notice in your report,

           paragraph 3, negotiations were held here at the end of

           September through October 7.   It is almost six months since

           then, and now it has come · to the Board. I would like to know th

           reason which accounts for this long delay, other than that we

           had to go over these cost figures.   My question leads to a

           rather specific problem, whether these problems could be

           negotiated out during the neqotiations or do we have to wait

           as · long as six months before it comes to the Board?
                     MR. McNAMARA:   MR. Lethem, would you comment on that,

           please?
                                                                                             45 .
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                      MR. LETHEM:   We felt during negotiations and

           before presenting the ioan for signing, that there would be

           a signed contract between the Government and the architect-

           consultants who are in charge of implementation of the whole

           program. We had been given to understand                du~nq        negotiations

           that such contract would take a· little time'to, finalize.

           In fact, it did take more than expected.

                        MR. McNAMARA:   Mr. Hanemann.

                        MR. HANEMANN:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                        I would like to make some comments and I have some

           questions.     It is stated here, and we have heard it also

           repeated by the staff that this is the first direct involve-

           ment in the field of primary education through this ITV

           element.     Of courset Mr. Chairman, one could look at the

           matter, at this ITV element, as a kind of replacement ~f

           teacher training in wbioh the Bank Group has already been

           involved on various occasions.      Practically the TV is to some

           extent replacing some teacher training, but if we look at

           it ; as was said, as a first involvement, direct                     invol~e~ent

            ib the field of primary education, and not as a kind of

            replacement of teacher training, the question comes up of

            c~';lr~~ to what extent the World Bank Group could ·~~c~nto

            t~i~h~ ield   of giving assistance to primary educatf~~·
                                                                           ..    .   •   I




                                                  ~ ; <". • • :_
                                                                                  46
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                      We   ha~   already taken over responsibilities in the

           field of industrial training, vocational training, agricultural

           training, secondary training, teacher training, and I wonder
           whether the management has already some concept to what

           extent it could in addition to this educational training

           enter into an involvement in the primary education, because

           resources are limited for financing primary education or

           giving assistance to primary education through World Bank loans ,

           which is very expensive financing for the countries concerned.

           Our IDA resources are limited, so we have to be selective

           to some extent.       We cannot do everything.

                        I wonder to what extent the management intends

           to go to become involved, directly involved in primary

           edUcation, because I think the needs in this field are' enormous

           arldc the resources are of course limited, so this woiilli!lbe

           a g~h~tal question whether it's already possible         t6    qf~! some

           i~§~§~~~pn   whether the World Bank Group really      w'gt~~58e be
           i ~~6fK~d with larger amounts in primary education. :·~n ! hpether

           wega~~ l~ concentrate our efforts in other fields          t
                                                                    9:.   ~~:ij~ational

                         vocational training, agricultural     tra~~f ~g ~ ~ nd


           JJ\~~~:~:~ of this kind.
                                                                  t. .;.P
                        The second question, Mr. Chairman, refers .     or
                                                                           the

           p~~f~~~~tion of the appraisal, paragraph 3.12, a 7tff~~pal
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                 47



           ssistance element is presented.    Here the World Bank is

           repared to finance technical assistance in order to avoid

            survey of method to improve utilization of existing secondary

                   including setting up model timetables, or planning

           tudies of vocational education, or explaining the    ~upervieion


           f teachers of science, and so on, and I wonder to what extent

           he efforts in this field are a matter of World Bank financing

             ~~ther this also is not more a matter for UNESCO.       It

             probably difficult to draw a borderline between the activiti s

             the two institutions in this field, but I would be happy

             I could hear a little bit about the way in which this

           echnical assistance to elaborate the setting up of model

            imetables and curricula--how   cooperation~d   coordination with

            ESCO has worked out, and what are the intentions of the Bank

           Group to enter these fields or to leave this matter to UNESCO.

                    The third question, Mr.Chairman, refers to the

           reception network which has finally to be established in order

           to make this production center useable.   I read in paragraph

           3.16 of the Appraisal that the Government of Ivory Coast

           has agreed that it will execute by 1980 a program to provide

           at least 2,860 classrooms with ITV.   Now, when one looks at the

           diagram in   Annex 13, and you touched upon this already, Mr.

           Chairman, I believe that the establishment of TV's in classroom
                                                                                        48
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           up to 1980, with 2,860 classrooms to be provided with TV's

           that is a relatively small part of what is mentioned here

           as the maximum or the Government request.              It seems

           to indicate that what the Government requested, the Ivory

           Coast Government, was interested in having all this reception

           network implemented, financed by the Bank, but the Bank felt

           that this was not a matter for the Bank to do; it was a matter

           for the Government.              But even in the course of ten years'

           time, until 1980, there seems now to be rather broad gap betwe

           that which is intended to be done or agreed to be done by

           the Ivory Coast Government and what the Ivory Coast Government

           had in mind when it made a request.              At least, it seems

           as       though~       there was a question raised whether by

           1980, there couldn't already be installed TV's in 50,000

           classrooms, so I would be happy if I could get some informatio

           about the way in which this matter had been discussed with the

           I!~f.~            Coast Government, and what has been the   reason , ~s~

           aq;~•ing
            ". :'" - .
                '   ·~--·-
                               on a provision of 2,860 classrooms whereas i:t .seems

           tq~~rtg~ally               the request had been made to provide 50,000

           classrooms until 1980, with TV reception network.                 In fact,

           if one looks at the minimum borderline under IBRD analysis

           in the diagram in Annex 13, it seems that much more could be
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                       49




           done, or could~ve been done.

                       It might well be that due to the fact that it is

           to some extent still an experiment, one was reluctant

           to go beyond this limit of 2,860 classrooms, but on the other

           hand, we heard from the staff that there are some positive

           experiences made in this field, so that it seems a rather long

           time which is lost until 1980, with only 2,860 classrooms

           provided with television, whereas 50,000 would be needed,

           perhaps.

                       This is what is represented under the words "governme t

           request."
                                                                                  ,/
                        Now, Mr.C~airman, these are some of my questions but

           in principle, I fully agree with the project and support it.

                        MR. McNAMARA: Thank you, sir.

                        Duncan, would you comment on the first question

           to what extent will we become involved in financing primary

           education?

                        MR. BALLANTINE:   Yes, if I may go back and review

            ery briefly the Bank's history of the Bank policy on education

            hen I believe it was in 1963 the Chairman first brought the

            olicy to the Board, it stated we would support projects in

            eneral secondary education, and in technical education

            nd vocational training at various levels, and that we would
                l.
                                                                        so
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                 in other fields for the time being only in exceptional



                   We have therefore stayed away from direct involvement

            primary education.   Wemd various good reasons for this.

           irst of all, we felt at that time that there was an excessive

           oncentration on primary education, largely in response to

           ocial and political pressures, at the expense of some of the

               productive types of education, which we had been financing

               large extent. Therefore, we should not encourage

              borrowers to go further in this direction.

                    Secondly, we felt that the construction of one- or

                   schoolhouses all over a country probably did not lend i -

           elf easily to the Bank's procedures on supervision, contracting,

           nd so forth.

                    The most important reason was that we were fairly

           ~ppy about the state of primary education and its relevance

           o the needs of the students, most of whom would never get

           eyond primary education.

                    Several years ago, President Nyerere produced a

           aper called "Education for Self-reliance," in which he pointed

           o the fact that primary education is essentially designed to

           repare you for secondary education, and secondary education

           s essentially designed to prepare you for the university, and
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                  51




           that he felt a system ought to be at each level self-contained

           and meaningful in itself and related to the lives of the

           students who would go out from there.

                      Now, there has been a broad and significant shift

           in the philosophy of educational development, more or less

           at this particular point in time.       The decade of the sixties

           was a time of expansion in numbers. often at increasing expens

           and pressure on budgets, at higher costs with lower quality,

           with greater dependence on foreign teachers, with very little

           attention to the quality of aspects and by quality I mean

           not only the quality of learning but also the relevance and

           usefulness to   a developing country.

                      There is at present in the thinking of all of us

           in this field, a recognition tha,probably this phase of
                                               I
           educational development is coming to an end.       There will be

           more quantitative expansion, but the dominant emphasis,

           as the Chairman has indicated in some of his speeches, will be

           in the future on quality, on relevance, on economy and

           efficiency.

                      Now, coming back to the question of policy, we

           r~gara   this as an exceptional case and the policy that I am

           trying to apply under the management's direction is that we
                                                                                         52
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           would engage in financing a primary education in experimental

           projects which promise greater efficiency, economy or

           r elevance.           We believe that this one does.      There will be
           o thers coming to the Board, increasing I think in numbers,

           but not in a great rush all at once, but I would say that in th

           whole area of education, two areas are emerging of increasing

           tdgnificance and let me say first I think we 'Me paid good

           attention within the area of formal education.                I think

           we have made constructive loans which have helped to reform

           and improve systems as well as to · expand quantity, but I

           fel that primary education is drastically in need of change

           tQ
            I·
                 m,~)t,e
                     .,'
                  ','!. ~'
                             it more :zelevant·, as President Nyerere has pointed

           out, and that           ~here   were perhaps increasing technical assistanc

           which anticipates your second question, Mr .Hanemann, w.o lll.d it b

           a proper role for the Bank .            The - second ~ a~a,althouqh   it is

           beyond this question, but I'll mention, is the area of non-

           ~rmal             education.    If you look at a developed country with a

           school leaving age of 15, the percenta9e of children aged 6 to

           1 5 in school runs 90 percent or more.               ~y   a very crude

           c't$?}H•-
                   " ion, I would estimate that in            ~ica,     the percentage
           of children 6 to 15 who are in school is not more than 35

           percent and perhaps substantially below that.                 At every   level• ~


           therefore, the system is inadequate to meet the needs.
                                                                             53

STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL




                        If I may take just one more moment to illustrate my

           point, in East Arrica the entering labor force in 1966

           consisting of 500,000 people, had the following educational

           inventory:     43 percent had had no education at all; an

           additional 73 percent had had less than four years of

           education; 76 percent, in other words, had had no or negligible

           education.     This is a labor force that will   continue down

           to the·year'2000 and the inventory that the East African countr·es

           are stuck with as far as that year's entry is concerned.         It ta es

           only simple arithmetic projecting the growth of GNP and the

           groth of education expenditure to demonstrate that solving

           this problem through conventional means is impossible from the

           point of view of resources.       I think therefore that one of th

           major tasks we have in the future will be to explore and find

           ways to solve this problem of human resource development

           in addition to the development of formal education systems

           and I might say that despite some few isolated successful

           experiments, this is a great terra incognita.      None of us

           know very much but I would feel that it is our job as the

           leading development finance agency in the world to tackle this

           problem anathough we may make many mistakes, my own feeling

           is the worst mistake we could make is to do nothing.
                                                                         54
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                       MR. McNAMARA: Thank you, Duncan.    Let me just add

             point to those he has made, what he has said -- if you

             imagine this situation, fifty      ~ears   from now, two-thirds of

             labor force in certain age groups, such as 50- to 60-year-

             males in many of the Asian and most of the African

              some of the Latin American countries, two-thirds of the

                         will never have attended school, fifty years from n      I



           nd at varying degrees, lesser percentages of those

           ounger individuals fifty years from now, and this is a problem

           e addressed, and there isn't any answer to it that we

           now of, but it is one we will pay increasing attention to.

                       And now, Duncan, can you move to the second question,

           he question of technical assistance, why wouldn't it have

           een better to finance the technical assistance referred to in t e

           ppraisal Report, by UNESCO?

                       MR. BALLANTINE:   I   think the answer is that

           NESCO is an implementing agency, net a financial agency.

           ts resources are very limited, and it depends, I think, for

           bout half of its technical assistance activities on UNDP

           inancing.     W1have in the past tended to move alongside other

           gencies' functions, bilateral in some cases, multilateral

                       and link our capital financing with their technical

           ssistance.     With our expanded program, however, we are finding
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                            55



           we are outrunning the availability of that other financing.

           We intend wherever possible to join forces with other agencies,

           but we feel that form the point of view of timing and volume

           of available funds, we will have to go more deeply into the

           financing, at least of technical assistance.

                        I might say that in our lending portfolio thus

           far, we have spent about 67 percent or 70 percent, rather, on

           construction, about 27 percent on equipment, and less than

           3 percent on technical assistance.      I think in view of the

           imperatives of the new decade that I was speaking of, we

           should expect to finance a much larger percentage in our

           lending of technical assistance than 3 percent, although I

           repeat we will ally with other agencies wherever that appears

           feasible.

                        MR. McNAMARA: Thank you.

                        Perhaps Mr. Lethem would comment, then, on the

           third of Mr. Hanemann's questions, the objective for the

           number of classrooms to be equipped with TV instructional

           capability ten years from now.

                       MR. LETHEM:   The Government request to the Bank was

           part of the comprehensive financing plan for the ITV education

           scheme.     T~e Bank was asked to finance the construction of

           a production center, and it is our analysis which suggested

           the addition of some financing for a maintenance center and
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                56



           management evaluation services. The ·objectives of the

           Government               vere_indeed · ~achieve   by about 1980, a coverage of

           aBout          16,00P~ssrooms.           In fact, this is the most innovative

           part of the program.               ~ There   have been several experiments

           on a relatively small scale in educational television and

           the results from a pedagogical point of view were
            ~   ;{ • ,    .~   I
                                                                                  psui[L .~~y
                                                                                         I ('




           v~fl          g¥tfsfactory.

            n a r 1                What is more uncertain in terms of the      'fB~ripent

           here,          i~       how satisfactory the coverage of the country will be

           nationwide.                You have a problem of setting up a very good

           administrative system, maintenance system, because you have

           tp emsire that the programs are received on time, that is

           that the sets are functioning when                   needed~   also that the

           didactic materials are brought to the teachers and finally,

           that feedback comes from the classroom to the production cente

           in order to improve the programs.

                                    In view of that experimental character, we discussed

           with          t~        Ivory Coast Government eh possibility of a .variable

           pace in                   classroom coverage, this    VBrlab1:~vpace   to be

           dependent upon the results of the continuing pedagogical

           and technical evaluation of the systems                    performance.

           However. it. was also necessary to provide for minimum coverage

           which would be satisfactory to evaluate the performance of the
                                                                                                     57
STRICTLY    ONFIDENTIAL



             tystem, its objectives, and also to ensure that minimum return

             would be available for the capital invested and the recurrent

             costs.             This is the reason why you find that only about

             2,860 classrooms equipped with lTV are estimated as the

             minimum which the Bank is asking the Government to reach.

             Of course we expect that the minimum will be more than

             reached by 1980 and it is very likely that the coverage will

             be somewhere between the minimum and a maximum number,

             very likely closer to the maximum.

                                     MR. McNAMARA: T~ank you.

                                     Mr. Tazi.

                                     MR. TAZI: Mr. Chairman, may I say first of all a

             few words about the very attractive pacakge of                    op&~ions,


           - the borrowing from Japan and the loans to three very fine

             projects we have today before us.                  On the lending s ide , we
                                                          iO

             h~v~      an Ivory Coast project which promotes even               ~tift~~f           the
                 .   ~·~.~~   '''.
             orig inal economic cooperation of the three AFrican countries,

             a~~~~~           to primary education which has as its        obj ~c~~~i .c
             t~v~~~ use of twentieth century tec~loqy in tq~t~~rfn of TV
             td~!~~ove the quality of a somewhat less educational
              n.q:uu.:                                       , · ~ C.t'i                      ni

             pr~~ift, and a loan project which can be cons ide~~t~M~ only
                                                                                                          ...
             aRv~~lf~ttempt              of Egypt to increase the productiv~~~ ~; ~ ts
             agr ;r-;:u~ ture,          but maybe more iJipOrtantly, an   attemp,~ ~,, 1::o
           NFIDENTIAL                                               58
STRICTLY




           protect for future generations the quality of its environment

           and its natural resources.

                        On the borrowing side, we have a very sizeable

           loan from Japan, a new source of funds for the World Bank,

           and I think it is very significant that we should have been

           able to raise these funds at such a favorable rate, given the

           present situation of the capital market.     I think it carries

           the same interest as Japanese Government-guaranteed securities,

           and this is a tremendous vote of confidence in our institution,

           a demonstration that the creditworthiness of the Bank is

           firmly established and will not be impaired by our decision

           to expand the volume of our operations, and to enter into new

           fields of activity, such as population, education, et cetera.

                        I think such an agenda gives an accurate reflection

           of the role being assumed by the Bank increasingly as a

           leader in development assistance.     So a few words of acknowledg

           ment and appreciation are in order this week, since it coincide

           with the second anniversary of your association with the Bank

           Group.

                        Now, withzegard to the project before us, I would

           like just briefly to say that I am pleased, very pleased that

           the Bank has finally directly entered into the field of primary

           education.     It is something I have advocated for quite a while,
STRICTLY    NFIDENTIAL                                                      59




           so it is very gratifying to me that our first intervention

           in the field as represented by the Ivory Coast project,

           would set the right pace.   It is, I believe, an outstanding

           project as well as an experiment of the highest interest,

           because of the possibility of implementing similar projects

           in other developing countries.

                     It is of course in this particular field of what

           might be called loosely research and development in education

           that the Bank can make the most useful contribution.      So I

           am very happy to give my complete support to this project.

                     Mr. Chairman, you have already discussed at some

           length in various public statements the current crisis in

           education in the developing countries, and the need for

           various reforms, so I hardly need to draw a picture of the

           tremendous waste, both in terms of resources and more

           importantly in human capital, which exists in this

           field in most countries.    We have been eloquently and

           strikingly told this morning by Mr. Ballantine that it is not

           unusual for example to find in the typical African country tha

           something like 55 to 60 percent of the school population

           never completes the primary cycle of education, and of those

           that go into secondary school, there remains a mere 6 percent
                                                                             60
STRICTLY C NFIDENTIAL



          who do actually   ~o   through the complete cycle.   These statistic

          speak for themselves.     Obviously something needs to be done

          and I am glad that the Bank is now willing to take this

          challenge.    The usefulness of the part that the Bank can

          play in this domain is of course very largely dependent on

          the objective it assigns to itself.      You have in this regard

          chosen as the three key objectives first to assist our member
          countrie• to bring more relevance to the content of their

          education systems and programs: second, to assist them to

          achieve more efficiency in the educational process, both throug

          better training for teachers and the use of technologically

          advanced supporting materials such as the TV; ahd third,

          to assist them achieve this objective in an econa.tc way.

                       I think those are the key elements to any improvement

          we can bring in this field, and I want you to know that

          you have my unqualified support for your efforts in this

          regard.

                       Thank you.
                       MR. McNAMARA: Thank you very much, Mr. Tazi.

                       Mr. Stone.

                       MR. STONE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                       Mr. Chairman, I think we have had so far an extremely
          interesting discussion of this fascinating project, and I was
                                                                         61
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           particularly interested in the responses which were given to

           the two questions asked by Mr. Hanemann, both of which questio s

           I must say had been in my mind.

                     I confess I was not wholly in sympathy with the

           response given to those two questions, and in that respect,

           judging by the reaction around the table, I might find

           myself at variance with at least some of my colleagues.

           The difficulty of course about questioning the benefits of

           educational expenditure is that it is rather like casting

           doubts on the virtue of motherhood.   Educational   exp~nditure


           is by definition in the minds of all of us an extremely good

           thing, but like other forms of resource use, it is not costles ,

           and the only question, therefore, there might be in the minds

           of those who control or influence such expenditures is

           whether they are likely to be more productive and hence in the

           longer run in the best interests of the member countries where

           those expenditures are being incurred.

                     That after all, is what the Bank's operations are

           supposed to be all about, and that, after all, is what the

           process of economic development in the developing countries

           is supposed to be all about.

                     So, however much our emotions may be stirred

           by the extremely -- poignant I think is the appropriate word -




     .1.
                                                                             62
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           the poignant state of education in many of our member

           countries, it does always do well to try to keep a cool head

           in addressing oneself to those problems.

                     It is, I think, with those thoughts in mind that

           when the Bank adopted its policy on education to which Mr.

           Ballantine referred earlier, that it did largely confine itsel

           or let me put it in a negative sense, it kept out of the

           primary education field, except in some perhaps minor

           indirect ways, and what I think Mr. Ballantine has suggested

           this morning, and I understand, sir, with your endorsement,

           is that the time has come to make a change in that and to re-

           cast our thoughts upon that question.

                     I'm not sure about that.    Certainly I'm not aware

           that the matter has ever been put to the Board for its
                                                         C-hOl   "'J£_ ;.,
           consideration, and if we are to make such a ahcnaqein our poli ies

           I would personally appreciate the opportunity of having it

           discussed by the Board before action is taken, so to speak,

           to change our policies ad hoc.

                     Let me say, perhaps, in passing, I take full note

           of what Mr. Ballantine has said about What he called the

           change in educational thought on this question of primary

           education, and indeed· generally.    I don't think this is the

           moment to enter into a debate upon that matter with him, and
                                                                            6
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           I don't propose to.     I would just say that it is within my

           limited experience of these matters that I have tended to

           find that educationists as a class are rather to be distrusted

           and I don't of course in saying that -- I realize our own empl yee:

           in that field are exempt from that suspicion, but as I say,

           with limited experience, I have tended    ~find   they have

           usually imbibed rather too much of psychology in the course

           of their training and as a result, their views tend to change

           if not from one year to the next, at least from one decade

           to the next, going up and down like women's hemlines,

           because I can't think offhand of a field in which fashions are

           more prevalent than education, so I think we do well to be

           a little cautious in accepting what purports to be a new view

           about these matters..

                     Well, I won't say any more about that, Mr. Chairman,

           at this time.

                     It is clear that the four qualities which I think

           were mentioned, quality, relevance, economy, and efficiency

           can all be assessed as merits.     Clearly everyone must be in

           favor of efficiency.     Everyone must be in favor of economy.

           Everyone must be in favor of relevance.     T~ only question         ~

           about quality is how much does it cost, and what are the

           returns, what are its benefits?
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                               64



                    Now, the second question to which Mr. Ballantine

           referred in his response to Mr.Hanemann was really a quite

           separate matter and doesn't depend for its answer upon what

           view one takes of the answer given to the first question, and      hat

           question was, assuming that it is appropriate on economic

           grounds for considerable expenditures to be undertaken in the

           developing countries in the priamry education field, necessari      ,
           I might say, at the expense of expenditures in other sectors of

           those economies, because, as has been said, resources are not

           unlimited, the question is who should do it?     Mr. Hanemann

           I think in his question referred to UNESCO.    A similar questio

           which had been in my own mind, and I thought of UNESCO also, I

           also though of UNDP which after all was originally set up

           with a biref in the technical assistance field    ~rticularly.


           Now, UNESCO of course has a much broader brief than that

           and it may be that Mr. Hanemann's question is therefore the

           more appropriate one and the one which I had misframed.

           However, whether it is more appropriate to think in terms of

           UNESCO or UNDP, the real question is, is it appropriate for the

           Bank to make a take-over bid in this field? After all, I think

           there must be some limit to our ambitions, Mr. Chairman.

           That also is a question which perhaps at some future date we

           may have a better opportunity to discuss than is provided
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                 65




           today on the basis of a particular country project which is

           thoroughly acceptable in itself.

                      Coming, then, to the project, Mr. Chairman, I should

           say that I am very ready to give it my support.   The one

           aspect of it apart from the fact that it does tend to impinge -,

           on the primary field, but I'm quite prepared, quite happy

           with that aspect of this project since it does so only

           incidentally, the one aspect of the report which of course

           does attract attention is the instructional television aspect

           of it.   Like Mr. Lynch, I have somewhat mixed views about

           that aspect. I don't know that I entirely agree with his

           comment that-- his original comment-- I think he may have ·

           somewhat amended it -- to the effect that television is a

           sort of non-participatory medium. I think, as a matter of fact,

           Mr. Chairman, if I may make a small confession, I spend a

           certain amount of time each Saturday morning watching with my

           small children "Sesame Street" which is one of the few

           television programs in this country which is able to drag me

           away from reading fascinating documents such as this (holding

           an IBRD document aloft), and I think there is very little

           doubt in my mind that there and at that level, which is of

           almost a pre-school, pre-primary level, is a television progr
STRICTLY t ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                              t
                                                                              I

          hich can produce certainly audience participation, not only on

          he part of small children but at the same time I do have

          orne residual doubts about the use of television as an   instruc~


          ional medium and although I listened carefully to what was sai

          bout the Hagerstown experiment, I was reminded in the course

          f that of, I think, a rather famous experiment in economic

          rganization which I think was carried out by the Mayoylinic

          any, many years ago, and which is probably to be found in

          i/terature which is no longer read by economic students, where          .7
                          \

          'twas found thatpperatives, when certain conditions of

                   changed, became more productive.    This was deemed

                   to be the result of changing the conditions.     Unfor-

                   as the experiment continued, it was discovered that

          hatever one did by way of changing the conditions,    ~hether

          ne changed them in a way which one prima facie would have

          bought to be productive or in a way which prima facie one woul

          ave thought tobe counterproductive, productivity still went

          n rising and the conclusion which I think was arrived at in th

          ase was that the operatives got an enormous kick out of being

          atched and out of being the subject of an experiment.

                    I can't help wondering a little whether. . perhaps the

           arne kind of factors might not also at least partly have been a
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                       6




           work in the Hagerstown experiment.     However, I am not

           qualified to debate that matter and I just simply throw out

           that remark in passing.

                        Mr. Chairman, I would therefore simply like to say

           that so far as the TV component of this project is concerned,

           I too think it's going to be a fascinating experiment and

           I am quite prepared to support it on that basis.       I would

           not like to see the Bank embarking on any more experiments

           of this kind until we have at least a modicum of experience

           from the present one, and if I may say so, I should also like

           to have that remark apply to the general question of financing

           a project in a primary educational field, at least subject

           to a policy discussion on that matter which I originally

           requested.

                        MR. McNAMARA: Thank you, Mr. Stone.

                        Mr. Ballantine pointed out I think that this project

           in his opinion and in mine also, I might say, falls within

           our existing   policy~.   It is an exceptional case.   I won't

           comment further on Mr. Stone's other points, other than to say

           I think, Mr. Stone, the experim&nt you were talking about

           was carried out not by Mayo but by Western Electric Company

           at their Hawthorne works in Chicago under the direction of

           Dr. Rauthisberger in the mid-thirties.
                                                                       68
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                     MR. STONE:   That is quite right, Mr. Chairman.

                     MR. McNAMARA:   Are there further comments or question ?

                     Yes, Mr. Samarakkody.

                     MR. SAMARAKKODY: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                     I greatly appreciate being able to support this proje t.

           I find that this scheme is the result of a kind of recon-

           naissance mission in which IBRD is going to be associated,

           and they've found out the difficulties of education in

           this country and have come out with this project which covers

           vocational education, secondary education, technical education,

           post-secondary education, general secondary schools,

           ~acher training, and primary education. I think it is a packa e
           which it would be not wise for us to try to look upon piece-

           meal.   It is the result of study by UNESCO, the United Nations

           agency which is charged with the problem of education.

                     In this particular country, the school dropout rate

           is very high. The reasons for it have been analyzed, and

           this is an attempt to overcome some of the problems that arise

           in this country.   Unless we do support primary education,

           whatever the earlier policies of this Bank were, I think it is

           time for us to review those policies because without widesprea

           primary education in a country, you cannot possibly harness

           the best talents in the country.
                                                                            69
STRICTLY        ONFIDENTIAL



                          The situation in this country reminds me of what

                the English poet said, "Full many a flower is born to blush

                unseen and waste its sweetness on the desert air."

                          I think if you give education only to 44 percent

                of the children in the country, 60 percent, the flowers of

                60 percent of the country must necessarily go to waste, so I

                take great pleasure in .being able to support this project.

                          Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                          MR. MCNAMARA:   Thank you, sir.

                          Mr. Plescoff.

                          MR. PLESCOFF: Mr. Chairman, the question mark

                which Mr. Stone put on the problem of cost versus quality,

                has given me one idea if we cannot diminish the cost,to increa e

                the output of the system of TV.   If we have 3000 or 5000

                villages with TV in schools, and the schools are closed in the

                evening, couldn't it be used for the parents to improve the

                agricultural process, teaching them even when they cannot

                read, something which could be useulf?      Did that idea come

                into the minds of the Ivory Coast people --except that it is

                the Ministry of Education, not the Ministry of Agriculture, bu

                wouldn't. it be possible for the Bank to coordinate its

                two systems?




           I
           II
                                                                      70
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL




                    MR. McNAMARA:     Let me ask Mr. Lethem.

                    MR. LETHEM: We have not wished at this stage to push

           in this experiment for too many experiments at the same time.

           However, as part of the preliminary studies to this project,

           there has been involvement by ILO to examine how to use the     ~


           television medium for the training of thoseprimary school

           leavers who would not benefit from secondary education.

            s you know, the employment of primary school leavers is one

            f the difficult problems to solve in Africa, and this study

            ooks into the problem of how to use television for assisting i

                 training.

                     In any case, this is only the first phase of a tele-

            ision scheme.    Adult education will be performed with the

            ystem at hand, once, and possibly if time is available also

            n parallel with the teaching of primary school children.

            n fact, Ivory Coast has already had an experiment and a rather

            uccessful one in use of television for adult training to

            ntroduce rice growing in the Bouake area.

                     MR. McNAMARA:    Are there further comments or

            uestions, gentlemen?

                     Mr. MacMillan.

                     MR. MacMILLAN:    Mr. Chairman, I will try to be as
                                                                      71
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



           brief as possible because most of the comments that I intended

           to make have been made by others, and the questions I had

           intended to ask have been more than answered by the

           interventions that Mr. Ballantine made, but I do want to

           emphasize how much I personally welcome this project and in

           view of the range of problems it addresses itself to

           in the Ivory Coast, it seems to me that in view of the

           constraints on resources for both capital investment and

           traditional forms of education, and probably even more

           importantly, the constraints with respect to the recurrent

           costs involved in traditional forms of education, on the

           scale that would be required in most developing countries,

           in a very short time if this problem of low literacy rates

           and lack of meaningful training is to be dealt with in any

           meaningful way in the next few years, or in the foreseeable

           future for that matter.   I think Mr. Ballantine also

           emphasized that they're proceeding in an area here that

           is not well known, and essentiallly there is a good deal of

           chance-taking, I think.

                     In view of the problem, I don't see where we have

           any choice but to take whatever chances are involved in this

           type of experiment.   In view of the experience in educational

           TV already undergone here on this continent and elsewhere,
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                     72




           I am not sure that I regard the experiment as all that

           dangerous.    The problems that have to be overcome, and I

           think the consequences in terms of productivity, although

           not necessarily measurable in the ways we're accustomed to,

           may ot be able to measure them precisely, particularly in the

           early stages, nevertheless, I think they'll be there, and

           it may not be all that important whether we can measure them

           precisely, particularly the benefits in terms of development

           of human resources, which I think is the primary objective

           of economic development.

                        I think the involvement in other areas is

           pointless unless that is the primary objective.

                        I personally also welcome the fact this involves

           the Bank in primary education and the introduction on a

           nationwide scale of the ITV, and I would certainly agree with

           Mr. Stone's comment about the effectiveness of television

           on pre-schoolers, from my own observation, and this is

           consistent with your comment that the effectiveness will

           probably be determined by what is put on to that television

           screen, not the fact of the television screen.

                        I think this project is certainly a pioneering

           project so far as the Bank's concerned, and unlike one or two
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                  73




           of my colleagues, I would welcome, I would be glad to

           see further projects of this kind undertaken to measure the

           full benefits of the program.   I would imagine it would

           require a minimum of five years and probably a good deal longer

           If we wait until that time to try to identify effective means

           of overcoming the literacy problem that exists, the problem

           is going to be a good deal larger by the time we get around

           to dealing with it.

                     Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.

                     MR. McNAMARA: Thank you, sir.

                     Gentlemen, are thereother comments or questions?

           If not, we will consider the project approved.

                     Mr. Kochman.

                     MR. KOCHMAN:   Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Governme t

           of the Ivory Coast, I wish to say how thankful I am to the

            embers of the Board for their approval of this project.

            ducation is of course of high priority in the Ivory Coast

            overnment's program. This project will undoubtedly contribute

            o a great improvement in the present education system,

            nd I can assure you and my colleagues that all   conceivabl~


            ffort will be made to ensure its successful execution.

                     To be true, this will certainly be facilitated by

            he careful preparation of which the project has benefited from
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL                                                    74




           various governments, mainly from the French Government and

           multilateral agencies such as UNESCO, UNDP, EEC, UNICEF.     The

           Government of Ivory Coast will certainly continue to rely grea ly

           on them during the implementation period of this project.

                     As regards the Bank, I think it important for me

           to say that the Government of the Ivory Coast considered this

           decision to finance the primary education and instructional

           television aspect of this project for the first time in

           the history of this institution as one of the most significant

           contributions that the country has ever received so far from t e

           Bank, and thatit highly welcomes this decision, mainly for

           the following reasons:

                     First, it is viewed as a serious indication that the

           Bank Group is aware of the continuous effort of the Ivory

           Coast toward development and is confident that the success

           story of its economic performance over the past decade can-

           be successfully maintained.

                     Second, the Ivory Coast Government also considers

           that this decision is a critical test for its capacity to

           serve as an example for other developing countries which are

           faced with several difficulties arising from the inadequacy of

           their education system, not only to their economy but in
STRICTL   CONFIDENTIAL                                               75




          general to a global and harmonious development policy.

          I am convinced that this challenge will be met.

                    Mr. Chairman, we also realize that this decision

          is along the lines of the comments you have made in your

          recent speech at Columbia University, in which you referred

          in particular to the need for quality goals and a new approach

          to development problems. I'm sure therefore that all developin

          countries,especially in Africa, will be hopeful that it marks

          a first concrete step of a new Bank policy which will be

          increasingly oriented in the future toward a more direct

           relationship between the classical ends of economic developmen

           and its primary beneficiary which in the final analysis is the

          human being.

                    Please allow me to express once more my deep

           appreciation to the officers and the staff of the Bank for the

           efficient way in which they handled this important operation

           and for the excellent and very well documented presentation

           they just made of the approved loan.

                     Last but not least, I would like to congratulate

           you, Mr. Chairman, for recommending this loan at this

           particular juncture and I can assure you that the Government

           of the Ivory Coast is indeed grateful to you and to all those

           who have made possible this investment.
                                                            76
STRICTLY   ONFIDENTIAL



                  Thank you.

                  MR. McNAMARA:   Thank you, sir.


                                                    -
                               ··--
                                                        -




                                                        -
