FlI'LE   COPY                 REST:RICTE
rlL]|;I t9 12 ~Report No. P-626
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE YUGOSLAV INVESTMENT BANK
FOR
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
July 30, 1968



REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE YUGOSLAV INVESTHiENT BANK
FOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $16 million to
Jugoslovenska Investiciona Banka (Yugoslav Investment Bank) to assist in
financing the modernization and re-equipment of ten industrial enterprises.
PART I - IISTORICAL
2.       The Bank has made eleven loans to Yugoslavia for a total amount
of $331.0 million of which '.29h.6 million was outstanding as of June 30,
1968.
3.       The proposed loan would be the fifth for industry in Yugoslavia.
A loan of '32.7 million (20 YU) was made in 19h9 for the purchase of timber
processing equipment. Of the two following loans (51 and 73 YU), which
totalled $58.0 million equivalent and were made in 1951 and 1953 to assist
projects in various sectors of the Yugoslav economy, the major portion
of t,48.5 million assisted 38 projects in industry and mining. All projects
assisted under these loans were successfully completed and the enterprises
are reported to be in normal operation. A loan of $10.5 million (504 YU)
was made in 1967 to assist in the modernization and re-equipment of seven
industrial enterprises.
4.       The Yugoslav Government submitted a request to the Bank for a
further loan to assist in financing the modernization of industry in
July 1967.  Twenty-four projects were submitted for consideration, from
which ten were selected for detailed appraisal, mainly on the basis of
their size, diversified geographic location and economic priority of the
respective branches of industry. An appraisal mission was in Yugoslavia
from January to F1arch 1968.  Loan negotiations were held in Washington
from July 8 to July 10. Principal members of the Yugoslavia delegation
were Mr. Nl. Bojanic, General Manager of the Yugoslav Investment Bank, and
Dr. L Serb representing the Yugoslav    Government.
5.       Yugoslavia is a Part II member of IDA but has received no IDA
credits.  It became a member of the IFC on July 5, 1968.  The following is
a summary statement of Bank loans to Yugoslavia as of June 30, 1968.



-2-
Loan                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Number    Year       Borrower                Purpose         Bank       Undisbursed
20 YU    1949    Federal Government     Industry           2.7             --
51 YU    1951    Federal Government     Industry, Power,
Agriculture &
Transport       28.0            --
73 YU    1953    Federal Government     Industry, Power,
Agriculture &
Transport       30.0            --
277 YU    1961    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Power             29.8            --
318 YU    1962    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Power             30.0           0.1
344 YU    1963    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Roads             35.0            --
361 YU    1963    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Railways          35.0             --
395 YU    1964    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Railways          70.0          46.3
465 YU    1967    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Roads             10.0           7.0
5olh YU   1967    Yugoslav Investment
Bank                 Industry          10.5           9.7
531 YU    1968    Yugoslav Investment                           I/
Bank                 Railways          50.0 -           --
Total (less cancellations)              331.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                   36.4
Total now outstanding                   294.6
Amount sold                    4.6
of which has been repaid     2.4        2.2
Total now held by Bank                  292.4
Total undisbursed                                      63.1
Not yet effective



- 3 -
6.       Execution of most of the projects has been satisfactory.  The
closing dates of the two power loans (277 and 318 YU) were postponed by
about 18 months because of delays which were outside the control of the
Yugoslav authorities. Both projects are now practically completed.
Progress on the first railway project - the Sarajevo-Ploce ;Iailvay -
(361 YU) was delayed, primarily because of a major increase in its cost
which had to be covered by additional contributions from the Federal
Government and the Republics concerned. It is now substantially completed.
The railway modernization project (395 YU) was delayed mainly by slow
awarding of contracts resulting largely from the 1965 foreign exchange
reform, by modification of designs, and by a substantial increase in cost,
financing for which the Federal Government has only recently provided.
The project should be completed in 1971. W.ork on the highway loan of 1963
was completed on schedule in 1966 and work on the highway loan of 1967 is
proceeding according to schedule and well within the original cost estimates.
After some initial delays caused by the Bank's procurement requirements,
much of the imported equipment to be financed from the industrial moderniza-
tion loan (504 YU) has now been ordered, and progress is satisfactory.
7.       No new project in Yugoslavia is presently being appraised.  The
discussions which have taken place for the past two years between the
Yugoslav Investment Bank, a Yugoslav enterprise and a foreign company on
an aluminum project resulted in an agreement, but one which did not provide
a basis for Bank participation. The Bank expects shortly to discuss
possible financing of new highway projects, and there have been preliminary
discussions about the basis for further lending for industry.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.       Borrower:              Yugoslav Investment Bank
Guarantor:             Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:         1.  Wood-Working Industrial Combine Brest
(BREST), in Cerknica, Slovenia;
2.  Twenty-one May   11otor Factory (DMB),
in Belgrade, Serbia;
3.  Electronics Industry Nis (EI NIS),
in Nis, Serbia;
4.  Sport Tools Factory (ELAN),
in Begunje, Slovenia;
5. Maribor Textile Factory (MTT),
in Maribor, Slovenia;



6.  Novoles Wood-W4orking Combine (NOVOIES),
in Novo Mesto, Slovenia;
7. Copper Rolling LAill Slobodan Penezic
Krcun (SEVOJNO),
in Titovo Uzice, Serbia;
8. Stol Furniture Industry (STOL),
in Kamnik, Slovenia;
9.  Trepca Mining Metallurgical Chemical
Lead and Zinc Combine (TREPCA),
in Kosovska Mitrovica, Serbia;
10.  Shipyard Viktor Lenac (VIKTOR IENAC),
in Rijeka, Croatia.
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to $16 million
Purpose:              To assist in financing the modernization
and re-equipment of ten industrial enter-
prises.
Amortization:         Semi-annual installments beginning May 15,
1971 and ending November 15, 1982.
Interest Rate:        6 1/2% per annuli
Commitment Charge:    3/4 of 1',f per annum
Relending Terms:      The proceeds of the loan would be relent
by the Borrower to the Beneficiary Enter-
prises in amounts and upon terms and conditions
approved by the Bank. Repayment and grace
periods of the subsidiary loans would be the
same as those of the Bank loan.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Yugoslav Industrial Projects"
(LA-3) is attached (No. 1).
Yugoslav Industry
10.      Yugoslav industry is described in the economic report entitled
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Yugoslavia" of July 29, 1968.
Over most of the post-war period Yugoslav industry developed on a rather
autarkic basis with severe restrictions on foreign trade. This resulted,
inter alia in over-diversification of output in some sectors and uneconomic



- 5 -
scales of production. M4oreover, in earlier years political interests had
too great a say in economic decisions, and this had resulted in some mis-
allocation of resources. Thus the objectives of the Economic Reform of
1965 in regard to industry were to reduce the influence of political bodies
in the direction of investment and the management of enterprises and to
create conditions which would favor those industrial enterprises wihich
could compete effectively both in the domestic and foreign markets. To
promote the latter, customs tariff rates were approximately halved at the
time the dinar was devalued (from $1 = D7.5 to D12.5) in July 1965, and
imports and the foreign exchange regime were substantially liberalized
in January 1967.
11.      The Economic Reform involved far-reaching changes in the Yugoslav
economy, and difficult adjustments for many enterprises. After many
years of rapid growth, during which industrial production rose by about
12.5 per cent annually, industrial output as a whole rose by only 4 per
cent in 1966 and did not grow in 1967. To provide some stimulus to
recovery, the Yugoslav authorities have provided assistance to particular
industrial branches by increased tariff protection and in other ways.
For example, tariffs on steel products have been doubled to an average of
approximately 12 per cent and certain quotas on steel imports have been
imposed. Such assistance will be provided on a selective basis after
consideration of the likely impact on other sectors of the economy, and
the broad objective of the Economic Reform of stimulating enterprises to
achieve greater efficiency by subjecting them to increased competition
from abroad has not been changed. Iith an easing of credit, particularly
for exports and by providing a stimulus to consumer demand, the authorities
aim at a growth of industrial production in 1968 of approximately 4 per
cent. No growth targets for later years have yet been established.
12.      Investment in particular branches, for example ferrous and non-
ferrous metals, petroleum, chemicals, electric power, is proceeding
approximately in accordance with the targets of the 1966/70 Development
Plan and the targets for output of these sectors are expected to be
realized though perhaps only with some delay. The process of specializa-
tion and integration in many branches of industry is proceeding, though
in some cases more slowly than the authorities expected, and consideration
is being given to providing additional incenitives such as tax concessions
and increased credit to hasten the integration process.
The Self-Management System
13.      The Yugoslav enterprise system is unlike that found in any other
country. In manufacturing industry the means of production are socially
owned and managed in trust for society by those who work in them. WJorkers
in the enterprise elect a WJorkers' Council which has responsibility for
the progress of the enterprise. In addition to the Workers' Council, there
is an Executive Committee and a general manager. The rights of each of
these bodies are determined by law and the statutes of the enterprise and
the Assembly of Workers, that is to say of all employees of the enterprise.



- 6 -
The Workers' Council elects the Executive Committee, the general manager
and the top executives of the enterprise, normally for a term of four
years.
1h.      The system appears to work satisfactorily.   In many enterprises
the quality of management is good; in some it is outstanding. W4ith some
exceptions, the general manager seems to have enough authority for the
satisfactory operation of the enterprise. On technical questions the
Executive Committee or Workerst Council would not normally challenge the
decisions of the general manager, though his proposals are often carefully
scrutinized from the viewpoint of their effect on workers' incomes.
15.      As mentioned above the Economic Reform was intended to reduce the
influence of political bodies in the direction of economic enterprises.
This seems to have been accomplished to a large extent. In many cases the
general managers, particularly of the larger enterprises, are members of
the Communist Party and they are aware of the broad aims and objectives
of Government policy. In their daily operations, however, they seem to
be free from official interference and to be able to make their decisions
on the basis of business considerations.
The Loan
16.      The proposed loan would assist in financing the foreign exchange
requirements for the modernization of ten existing enterprises in various
fields of Yugoslav industry: automotive engines, non-ferrous metals,
electronics,textiles, ship-repairing, and furniture and other wood products.
The principal objective is to rationalize production, reduce costs and
improve product quality. The projects were selected by the Yugoslav
Investment Bank as being of economic priority in various sectors of
industry. Their total cost is estimated at $49 million equivalent,
including working capital. The direct foreign exchange component is
estimated to be about a16 million. The local cost financing, equivalent
to $33 million, will be provided by the enterprises themselves and through
loans from Yugoslav banks.
17.      The proposed loan, which would be guaranteed by the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, would be made to the Yugoslav Investment
Bank, an investment institution established in 1956. The Investment Bank
has served as a conduit for the eight Bank loans to Yugoslavia since 1961,
totalling $270 million equivalent. A description of the organization of
the Investment Bank and of its activities is given in Appendix 12 of the
appraisal report. The loan proceeds would be relent by the Investment Bank
to the Beneficiary Enterprises in amounts and upon terms and conditions
approved by the Bank. It was agreed during negotiations that the repay-
ment and grace periods of the subsidiary loans would be the same as those
of the Bank loan to the Investment Bank. The interest rate on the subsi-
diary loanswould be not less than one half per cent above the interest
rate on the Bank loan. The amounts to be made available to the individual
enterprises are expected to be approximately as follows:



-7-
Proposed Allocation
from IBRD loan
Name of Enterprise             Product                     (US Millions)
DIB                Automotive engines                     .10
SEVOJNO            Rolled copper and brass
semi-finished products              3.50
M4TT               Textiles                              1.98
E.I. NIS           Semi-conductors, resistors,
capacitors                          1.76
TREPCA             Refined lead and by-products           1.70
ELAN               Skis and sports equipment               070
VIKTGR LENAC       Ship repair facilities                  .ho
NOVOIES           Furniture and woodworking               .86
BREST                  "      "                            .68
STOL                                                       .32
16.00
Any savings from funds allocated for a particular project would be
available, with the agreement of the Bank, for those projects in
which there was an overrun in foreign exchange costs.
18.      The projects have been investi.gated in the field and have
been found well designed and ready for execution. The managements
of the enterprises are capable and snould be able to carry out the
projects effectively. All enterprises have performed well in the past
and their financial positions are sound. Several of them have arrange-
ments for cooperation with WJestern firms relating to technical matters,
supply of components, and marketing.
19.      Because of the nature of the modernization projects, loan
proceeds in a number of instances would be used to finance a relatively
large number of comparatively small items which represent to some
extent specialized equipment. According to Yugoslav law, Yugoslav
enterprises purchasing equipment must request bids from at least
three suppliers.  It has been agreed with the Borrower that except
where it would be impractical for technical reasons, the goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan -will be procured on the
basis of contracts awarded after the respective Beneficiary Enterprise
has obtained proposals from at least three qualifed suppliers outside
Yugoslavia in member countries of the Bank and Switzerland. The
Yugoslav Investment Dank would be responsible for supervising com-
pliance with this procedure.



- 8 -
PART IV - LEGAL INS 'U!ENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the Report of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distrituted to the Executive Directors separately.
These draft agreements contain provisions generally used for projects of
this type. Attention is drawn to the following provisions of the draft
Loan Agreement:
(a) The Yugoslav Investment Bank would undertake to provide,
or cause to be provided, any additional funds that may
be required for any of the projects (Section 6.01 (b));
(b) The Bank would have the right to cancel portions of the
Loan corresponding to amounts of any subsidiary loans
cancelled by the Yugoslav Investment Bank (Section 6.07);
and
(c) In case of prepayment of a subsidiary loan by any of the
Beneficiary Enterprises, the Yugoslav Investment Bank
would have to prepay a corresponding amount of the Loan
(Section 6.08).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Yugoslavia" (EA 173a) dated July 29, 1968, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 1. After many years of rapid growth the recent Yugoslav
economic reform involved a far reaching reorientation of the economy and
difficulties in its implementation led to a sharp slow down in the economic
growth.  Nevertheless, the basic objectives of the reform were sound and
substantial progress has been made towards a more efficient use of the
country's resources. The problem of servicing Yugoslavia's external
debt, although difficult, appears manageable, and notwithstanding sub-
stantial uncertainties the prospects for the growth of the economy, when
considered in relation to Yugoslavia's overall economic performance,
lead to the conclusion that the country can be considered creditworthy for
the loan now under consideration.
PART VI - COiPLIANCE W1ITH THE ARTICIES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 9 -
PART VII - RECOMNENDATION
23.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOIUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Yugoslav Investment Bank in
an amount equivalent to U.S. 416,000,000 to be
guaranteed by Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Yugoslav Investment
Bank to be guaranteed by Socialist Federal Republic of Yugos-
lavia, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million United States dollars (U.S. $16,000,000), to mature
on and prior to November 15, 1982, to bear interest at the
rate of six and one-half per cent (6 1/2%) per annum, and
to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be sub-
stantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Industrial Projects-1968)
between the Bank and Yugoslav Investment Bank, and the form
of Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Projects-1968) between
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, which
have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 30, 1968



