Report No. PID9913
Project Name                     Cambodia-Flood Emergency Rehabilitation (@)
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       KHPE73394
Borrower(s)                      KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PLANNING
386 Blvd. Preah Monivong, Phnom Penh,
Kingdom of Cambodia
Contact Person: Mr. Ou Orhat
Tel: 855 232-12055
Fax: 855 323-10944
Email: pmcu@camnet.com.kh
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 17, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             March 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Country BackgroundExcept for the two years (1997 and 1998) when it was
hard-hit by domestic problems and ripple effects of the Asian financial
crisis, the Cambodian economy has been growing quite rapidly since 1991.
Annual real GDP growth ranged between 4 percent and 7.6 percent during
1991 to 1996, and was estimated at 4.5 percent in 1999. Before the 2000
floods, real GDP was forecasted to grow by 5.5 percent in 2000. However,
it is estimated that the impact of the floods could cut the GDP growth
rate by as much as 1.5 percent in 2000. The country's per capita income
stood at US$290 in 1999. Although economic growth since 1993 has reduced
poverty somewhat, a poverty assessment carried out in 1999 indicates that
36 percent of the population still lived below the poverty line, with the
concentration of poverty being higher in rural areas where 40 percent of
the population was found to live below the poverty line. A large
proportion of the population is clustered around the poverty line,
indicating a potential for significant increases in the incidence of
poverty when the country is hit by disasters such as the 2000 floods.The
FloodThe 2000 floods, which started in the middle of July and continued
through mid-December, are thought to be the worst in 50 years and part of
an apparently increased flood frequency in recent years Major floods last
occurred in the same areas in late-1996.. The rivers around Phnom Penh
(particularly Bassac River and Tonle Sap River), were well above emergency
levels for all of September and a large part of October. Thanks to
extraordinary efforts by government flood-fighting brigades, breaches in
the 40-year old dike protecting Phnom Penh were avoided and the capital
city was saved from serious flood damage. The record high levels of the
river systems and the unusually long floods have seriously damaged
Cambodia's infrastructure, caused extensive damage to crops and
livestock, and caused people extensive suffering as a result of



displacement, food shortage, interruption of economic livelihood and
disease. It is reported that 347 people died and a total of 760,000
families representing more than 3.4 million people were affected, with
more than 84,000 families (with close to 400,000 people) evacuated.The
Government's preliminary estimate of the total cost of damages from floods
is US$161 million. The Government is expected to revise this estimate
upwards in January 2001. The government estimates of the cost of damages
mainly refer to the direct damages. Indirect costs, which are down stream
costs stemming from the direct losses or damages, have not been included
in Government's estimates. Moreover, damages of some sectors such as
energy, telecommunications and housing, have not been included in the
government estimates. Consequently, the government estimates represent a
gross underestimation of the costs of flood damages.In terms of economic
losses, the greatest damage was to agriculture where the economic cost of
the losses is estimated by the Government at US$71 million. Of this,
US$62 million of the losses were in terms of rice associated with a damage
of 400,000 ha of paddy, of which 200,000 ha is reported to have been
destroyed completely. In addition, an estimated US$9 million was lost in
terms of damage to 47,000 ha of subsidiary crops and a loss of 2,300
oxen/buffaloes, and 1,620 pigs.The second most heavily destroyed sector is
the national and provincial transport network where damage is estimated at
US$47 million (recently raised to US$64 million by the Ministry of Public
Works and Transportation). In addition, flood control and irrigation
systems suffered a loss of US$17 million, Education Sector lost US$15
million, rural development (mainly rural roads) lost US$11 million and the
health sector lost US$0.7 million in damage to rural health
facilities.Both the ADB and the Cambodia Development Research Institute
(CDRI) estimate the flood damages to have cut GDP growth by 1.5 percent
although the Government has been reluctant to revise downwards its
pre-flood GDP growth estimate of 5.5 percent for this year (2000).Response
to the Flood EmergencyInformation received by the mission indicates that
provision of relief assistance by the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGOC)
and donors was quickly organized and effectively delivered. The government'
s ministries responsible for water resources and public works organized
effective flood-fighting and damage control works. The reported
contribution of RGOC of about US$15.5 million of support from the budget
has led to the postponement of salary payments and other non-flood
expenditures. External donors have provided relief assistance in the
range of US$16 million to US$20 million equivalent.In addition to the
relief assistance, the ADB has appraised an Emergency Flood Rehabilitation
Project valued at US$84 million. ADB proposes to contribute to financing
the project with a $55 million new loan and US$12.5 million through
reallocation of funds from existing loans. The balance, equivalent to
US$13.5 million largely in terms of taxes and duties, would be met by
RGOC, with a balance of US$2.0 million funded with a WFP grant. Response
Gap and the IDA ResponseThe response by IDA to meet emergency recovery
needs is in three forms. The first is in terms of reallocating funds from
on-going IDA-funded projects. A preliminary examination of our portfolio
indicates that only about US$5 million could be freed up, primarily from a
Transport project. The second form of assistance is through a possible
Social Fund Supplemental Flood Rehabilitation Credit of US$10 million
which was pre-appraised in early December 2000. The third form of
assistance is the proposed EFRP which will receive financing from a new
IDA Credit of up to US$35 million, assuming approval of the US$10 million
Social Fund Supplement.
-2-



2. Objectives
The project has two primary objectives which are inter-related. The first
objective is to restore production while the second objective is to
rehabilitate economic and social infrastructure, in response to the
damages caused by the 2000 floods. Support for restoration of production
would be provided through financing of some agricultural inputs, primarily
fertilizer, and by reducing the risk of selling land and production assets
(by flood-affected families) through support for restocking of emergency
and essential human drugs, and school grants to meet some school expenses
(scholarships, furniture and books and other supplies) that are normally
met by families. The rehabilitation objective would be pursued through
rehabilitation of damaged facilities. Another project objective is to
reduce the vulnerability of the country to flood damages. As Cambodia had
already experienced severe floods as recently as in 1996, it is apparent
that the country is increasingly becoming vulnerable to flooding. This
phenomenon appears to be occurring as a result both of natural causes
(e.g. rainfall and other climate changes) and of human interventions (e.g.
erosion of riverbanks) taking place in the Mekong watershed. To address
the problem of long term vulnerability of Cambodia to flooding, the
project would include support for studies, including a review of possible
projects identified under the framework of the Mekong River Commission,
aimed at developing a program to restore the natural drainage capacity of
the Mekong basin within Cambodia.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The damages caused by the 2000 floods are beyond the financial capacity of
Cambodia to correct in terms of rehabilitating the damaged infrastructure
and restoring production and social services to pre-flood levels. Even
after the RGOC had spent in excess of US$15 million and other donors,
particularly the ADB, had committed resources to support relief and
rehabilitation efforts, there is still a large gap. The question is
whether the Bank should step in to fill the gap and why? The answer is
yes: IDA support to restore GDP growth and economic livelihoods of people
to pre-flood levels is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy, dated February 2000 (and discussed by the Board on February 29,
2000), whose main objective is to assist Cambodia build the foundations
for sustainable development and poverty reduction by, among other things,
rebuilding infrastructure, rebuilding human capital and facilitating
private sector development. This is what the proposed EFRP is set out to
do. It will rebuild infrastructure and school facilities and support a
rapid recovery in production in flood-affected areas.
4. Description
The project would be implemented over three years. It would be comprised
of the following components: (i) rehabilitation of school facilities; (ii)
rehabilitation of flood control and irrigation systems; (iii)
rehabilitation of national rural roads; (iv) rehabilitation of rural
infrastructure; (v) project management and implementation assistance
including a study to support development of a long term strategy to reduce
vulnerability to flooding.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       US$40.4
-3-



Total project costs are estimated at US$40.4 million, of which US$3.5
million, or 9 percent, are estimated to be taxes and duties. The Bank
would finance US$35 million, about 95 percent of total costs, less taxes
and duties. The rest, including duties and taxes, would be funded by the
RGOC.
6. Implementation
Project implementation will be coordinated and monitored by a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), chaired by the Minister of Planning, in line
with the Government's preference. Under the PCC, there would be a Project
Monitoring and Coordination Unit (PMCU), a Secretariat of PCC headed by a
Secretary of State, which would oversee, coordinate and monitor project
implementation. The ADB Flood Rehabilitation will use the same
arrangements as we are proposing. Each of the two donors would have a
separate Section in the PMCU coordinating the project. Actual
implementation of each sectoral component would be undertaken by Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) within each relevant line ministry. Within
each line Ministry, the aim would be to use PIUs of on-going World Bank or
other donor projects, with some minimal expansion if necessary. As there
is a Section in the Ministry of Economy and Finance which has some
experience in handling procurement and financial management of World
Bank-funded projects, it will undertake financial management for the
project.Given there is a large number of sub-projects in each sector and
the need to respond rapidly to the flood disaster, implementation will
follow a program approach, with most of the subprojects prepared and
evaluated during project implementation. Selection criteria will be
established for each sectoral component. Only the subprojects for
implementation in the first year of the project would be prepared and
evaluated before the Credit is effective. The sub-project selection
criteria together with other guidelines for implementation of subprojects
will be contained in a simple Operations Manual which will was reviewed
during negotiations and will be adopted before the credit is effective.
Retroactive financing would be considered for up to 20 percent of the IDA
Credit for eligible expenditures incurred since the date of the first
mission, namely December 15, 2000.
7. Sustainability
While the project aims to restore production and rehabilitate damaged
infrastructure to pre-flood levels as well as to undertake up-grading of
infrastructure on a case by case basis, operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure and sustainable growth in production will be supported by
existing projects and other projects in the pipeline. As there are some
projects in the portfolio or pipeline in each of the sectors where the
FERP has a component, these projects would be relied upon to enforce
sustainability of the investments undertaken under the proposed project.
Furthermore, although the FERP will aim, where feasible, to deploy design
standards that can reduce damages from similar floods in future, it will
largely rely on the projects in the portfolio and pipeline to develop and
deploy improved technology standards that can withstand floods to ensure
long term sustainability of investments made under the FERP. In addition,
the proposed project supports a study to develop a strategy to reduce
vulnerability to flooding.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Relevant lessons for design of FERP can be drawn from at least 3 sources:
- 4 -



(i) previous Bank-supported emergency projects in Cambodia; (ii) previous
Bank-supported emergency projects outside Cambodia; and (iii) other
Bank-supported projects in Cambodia. The Bank has supported two emergency
type projects in Cambodia in the past: the Emergency Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2550) approved in 1993; and the Economic Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2781) approved in 1995. A performance audit for the two
projects carried out by the Operations Evaluation Department in 1999 drew
the following relevant lessons for the design of the proposed project.
First, emergency project objectives should be consistent and cohesive,
with an adequate project implementation period if infrastructure
rehabilitation is the objective, and a broad ear-marking of foreign
exchange and counterpart fund use if support for general critical imports
is the objective. The proposed project will incorporate this lesson in
its design by clearly separating the infrastructure rehabilitation
components from the imports component, and ensuring an adequate
implementation period for the former and a broad earmarking of foreign
exchange and counterpart funds for the latter. Second, emergency loans
should have no policy reforms or other similar conditions for
disbursement. This lesson will be reflected in the proposed project by
doing away with policy conditions. Third, emergency loans should be
simple in design consistent with the borrowers' institutional capacity to
prepare and implement projects. This lesson will be reflected in the
design of the proposed project by using Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) of on-going IDA projects to implement the various components of the
proposed project.Some important lessons drawn from past emergency projects
outside Cambodia that will be reflected in the design of the proposed
project include: (i) the speed of appraisal and implementation is crucial
to project success; (ii) procurement needs to be flexible and procurement
management should start early; (iii) mitigation measures should always be
included against a repeat disaster; and (iv) simple and flexible design
and rapidly executable. Drawn from: Gilbert, Roy and Kreimer, Alcira,
1999. "Learning from World Bank's experience of natural disaster related
assistance", Urban Development Division; and Kreimer, Alcira, 1990.
"Lessons learned from emergency lending", Environment Department working
Paper No. 1990-15.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  As the proposed project would support
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, environmental and social
impacts will be minimal. Environmental and social issues would be taken
into account in the planning and design stages of sub-projects, in
screening subprojects and during project implementation. Appropriate
environmental, resettlement and indigenous peoples guidelines are being
developed and will be reviewed during negotiations and included in the
project's operational manual to guide the design and screening of
sub-projects to ensure that they are in compliance with Bank safeguard
policies. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
operational manual and environmental, resettlement and indigenous peoples
policy guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, would be adopted by RGOC
before the credit is effective.11. Benefits and RisksAs the proposed
project would support rehabilitation of existing infrastructure,
environmental and social impacts will be minimal. Environmental and
social issues would be taken into account in the planning and design
- 5 -



stages of sub-projects, in screening subprojects and during project
implementation. Appropriate environmental, resettlement and indigenous
peoples guidelines are being developed and will be reviewed during
negotiations and included in the project's operational manual to guide the
design and screening of sub-projects to ensure that they are in compliance
with Bank safeguard policies. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the operational manual and environmental, resettlement and
indigenous peoples policy guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
adopted by RGOC before the credit is effective.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 4198
Fax: 202 477 2733
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 16, 2001.
- 6 -



