Page  1
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
March 28, 2001
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Re:  Credit No.3472 KH
(Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
Development Credit Agreement (Schedule 3)
Representations and Assurances on Procurement
Dear Sirs:
We are pleased to refer to the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between Kingdom of Cambodia and International Development Association for the 
above-mentioned Project and, more particularly, to Schedule 4 thereof, and to confirm, 
on behalf of the Borrower, that, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the 
Association, the following rules shall apply in respect of contracts for goods and 
works financed under the credit and procured according to national competitive bidding 
procedures, and contracts for consultants’ services financed under the credit,  
respectively.
Contracts for goods and works
(a)
Foreign suppliers and contractors from eligible countries shall, if they 
are interested, be allowed to participate without being required to associate or form  
joint ventures with local suppliers or contractors.
(b)
Prior registration shall not be a requirement to participate in bidding 
procedures; but it may be required in the case of a selected bidder as a condition of 
signing a contract.
(c)
Pre-qualification of contractors shall be required for competitive 
bidding in the case of large or complex works; in all other cases, pre-qualification 
shall only be required in justifiable cases and with the prior approval of the 
Association.
(d)
When pre-qualification is required, the evaluation methodology shall be 
based on pass/fail criteria relating to the firm's experience, technical, financial, 
physical and human resource capacities.
(e)
A public bid opening ceremony shall take place immediately after the 
deadline for presentation of bids, and without any intervening time lag, and, during 
such public bid opening ceremony, bids shall be opened and read out in public and in 
the presence of bidders' representatives who wish to attend.
(f)
In all cases, the award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive 
and complying bid and, except with the prior approval of the Association, no 
negotiations shall take place with any bidder prior to the award, even when all bids 
exceed the cost estimates.
(g)
In the case of all contracts with a duration in excess of 18 months, 
bidding documents shall allow for price adjustment formulae.
(h)
Bidders, who disagree with arithmetic corrections made by the evaluating 
committee during the evaluation stage, shall not be allowed to withdraw their bids 
without forfeiting their bid security.
Contracts for Consultants’ Services
(i)
If negotiations with the selected consulting firm ranked first do not 
result in a contract, the owner shall terminate negotiations with that firm and 
immediately proceed to negotiate a contract with the second ranked firm.
Page  2
(j)
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, price may be used as a 
factor in the evaluation of consultants’ proposals.
It is our understanding that, in making the above Credit, the Association may 
rely on the statements herein set forth or referred to.
Very truly yours,
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Roland Eng
Authorized Representative
