                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34749




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-34720)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.1 MILLION (US$37.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                   THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                                 FOR A

                         FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           December 21, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 2005)

                       Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel
                  1 Cambodian Riel = US$ 0.000238
                             US$ 1.00 = 4,193 Riels

                              FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 -       December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DRD            Directorate of Rural Development
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FERP           Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project
FWUC           Farmers' Water Users Community
GPS            Global Positioning System
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IS             International Shopping
MAFF           Ministry of Agriculture, Forest, and Fisheries
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEF/WBD        Ministry of Economy and Finance/World Bank Division
MOEYS          Ministry of Education, Youth & Sport
MOH            Ministry of Health
MOP            Ministry of Planning
MOWRAM         Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology
MPWT           Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
MRD            Ministry of Rural Development
MTR            Mid-term Review
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NCDM           National Committee for Disaster Management
NPCC           National Project Coordinating Committee
NS             National Shopping
O&M            Operation & Maintenance
PAP            Participatory Approach Program
PCU            Passenger Car Unit
PDWRAM         Provincial Department of Water Resources and Meteorology
PIU            Project Implementation Unit or Provincial Implementation Unit
PMCU           Project Monitoring and Coordinating Unit
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
RGOC           Royal Government of Cambodia
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SOE            Statement of Expenditures



                     Vice President:        Jeffrey Gutman (Acting), EAPVP
                  Country Director          Ian Porter, EACTF
                    Sector Manager          Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Liping Jiang, EASRD              (08/2004-12/2005)
                                            Steven Schonberger, EASRD (01/2003-07/2004)
                                            Frank Byamugisha, EASRD          (01/2001-12/2002)

                                             CAMBODIA

                      FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT


                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
    6. Sustainability                                                                11
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
    9. Partner Comments                                                              15
    10. Additional Information                                                       16
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
    Annex 8. Social and Poverty Impact Assessment                                    31
    Annex 9. Borrower's Comments in Detail                                           49
Map -IBRD 31287

Project ID: P073394                                                  Project Name: Cambodia: Flood Emergency
                                                                     Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Liping Jiang                                            TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Cambodia: Flood Emergency Rehabilitation                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-34720
                            Project
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (50%); General education sector (24%); Irrigation and drainage (12%);
                            Flood protection (11%); Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/08/2001                                     Effective: 06/04/2001                06/04/2001
     Appraisal: 01/18/2001                                         MTR: 02/15/2003                  02/24/2003
      Approval: 03/13/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey Gutman (Acting)                        Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Mark D. Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Liping Jiang                                   Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha
ICR Primary Author:             Liping Jiang; Youxuan Zhu; Zhi
                                Li


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


3.1.1   The main objective of the project was to rehabilitate economic and social infrastructure
damaged by the 2000 floods while also indirectly supporting a recovery in rural production and
incomes. Another objective was to assist the government in formulating a long-term strategy
aimed at reducing the country's vulnerability to flooding.

3.1.2   The objectives were clear and consistent with the Borrower/World Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Cambodia which called for poverty alleviation and reconstruction
of infrastructure to promote social and economic development in rural areas. The project was
designed to meet the urgent needs of a large number (around 6 million) of flood victims after the
2000 floods, and had a very clear target group of people to be assisted and scope of the
infrastructure to be rehabilitated under the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:


3.1.2   The original project objectives remained unchanged throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:


3.3.1   The project comprised five components: (a) the rehabilitation of damaged sections of
national primary and secondary roads; (b) the rehabilitation of rural infrastructure; (c) the
rehabilitation of flood control and irrigation systems; (d) the rehabilitation of primary and
secondary schools; and (e) project management and financial assistance to carry out studies to
help the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGOC) in the development of a long-term strategy to
reduce vulnerability to flooding.

3.3.2   These components were well designed as an integrated set of basic actions and activities
that supported the achievement of the project objectives. Lessons and experiences were taken
into account learned from responsible implementing agencies and similar and past flood
emergency projects in reconstruction and recovery work of infrastructure: (a) sub-projects should
be simple and suitable for rapid implementation; (b) sub-projects should serve a large number of
beneficiaries and promote poverty alleviation; (c) sub-project implementation should get local
government support and participation; (d) sub-projects should be the most cost-effective or
least-cost solution; (e) sub-projects should be up-graded to avoid similar damage in the future;
and (f) sub-projects should comply with the Bank's related safeguard policies.

3.4 Revised Components:


3.4.1   The original components remained largely unchanged throughout the implementation
period except for the following aspects: (a) adjustment of investments for flood control and
irrigation components; the number of irrigation sub-projects proposed to be rehabilitated at
project appraisal was reduced from 85 to 33 at the time of the mid-term review (MTR) because
the costs of initially-considered sub-projects were discovered to be under-estimated after the
detailed studies were carried out by the international and local consultants; (b) additional funds


                                                  - 2 -

(US$2.5 million) realized from exchange rate gains against the SDR were reallocated to the
components that had more pressing demands for sub-projects; and (c) the original budget
allocation of US$40,000 for the study on flood mitigation was increased to US$60,000 in order
that more intensive work could be undertaken to prepare a case study on mitigation of local
flash-floods in a small watershed to enhance the government's long-term strategy aimed at
reducing the country's vulnerability to flooding (see Annex 1 & 2 for detailed revisions).

3.5 Quality at Entry:


3.5.1   While the project was not subject to a review by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), the
quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS,
which called for poverty alleviation and reconstruction of infrastructure to promote social and
economic development in rural areas. To accomplish the objectives, the project incorporated the
following valuable experiences which had been proved to be effective in project management and
implementation of the previous Bank-supported projects: (a) the project was strongly coordinated
by comprehensive ministries and implemented by line ministries in close cooperation with
project-related municipalities and provinces; (b) an operational manual was prepared and adopted
prior to effectiveness of the Credit which provided the detailed technical guidelines and
operational rules for project management and implementation as well as check-lists for ensuring
compliance of project preparation and implementation with the Bank's safeguard policies; and (c)
the samples of the representative sub-project proposals for each project implementing agency
(including their formats, key contents and approval procedures) were reviewed and agreed by the
Bank and Borrower and provided to the implementing agencies as examples to ensure quality at
entry.

3.5.2   However, given the emergency nature of the project with a very short
preparation/appraisal process, there was insufficient time to prepare a thorough design with field
visits to include the project activities as mentioned below, which have been considered to be
important and necessary for project management and implementation. With the benefit of
hindsight. three activities can be identified that would have improved the project.

3.5.3   The project could have included a component on formal training and capacity building.
Successive training of government staff in project management and implementation throughout
the period of project implementation, particularly in the Bank's procurement guidelines and
financial management as well as project compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies, proved to
be necessary to avoid any incompliance or problems. During project implementation, the
international consultants provided considerable on-the-job technical training to their counterpart
officials and local consultants. However, the time for the training was insufficient. Subsequently,
a complementary training program on procurement and financial management was provided to
include more project staff with IDA financing to avoid problems during project implementation,
which proved to be highly effective. However, no training was provided in the Bank's safeguard
policies and compliance with them during project preparation and implementation.

3.5.4   The project could have included a component on agricultural extension services. Based
on the analysis of the impact of project components on poverty alleviation in Annex 8, access to
irrigation is the closest correlate of lower rural poverty rates, and the poor integration of



                                                   - 3 -

agricultural extension and irrigation results in low returns to irrigation investments. Therefore,
the agricultural extension services are extremely important to the irrigation component under this
project. Lack of the component in the project has contributed to the insufficient irrigation returns
and reduced farmer incomes in the areas covered by the irrigation component.

3.5.5   The project could also have included a list of the sub-projects identified through field visits
with priorities or ranking for IDA financing at project appraisal, especially for the irrigation,
school and rural road components. The lack of such a list made it difficult for the Bank
supervision missions to identify, review and make comments on the sub-projects selected by the
line ministries and local governments during project implementation due to various unexpected
changes afterwards.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1   The outcome of the project is rated as having been satisfactory.

4.1.2   The project's main objective of restoring essential infrastructure, facilities, services and
production was achieved in a rapid and consistent manner. The completed sub-projects restored
social services and economic production within the shortest possible time after the floods. The
new facilities were made more flood-resilient and also designed to meet the short-term expansion
needs (e.g., schools and irrigation systems). In addition, because of the installation and/or
reconstruction of early warning systems and flood protection infrastructure and the successful
completion of the case study on mitigation of disasters caused by local flash-floods to enhance the
national strategy on flood mitigation, the project has directly contributed to reducing the country's
vulnerability to future disasters and the risk of future economic losses.

4.1.3   The project benefited an estimated maximum of 5.9 million people (see Annex 8 for
detailed calculations of the number of beneficiaries) and was fully appreciated and highly valued
by the poor villagers, local governments and general public in the project area. Since most of the
selected sub-projects are located in relatively poor rural communities, the rehabilitation of national
and rural roads, restoration of irrigation facilities and construction of new school buildings has
brought significant social and economic benefits to the rural communities. With the restoration of
these critical facilities, the project has had the following substantial outcomes: (a) increased traffic
volume on rehabilitated national and provincial roads, which has brought about various
opportunities for development; (b) increased yields of farm products, which has improved food
security for many rural poor; (c) increased farm-gate prices and improved access to markets,
which have increased income generated from agricultural production; and (d) improved access to
social services and education, which has increased student enrollments and promoted community
participation. These multiple-dimensional changes have contributed with synergy to a reduction
of poverty and assurance of food security in the project areas and have provided a solid basis for
long-term and sustainable social and economic development in the project areas. This conclusion
and the following specific outcomes of the project by component are supported by the detailed
analysis in Annex 3 and Annex 8.




                                                    - 4 -

4.1.4   One project outcome was generated by restoring damaged national and provincial roads,
which greatly improved transport conditions in the project areas. Along with the increase of
traffic volume, the rehabilitated roads have brought a range of benefits to local communities,
including: (a) eased travel to cities to find jobs; (b) reduced travel time and cost; (c) increased
price and reduced cost for farm products; (d) expanded employment for local villagers; and (e)
increased land values along the roads.

4.1.5   Similar outcomes and benefits were achieved from restoring damaged rural roads in 162
communes, 46 districts and 20 provinces. Most of them are located in relatively poor
communities. A total of 226,541 families and 1.98 million people have benefited from improved
access to markets and social facilities, reduced transport cost, increased farm-gate prices and
income, and increased employment opportunities during construction. In addition, through
implementation of rural infrastructure, the institutional capacity of participating provincial
Departments of Rural Infrastructure has been improved.

4.1.6   Another significant outcome was made from rehabilitating irrigation systems and flood
control works for 33,706 families and 204,694 individuals from 355 villages. A total of 42,882 ha
of farmland has benefited from improved irrigation systems, which resulted in increased yields,
food security and incomes among benefited poor villages. This outcome could be used as a
generic and valuable experience for the future development of irrigation in Cambodia, which
demonstrated that access to irrigation, which covers less than 15 percent of the cropped area in
the country, is the closest correlate of lower rural poverty rates. In addition, based on extensive
participation by beneficiaries, 33 Farmers' Water Users Communities (FWUCs) have been set up
and are operating which provide improved maintenance and repair services to be more sustainable
for the irrigation facilities and flood control works. However, to make the FWUCs fully
sustainable, immediate actions, including agricultural extension service improvements and
government financial support for the overhaul of the irrigation systems, were proposed to be
taken as soon as possible.

4.1.7   The last major significant outcome of the project was the enormous impact of restoration
of, and improvements to, the damaged facilities for 376 schools. The rehabilitation of school
buildings provided direct benefits for 179,645 students by reducing their safety risks and
encouraging more participation. Improved learning environments and convenient locations have
contributed to an increase of enrollment among these schools and communities. In addition, the
project also tried a community-based procurement approach in building the schools which was
found to be a better method for local communities in terms of quality control of construction,
operation and maintenance (O&M) and sustainable development of the schools. However, in
order to make it work properly, more technical training for communities is required, including the
selection of experienced local builders and the supervision of construction.




4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1   National Road Component (total actual cost: US$12.92 million) The achievement of


                                                   - 5 -

the output of this component is rated as satisfactory. The component involved the rehabilitation of
damaged sections of four national primary and secondary roads to pre-2000 conditions (National
Roads Numbers 3, 31, 33, and 61) with a total length of 249 km. The total cost amounted to
US$12.9 million, representing 30 percent of total project costs. The completed rehabilitation has
resulted in increasing traffic volumes on these four roads from 6,984 vehicles per day in 2001 to
15,163 vehicles per day in 2005.

4.2.2   Rural Infrastructure Component (total actual cost: US$8.10 million) The achievement
of the output of this component is rated as satisfactory. This component comprised the
rehabilitation of flood-damaged rural infrastructure facilities, including 110 sub-projects with 567
km of rural roads, 77 bridges and 466 culverts, representing about 19 percent of total project
cost. Most of these rehabilitated roads were surfaced with locally-available laterite and
compacted to the defined standard. This has improved the road condition to all-year­round use
with easy access to market towns and the primary national road network, which have benefited a
total of 226,541 families and 1.98 million of population from 1,031 villages, 162 communes, 46
districts and 20 provinces.

4.2.3   Flood Control and Irrigation Systems Component (total actual cost: US$11.63
million) The achievement of the output of this component is rated as satisfactory. The
component rehabilitated 33 flood control and irrigation systems in 30 districts and 15 communes,
which provided reliable irrigation and flood protection for 42,822 ha of farmland benefiting
33,706 families and 204,694 individuals from 355 villages and 82 communes. Along with the
completion of the physical works, the task of establishing and training 33 FWUCs has also been
achieved, which provided a model for sustainable long-term operation though the model needs to
be carefully monitored and supported in the future. However, as a result of the under-estimate of
project costs for required works by provincial staff of the Ministry of Water Resources and
Meteorology (MOWRAM), the project outputs were reduced considerably from 89 to 33
schemes but the total improved farmland was reduced by a lesser extent, from 57,000 ha to
42,822 ha (see Annex 1).

4.2.4   Primary and Secondary Schools Component (total actual cost: US$9.4 1 million). The
achievement of the output of this component is rated as satisfactory. The component has
successfully rehabilitated 378 schools with 1,492 classrooms (1,459 new and 33 repaired)
benefiting 179,645 students, representing about 22 percent of total project costs. Because of the
increase of emphasis on new construction and the diversion of some funds from civil works to the
provision of toilets and clean wells, the total number of classrooms actually rehabilitated (repaired
and new) is 1,492, which is less than the number of 3,100 classrooms set by the project (see
Annex 1). However, in terms of the quality of construction and cost effectiveness, the outputs
achieved are higher than those planned. The student population which directly benefited from the
project exceeded the original target.

4.2.5   Project Coordination and Management Component (total actual cost: US$1.34
million) The implementation of this component is rated as satisfactory, given that it has provided
strong support to strengthen central project monitoring, procurement and financial management
systems, and implementation assistance, as well as financial assistance to carry out the case study
on mitigation of the disasters caused by local flash-floods.


                                                  - 6 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:


4.3.1   As an emergency recovery operation, there was no calculation made of the economic rate
of return (ERR) at project appraisal and no calculation of the ERR is required at project
completion. The project had a significant positive economic impact on beneficiaries associated
with all four investment components. The project is estimated to have benefited directly some
5.92 million people in the provinces covered by the project. The detailed analysis on the impact
of the project's four investment components on poverty alleviation is given in Annex 8.

4.4 Financial rate of return:


4.4.1   This is not required for an emergency recovery operation. However, financial analysis was
conducted for the 15 FWUCs selected from the 15 project-related provinces with the data and
information obtained through field surveys and from MOWRAM. Based on the results of the
analysis, the annual income for all of the FWUCs was insufficient to cover the annual O&M
expenses with overhaul, and two of them were even unable to cover the O&M expenses without
overhaul, which shows that none of the FWUCs developed under the project is financially
sustainable at present.

4.4.2   The financial analysis indicates that the financial sustainability of the FWUCs depends
upon adequate farmer's incomes, which should be increased through enhancing agricultural
extension services to support improved production methods and thereby ensure that the FWUCs
are sustainable or self-financed. With increased incomes, farmers could afford to pay water
charges to the FWUCs, and the FWUCs could then have sufficient income to cover the O&M
cost with overhaul.

4.4.3   To ensure the financial sustainability of the FWUCs established and developed under the
project, MOWRAM has prepared a detailed O&M plan which made the necessary and urgent
funds available for overhaul of irrigation systems and flood control works rehabilitated under this
project. But most importantly, MOWRAM and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forest, and Fisheries
(MAFF) should cooperate to make the agricultural extension services available for these FWUCs
as soon as possible (see Annex 3 for more details).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1   As a whole, the project had a substantial institutional development impact. Through
implementing construction activities and completing them efficiently within the budget under the
four components, the project has enhanced the institutional capacity among four Ministries
including the Ministry of Public Works and Transportations (MPWT), MRD, MOWRAM, and
the Ministry of Education, Youth & Sport (MOEYS) at the national level and the line agencies at
the provincial level.

4.5.2   For the national roads component, such enhancement is limited since MPWT had already
been a competent organization at the start of the project with experience in having implemented a
number of the Bank-funded projects. However, MPWT learned new experience through




                                                  - 7 -

implementation of this project, especially in contract management and construction supervision.

4.5.3   For the rural infrastructure component, considerable improvements were made in
enhancing institutional capacity at both national and provincial levels through project planning and
implementation by promoting decentralization, restructuring budgets, and involving the private
sector. Specifically, these improvements were reflected in the following aspects: (a) raising
awareness on road management and financing; (b) clarifying MRD's responsibility for managing
certain classes of rural roads; (c) developing procedures of using local contractors for
construction through competitive bidding; and (d) strengthening the capacity of MRD staff in
monitoring and supervising construction works by private contractors.

4.5.4   For the flood control and irrigation component, through extensive on-the-job training by
international consultants, the staff of MOWRAM has gained experience in preparing and
implementing individual irrigation projects. The experience gained includes the preparation of
project feasibility studies, preliminary and final designs, technical specifications and tender
documents; the supervision of civil works construction; the identification of remedial works for
hand-over; and the reception and acceptance of engineering works after the defect liability period.
Most importantly, the project has introduced a participatory approach to irrigation development
and management by actively involving water users at both the project design and construction
stage and the project operation stage, which ensured improved sustainable development and
management for irrigation projects. Under the project, 33 FWUCs have been established and are
now operating irrigation management and maintenance in accordance with the policy for
sustainability of O&M of irrigation systems (which was prepared and issued in 2000 by
MOWRAM with assistance from the project). This has been and will be of significant and
sustainable impact on irrigation development and management in the future for the whole of
Cambodia (see Annex 8 for detailed analysis).

4.5.5   For the schools component, one important institutional development was to introduce the
community-based procurement method which started in the fifth phase of sub-projects after the
amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the provision of the second
generation Special Account to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of MOEYS. Under
community contracting, the communities, through their School Support Committees, were
responsible for employing local contractors, supervising construction and making payment to
contractors with the assistance of site supervisors and Project Monitoring and Coordinating Unit
(PMCU) engineers. This community contracting scheme proved to be both practical and efficient,
and paved the way for the institutionalization of construction arrangements of this kind in
Cambodia.

4.5.6   Sustainability of the institutional development achieved under the project is likely among
four implementing agencies, as well as the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and the
Ministry of Planning (MOP), since some related policies have been issued (e.g., the policy issued
by MOWRAM on FWUC development) and related rules and regulations have been formulated.
Most importantly, the project has trained many ministry staff who are now experienced and
currently working in these Ministries and will apply what they have learned from this project into
their future work.



                                                  - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    After many years of neglect and war damage, the actual condition of roads was worse than
expected in some parts of the project area for the national roads component. This resulted in cost
over-runs and contributed to delays in project implementation. Climatic conditions, the presence
of land mines in some sections of the roads, and other international political events had also
affected the pace of project implementation. Under the requests from local communities, changes
in designs occurred for certain sections of road alignments.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    Rural Infrastructure Component: There were some coordination issues which delayed
project implementation given that the government could not help define responsibility for rural
roads between the provincial Department of Rural Development and MRD proper earlier in the
life of the project. Project implementation was also delayed at an early stage because there was
insufficient commitment and senior-level attention given to the project and to the agreements
reached at the time of preparation.

5.2.2    Flood Control and Irrigation Systems Component: There were some delays in
obtaining approval or clearance from the government for bureaucratic reasons. The government
could have increased its work efficiency to avoid these delays.

5.2.3    Schools Component: Because of a lack of coordination by the government, some schools
identified already by this project were actually rehabilitated with another donor's programs.
Meanwhile, some schools which were screened for inclusion in the project could not be
rehabilitated because of budgetary and time constraints. Some schools in the flood-prone areas
were omitted. The government could have provided the stronger coordination to avoid these
issues.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    National Roads Component: Particularly in the early stage of project implementation,
procurement was delayed by a lack of coordination and collaboration between MPWT, MOP and
MEF. The situation improved, but the problem remained throughout project implementation.
Administrative delays in decision making, clearances, contract awards and approval of routine
variation orders contributed to slowing down project implementation.

5.3.2    Rural Infrastructure Component: Delays in the hiring of consultants hampered the
start of activities, specifically in conducting feasibility studies, designing sub-projects, and even in
the supervision stage. Faster implementation of sub-projects could have been achieved if
supervision of sub-project design had been centralized or if the senior management of the
implementing agency had provided the necessary advice to staff and had made a commitment to
this component.




                                                     - 9 -

5.3.3    Flood Control and Irrigation Component: Because of the lack of experience by
provincial offices of MOWRAM resulting in under-estimating the cost for rehabilitating individual
sub-projects, the actual unit cost was substantially higher than the early estimate. As a result, the
total number of sub-projects that could be rehabilitated with the available funds had to be
reduced, from 89 at appraisal to only 33 in actual implementation.

5.3.4    Schools Component: At the time of its inception, the project had envisaged a reasonable
balance between new construction and repair works. However, because of the serious nature of
damage to existing school buildings and the unexpectedly high cost for making sound repairs,
many classrooms that were originally considered repairable in fact had to be newly constructed.
As a result, the total number of classrooms that needed to be repaired under the project was
reduced significantly (from 3,100 to 1,492) with 1,459 classrooms newly constructed.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    Total actual project costs were US$43.4 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$40.4
million. The estimates of costs by component were unchanged between the appraisal and the mid-term
review, and by project completion the actual expenditures compared to appraisal estimates were:

         Component          Appraisal - MTR Estimate     Actual (US$ million)    Actual as % of Appraisal
                                     (US$ million)
A. National Roads                       12.3                    12.92                       105
B. Rural Infrastructure                  8.1                     8.10                       100
C. Flood Control and                     9.3                    11.63                       125
Irrigation Systems
D. Schools                               9.4                     9.41                       100
E. Project                               1.3                     1.34                       103
Coordination/Management
Total                                   40.4                    43.40                       107


IDA finance was a total of US$37.5 million compared to the US$35.0 million foreseen at appraisal, the
difference being the result of exchange rate movements with respect to the SDR.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


6.1.1    The sustainability of the project is rated as being likely for the following reasons:

(a)      All four investment components prepared O&M plans for various pieces of infrastructure
rehabilitated or reconstructed under the project. These plans were reviewed and approved by the
corresponding implementing agencies and cleared (or, in some cases, remain to be cleared) by
MEF. Although the present situation varies among the four components, good arrangements are
either already in place or expected to be put in place in the near future by the implementing
agencies, in collaboration with other line ministries.



                                                   - 10 -

(b)     The budget for the O&M plan has been increased, and responsibility for implementing the
plan has been defined and prioritized. This is particularly true for the rural infrastructure
component and the flood control and irrigation component. For the national roads component,
additional clarifications are being made in order to allocate O&M funds to provincial departments.
However, the budget available has still been far from sufficient to cover the cost of O&M for both
rural and national roads rehabilitated under this project.

(c)     For the schools component, with the involvement of communities in school construction it
is expected that even greater success will be achieved in O&M of schools. MOEYS is
encouraging this traditional and strong community support for education and O&M of the
schools. In the long run, MOEYS will be responsible for securing the special funds for a school
maintenance program in the country. Currently, the level of funding is insufficient to meet O&M
requirements, and the best strategy is to strengthen community involvement and support so that
the schools constructed under the project can be well operated and maintained.

(d)     For the flood control and irrigation component, the further development of FWUCs,
including intensive technical training of their members on O&M, the introduction of agricultural
extension and the government's strong financial support through MOWRAM for overhaul of the
irrigation systems, is essential for the sustainability of the component. In this regard, MOWRAM
has issued relevant policies on FWUC development and O&M of irrigation and flood control
systems. The main farmers in all 33 established FWUCs have been given intensive training on
O&M of their irrigation facilities, supported with IDA financing at the completion of the project.
In addition to having responsibilities for O&M of physical facilities, the FWUCs are becoming the
focal point for receiving agricultural extension services. To make the extension services available
to FWUCs, MOWRAM has been cooperating with MAFF and local provinces. To make this
component sustainable, MOWRAM and MAFF should cooperate to make agricultural extension
services available for the 33 FWUCs to increase farmers' incomes; meanwhile, the MOWRAM
should ensure that the necessary and urgent funds are made available to assist these FWUCs in
O&M, including overhaul of the irrigation systems, before the FWUCs become sustainable or
self-financeds.



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


6.2.1   With full completion of the project, and in particular with the institutional development
arrangements at both central and local levels, the transition arrangements to regular operations
have been completed for different components and reflected in the likelihood of project
sustainability.

6.2.1   For the national roads component, based on the present institutional arrangements, the
Provincial Public Works Departments will be in charge of the monitoring and repairs. However,
because of the lack of funds and the delay of budget releases from the central government, the
capacity for road maintenance at the provincial level is limited. As part of transitional
arrangements, the central government has to provide maintenance funding to the current PIU,
aside from fees to be collected from the road users. During the transitional period, the Provincial


                                                  - 11 -

Department has been allowed to participate in the whole operation on toll collection, wherein an
on-the-job training is to be arranged aside from the formal training that has been organized.

6.2.2   For the rural infrastructure component, with the recent establishment of the Department of
Rural Roads within MRD the government has established a sustainable rural road maintenance
system supported by the national O&M strategy. The necessary actions have been taken to
ensure timely disbursement of the budgeted funds for effective implementation of the maintenance
activities.

6.2.3   For the flood control and irrigation component, the responsibility for O&M of individual
sub-projects has been handed over to the FWUCs which are now fully responsible for all
activities on O&M of the sub-projects. In the transition period, the provincial office of
MOWRAM remains the technical advisor responsible for making site inspections and advisory
visits to each of the FWUCs established under the project. There will be a continued need for
agronomic extension support from the MAFF and the MOWRAM. This needs to be formally
arranged as a defined task within these Ministries so that each registered FWUC receives
continuous and regular assistance. Without this support, the individual FWUCs could fail to
perform and the sub-projects would not achieve their objective of poverty alleviation and food
sufficiency.

6.2.4   Before MOEYS takes full responsibility for organizing and funding school maintenance
programs, the current Participatory Approach Program (PAP) model will be adapted and
expanded, and the continuous involvement of local communities will be encouraged as the best
strategy to improve the maintenance of project-funded schools.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


7.1.1   The performance of the IDA is rated as satisfactory. In response to the urgent request by
the RGOC for financial assistance in overcoming the devastating damage to rural infrastructure
caused by the 2000 floods, the Bank performed well in defining and approving the project within
a relatively short period. The floods caused wide-spread damage to rural infrastructure and
disrupted the lives of the rural poor. The IDA fielded an identification mission in December 2000
and an appraisal mission in late January 2001. Negotiations for the Credit took place in February
2001, and it was approved on March 13, 2001.

7.2 Supervision:


7.2.1   The performance of the IDA is rated as satisfactory. During project implementation, the
IDA responded promptly in reviewing and approving bid documents and contract awards, which
allowed the project to proceed smoothly. The scope of IDA supervision was generally limited to
the various progress review missions and the MTR. However, since progress on the project was
good and generally ahead of schedule, there was no requirement for additional intermediate
supervision missions.



                                               - 12 -

7.2.2   Throughout the implementation period, supervision missions were carried out on a regular
basis with an appropriate skill mix and good staff continuity. The Bank maintained a good
relationship with the implementing agencies. Supervision reports gave accurate assessments of
progress and constraints. IDA supervision missions took up relevant issues at appropriate times,
although they could do little to speed up institutional reform in the water sector. During the initial
stages of implementation, IDA supervision was mostly concerned with procurement and
administrative issues. In the later stage of project implementation, under recommendation of the
IDA supervision missions, project monitoring and evaluation was carried out and project
maintenance and operation plans were developed which provide appropriate arrangements for
regular and sustainable operation and maintenance after project completion.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


7.3.1   Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The total cost
of processing the project and carrying out supervision was US$832,000 equivalent to 2.2 percent
of the Credit and 1.9 percent of the total project costs (see Annex 4).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


7.4.1   Project preparation by the Borrower is rated as satisfactory. The project was a response
to an emergency. To assist the IDA to prepare the project in a timely manner, the Borrower was
well organized and committed certain resources to the preparation effort which included
collecting information, screening potential sub-projects and conducting field visits with the IDA
missions. This resulted in the project being prepared, appraised and negotiated in less than six
months. Detailed preparation of individual sub-projects was completed by PIUs under relevant
ministries with the assistance of consultants during implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


7.5.1   The government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Project
implementation was strongly supported by the government. The PMCU/MOP and IDA/MEF
provided coordination between implementing agencies and were responsible for consolidating the
various project documents, including progress reports, the Borrower's ICR and O&M plans,
although such coordination needed to be further strenthened. In addition, they also provided
review and approval of various proposals and the services for reimbursement and disbursement.
Most importantly, MEF managed to have allocated 100 percent of the counterpart funding needed
for project implementation, despite the financial difficulties with limited national budget for
counterpart funding.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


7.6.1.  The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory. For all four
investment components, under the effective management by implementation agencies among
relevant ministries, civil works contracts were not only successfully completed within budget but
were also of good quality. In addition, all four implementing agencies prepared O&M plans and
made institutional arrangements for implementing the plans.


                                                 - 13 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1   Consistent with the comments in sections 7.4-7.6 above, the overall performance of the
Borrower is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1     Based on the ICR review and an assessment of the project over the course of
implementation, the following lessons can be documented:

(a)     Capacity Building: Given that the project did not include a component on formal
training and capacity building, the implementation experience suggests that civil works restoration
projects generally require adequate programs for capacity building in the implementing agencies.
Training of government staff in project management and implementation proved to be necessary
throughout the period of project implementation, particularly in the Bank's procurement
guidelines and financial management as well as project compliance with safeguard policies. This
helped to ensure the timely completion of contractual works, the submission of withdrawal
applications and the liquidation of imprest accounts, and also reduced the likelihood of
noncompliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and safeguard policies.

(b)     Sub-Project Selection: The project did not have a list of sub-projects identified through
field visits with priorities or ranking for IDA financing at project appraisal, and this omission was
especially important in the irrigation, schools and roads components. This made it difficult for
supervision missions to identify, review and approve the sub-projects selected by the line
ministries and local governments subsequently during project implementation.

(c)     Agricultural Extension: An increase in farmers' incomes is extremely important not only
for poverty alleviation but also for sustainable O&M for their irrigation facilities rehabilitated
under the project. Availability of agricultural extension services is crucial to this. However, the
project did not include agricultural extension. The FWUCs developed under the project may not
be able to afford to pay the cost of O&M. It is recommended that MOA and MOWRAM
cooperate and take the FWUCs as focal points to introduce agricultural extension programs to
farmers, as the agricultural extension service is an integral part of the improved irrigation system
managed by the FWUCs.

(d)     Insufficient Planning: The early planning were insufficient to ensure project
sustainability. For example, no additional funds were ensured even for a few years until the
FWUCs are well established and self sufficient. The farmers clearly have the capacity to manage
their projects but do need some initial technical support. Another example is that no requirements
were made to stimulate the RGOC to finance the maintenance of the rehabilitated/repaired
structures (such as roads, levees, schools, bridges, and culverts). Only three years after the
original repair, for example, many embankments again need repair but no funds are available.

(e)     Community Training: Community contracting under the schools component with a



                                                  - 14 -

participatory approach has been proved to be the most efficient means of procurement for large
numbers of schools to be constructed simultaneously over geographically dispersed areas. The
communities, after the necessary training at all critical stages of project implementation to
increase their knowledge and empowerment, were able not only to identify the smaller
regionally-based construction companies which were experienced in school construction but also
to perform good supervision of school rehabilitation and construction. However, such training of
communities was inadequate given the constraints of the project budget. This was also true for
the FWUCs developed under the irrigation and flood control component.

(f)     Project Cost Estimates: Generally, more time should be spent estimating project costs.
In this case, the costs were estimated incorrectly largely because the local contract sums were
based on fixed, predetermined rates imposed on the local contractors. For example, the number
of irrigation sub-projects proposed to be rehabilitated was reduced from 85 at project appraisal to
33 at the MTR because the costs of the initially considered sub-projects were discovered to be
under-estimated once the detailed studies had been carried out by the international and local
consultants. In addition, for a flood rehabilitation project, contingencies should have been
planned for additional rehabilitation needs that new floods cause during project implementation.

(g)     Log-Framework: Even an emergency project benefits from an explicit, well-prepared
logical framework, but this project did not have one. A good logical framework would have
helped IDA to administer the project better.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


9.1     A workshop on the draft ICR was held and the detailed comments received were included
in Annex 9 verbatim. In summary, the Borrower agreed that the draft ICR is a fair, reasonable
and objective assessment and evaluation of the overall achievement of the PDOs and that the
ratings given by the Bank to each project component and to their performance are appropriate.
The Borrower assessed the Bank's performance as satisfactory.


(b) Cofinanciers:


9.2     There were no cofinanciers of the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


9.3     There were no other partners involved in the project.

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                      Outcome/Impact indicators

           Indicators/Matrix                     At Appraisal               Actual Estimate

 National Road
 (1) Total length of roads            139 km                       249 km
 (2) Traffic volume catered           6,984 vehicles/day           15,163 vehicles/day
 (3) Surface condition improved       5,000 mm/km for roughness    2,000 mm/km for roughness
 Rural Infrastructure
 (1) Average value of farm-gate sales                              Average value of farm-gate sales
 increased                                                         increased by over 30%
 (2) Average traffic volume           1,008 sets/week              1,260 set/week
 Flood Control and Irrigation
 (1) Flood mitigation study                                        Completed
 (2) Farmer Water User Community      Establish 30 FWUC on all     33 FWUC established and all of
 (FWUC)                               sub-projects                 them were formally registered,
                                                                   and Department of Irrigation
                                                                   issued certificates with all
 (3) Paddy yield increased            1.7t/ha                      sub-projects
 School                                                            2.3t/ha
 Numoer of enrolled students          164,739
                                                                   174,500



                                            Output Indicators
Indicator/Matrix                       At Appraisal       At MTR       Actual          % of MRT
National Road
NR3,61 ( km )                                   59            152         152             100.0
NR31,33 ( km )                                  80             97          97             100.0
Rural Infrastructure
Length of Road ( km)                          730             538         5674            105.5
Number of Bridges                               45             66          77             116.7
Number of Culverts                            300             312         466             149.4
Flood Control and Irrigation
Number of Irrigation Schemes                    67             30          33             110.0
Irrigation Area ( ha )                     41,200          30,290      41,969             138.6
School
Number of Provinces                            10              10          10             100.0
Number of Districts                            50              82          82             100.0
Number of Schools                             330             376         376             100.0
Number of new Classrooms                    1,100           1,459       1,459             100.0
Number of repaired Classrooms              2,000               33          33             100.0




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                Appraisal Estimate                MTR Estimate                        Actual                % Of     % Of
   Project Component                US$ million                    US$ million                      US$ million             MTR
                                                                                                                            Total  MTR IDA
                                                                                                                                   Financing
                           Local Foreign Total    IDA                            IDA                               IDA       Cost
                                               Financing  Local Foreign Total Financing   Local Foreign  Total   Financing

A. National Roads           7.6    4.7    12.3     10.6    7.6    4.7    12.3    10.6     7.98    4.94   12.92     11.20    105%     106%
B. Rural Infrastructure     5.5    2.6    8.1      7.0     5.5    2.6    8.1      7.0     5.50    2.60    8.10     6.96     100%     99%
C. Flood Control and
Irrigation Systems          6.2    3.1    9.3      8.1     6.2    3.1    9.3      8.1     7.75    3.88   11.63     10.00    125%     123%

D. Schools                  6.3    3.1    9.4      8.1     6.3    3.1    9.4      8.1     6.31    3.10    9.41     8.10     100%     100%
E. Project Coordination
and Management              1.0    0.3    1.3      1.2     1.0    0.3    1.3      1.2     1.03    0.31    1.34     1.24     103%     103%

Total Project Cost         26.6    13.8   40.4     35.0    26.6   13.8   40.4    35.0     28.57  14.82   43.40     37.50    107%     107%




Project Cost by Category (in US$ million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate                 MTR Estimate                        Actual
    Project Category                   US$ million                      US$ million                     US$ million              % Of MTR

                              Local     Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign    Total       Local      Foreign     Total

A. Civil Works                 24.6       9.2         33.8        24.6      9.2       33.8       26.22        9.81      36.03      107%
B. Equipment and Materials      0.2       0.9          1.1        0.2       0.9        1.1        0.22        0.99      1.21       110%
C. Vehicles                     0.1       0.6          0.7        0.1       0.6        0.7        0.07        0.41      0.48       69%
D. Project Staff                0.4        0           0.4        0.4        0         0.4        0.32        0.00      0.32       80%
E. Technical Assistance         0.0       2.7          2.7        0.0       2.7        2.7        0.00        3.97      3.97       147%
F. Training                     0.4       0.1          0.5        0.4       0.1        0.5        0.11        0.03      0.14       27%
G. Studies                      0.0        0           0          0.0        0          0         0.00        0.13      0.13        0%
H. Recurrent Costs              0.9       0.3          1.2        0.9       0.3        1.2        0.85        0.28      1.13       94%
Total Project Cost             26.6      13.8         40.4        26.6      13.8      40.4       27.78       15.62      43.40      107%




 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (in US$ million equivalent)


                                          At Appraisal                         At MTR                                  Actual

      Expenditure Category        Procurement Method/a              Procurement Method/a                  Procurement Method/a
                                                            Total                            Total                                     Total
                                 ICB    NCB      Other/b            ICB     NCB    Other/b              ICB        NCB      Other/b

    A. Civil Works              9.57    13.00     11.20     33.77   9.57   13.00    11.20    33.77     11.20      23.86      0.97     36.03
                                (9.07) (10.50)    (9.144)  (28.71) (9.07) (10.50) (9.144)   (28.71)    (9.52)    (20.29)     (0.66)   (30.46)
    B. Goods                    0.47               1.30     1.77    0.47            1.30     1.77      0.29        0.00      1.40      1.69
                                (0.47)            (1.04)   (1.51)  (0.47)          (1.04)    (1.51)    (0.29)       -        (1.23)   (1.52)
    C. Technical assistance                        3.74     3.74                    3.74     3.74      0.00        0.00      4.54      4.54
    (consultants and training)                    (3.74)   (3.74)                  (3.74)    (3.74)      -          -        (4.54)   (4.54)
    D. Incremental Oper.
   Cost                                            1.15     1.15                    1.15     1.15      0.00        0.00      1.13      1.13

                                                  (1.04)   (1.04)                  (1.04)    (1.04)      -          -        (0.97)   (0.97)
    Total                       10.04   13.00     17.39     40.43  10.04   13.00    17.39    40.43     11.49      23.86      8.05     43.40
                                (9.54) (10.50)    (14.96)  (35.00) (9.54) (10.50) (14.96)   (35.00)    (9.81)    (20.29)     (7.41)   (37.50)




                                                                - 17 -

a/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by Bank credit. All final costs include contingencies.
b/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured though national shopping, force account, consulting services, training, technical assistance services.




    Financial Summary (appraisal estimate in US$ million equivalent)

                    Sources                          2001             2002              2003           2004       2005        Total       % of Total
   Project Costs
      Investment Costs                                 5.2              14.2              13.6            6.3                   39.3           97.3%
      Recurrent Costs                                  0.3               0.4               0.3            0.1                     1.1            2.7%
   Total Project Costs                                 5.5              14.6              13.9            6.4                   40.4         100.0%


   Financing
      IDA                                              4.9              12.6              12.0            5.5                   35.0           86.6%
      Government                                       0.6               2.0               1.9            0.9                     5.4          13.4%
   Total Project Financing                             5.5              14.6              13.9            6.4                   40.4         100.0%




    Financial Summary (actual in US$ million equivalent)

                    Sources                          2001             2002              2003           2004       2005        Total       % of Total
   Project Costs
      Investment Costs                                 5.2              14.2              13.6            6.3                   39.3           97.3%
      Recurrent Costs                                  0.3               0.4               0.3            0.1                     1.1            2.7%
   Total Project Costs                                 5.5              14.6              13.9            6.4                   40.4         100.0%


   Financing
      IDA                                              4.9              12.6              12.0            5.5                   35.0           86.6%
      Government                                       0.6               2.0               1.9            0.9                     5.4          13.4%
   Total Project Financing                             5.5              14.6              13.9            6.4                   40.4         100.0%




       Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal Estimate             Actual Estimate              % Of Appraisal
                    Project Component
                                                          Bank     Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt.   CoF.     Bank        Govt.      CoF.

       A. National Roads                                  10.6      1.7                11.20      1.7              105.7      100.0
       B. Rural Infrastructure                             7.0      1.1                 6.96      1.1              99.4       100.0
       C. Flood Control and Irrigation Systems             8.1      1.2                10.00      1.6              123.5      133.3
       D. Schools                                          8.1      1.3                 8.10      1.3              100.0      100.0

       E. Project Coordination and Management              1.2      0.1                 1.24      0.1              103.3      100.0
       Total Project Cost                                 35.0      5.4                37.50      5.9              107.1      109.3




                                                                        - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


For this emergency recovery operation, no economic analysis was conducted either at project
appraisal or at completion. However, the benefits and outcomes were analyzed in general in
terms of changes in economic data or performance indicators before and after the project. In
addition, financial analysis for FWUC sustainability was conducted based on the data collected
from 33 FWUCs established under the project.

The economic and social development in the project areas was rapidly restored through
implementing the project components, including rehabilitation of damaged sections of national
primary and secondary roads; rehabilitation of rural infrastructures; rehabilitation of flood control
and irrigation systems; and rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools.

(a) National Primary and Secondary Roads

A total of 249 km of national primary and secondary roads were reconstructed and restored to
their previous condition in 2000. Based on the analysis of the information provided by MPWT, a
total of 258,000 households with 1.3 million poor people have directly benefited from the project,
taking into consideration that all four national roads rehabilitated under the project pass through
65 communes in 16 districts and 7 provinces or municipalities.

The completed roads have restored the vital traffic access to various social and economic
activities from the traffic flow of 2,943 vehicles per day in 2000 to 15,163 in 2005, while reducing
operating costs and raising working efficiencies of the vehicles. This component linked
production to markets and opened trading opportunities to remote areas of the country that used
to be unable to access outside markets. Increased mobility of people, goods and services, in turn,
created a positive circle of market dynamics. In addition, these completed roads have also
ensured the access to future flood evacuation.

(b) Rural Infrastructure

A total of 560 km of flood-damaged roads, 77 bridges and 466 culverts were rehabilitated to the
national standards stipulated by MRD. Based on the analysis of the information provided by
MRD, rehabilitation of these rural roads directly benefited 226,541 households with about 1.98
million poor people in 162 communes and 1,032 villages. The numbers of benefited households
and poor people could reach up to 679,777 and 3.52 million, respectively, if the total population
of the relevant districts is taken into account. As a result, the rural road conditions have been
greatly improved to ease all-round traffic movements from poor rural areas to market towns or to
the primary traffic network. In addition, the traffic flow measured in PCUs (passenger car units)
increased by 20 percent on average and the farm-gate sales per household increased by over 30
percent in average value.

(c) Primary and Secondary Schools

The construction of a total of 1,492 primary and secondary classrooms, including the building of


                                                 - 19 -

1,459 new ones and the repair of 33 old ones, was completed. These classrooms serve a total of
179,645 students in 376 schools (371 rebuilt schools and 5 repaired ones). The schools were
identified at project appraisal as the most severely damaged ones in ten provinces.

The layout and design of classrooms and schools were in line with the standards stipulated by
MOEYS. About 380 toilets and 161 water wells have been built for the rehabilitated schools so
that each of the schools has toilets (in comparison with 58 percent of the schools which have
toilets on a national average). The classrooms often have double shifts, about 59 students per
class on average. School buildings are made more flood resilient, on a higher base and
constructed with concrete frames instead of the timber frames and earth foundations used in the
past. Among the benefited students 95 percent are primary school students. A total of 179,645
families and 898,225 persons have benefited from school rehabilitation (assuming each family has
five family members with only one student).

These schools now have been equipped with adequate educational facilities for a large number of
the students affected by the flood in the poor rural and remote areas. The enrollment of students
in these areas has been restored to the level pre-flood.

Compared with the "direct-contract" approach to build schools, it was evident through the field
surveys that the community participation approach has more advantages, including: (i) it has
further strengthened the tradition which places value on education; (ii) it ensured quality of
construction; (iii) it enhanced the sense of ownership; and (iv) it ensured that the school built by
the community is well maintained.

(d) Flood Control and Irrigation

A total of 33 irrigation schemes, with irrigation works and flood protection works including 16
spillways, 7 flood gates and 18 km of dykes in 30 districts of 15 provinces, have been rehabilitated
and completed. In addition, the FWUC has been established and developed for each of 33
rehabilitated irrigation schemes and is now responsible for the O&M of these schemes.

The irrigation and flood control works provide direct flood protection and irrigation for about
42,882 ha of farmland including 22 percent of dry land and 78 percent of improved irrigated land.
It has benefited a total of 33,706 families and 204,694 poor people from 355 villages and 82
communes, according to the results of field surveys. In addition, the case study of flood
mitigation in the small watersheds provides warnings and prioritized options of evacuation when
flash floods occurs, which serves as a supplementary study on mitigation of local floods to the
strategic studies on mitigation of the major Mekong floods.

The total area of irrigated land covered by the 33 schemes rehabilitated under the project from
2000 to 2004 is 42,882 ha. As a result of the project, production of the major crops was
increased during the period. For example, the total production of paddy in the area increased by
98,600 tons in 2004 compared with 1998. The paddy yield kept increasing during the period as
well. The yield for wet paddy increased by 35 percent from 1,700 kg/ha in 2000 to 2,300 kg/ha in
2004. The yield for dry paddy also increased by 47 percent from 1,500 kg/ha in 2000 to 2,200



                                                - 20 -

kg/ha in 2004, though it is still at a low level. The following table shows the average annual
agricultural production per capita and average annual agricultural income per capita by
project-related provinces in 2000 and 2004. Annual agricultural production per capita in the area
was increased by 35-53 percent, of which the project contributed about 17-26 percent. The
annual farmer agricultural income per capita was increased by 73-97 percent, of which the project
contributed about 35-43 percent. The project contribution was estimated with replacement cost
methods assuming the benefit generated from the project could be shared between the fixed assets
of the original irrigation works and incremental investment by this project with an allocation
factor 0.4 of project investment.

                                  2000                   2004              Increase in %
                         Production    Income   Production   Income    Production    Income
               Province
                           /Capita     /Capita    /Capita    /Capita    /Capita      /Capita
                            Kg          US$         Kg        US$         %            %
             B M Chey          203.8          17      240.9        23.3       18.2         37.2
             Battambang        677.7        56.5      793.0        76.6       17.0         35.6
             Kampot            476.8        39.7      563.7        54.5       18.2         37.3
             Kandal              95.6          8      111.8        10.8       17.0         35.6
             Kg Cham             335        27.9      399.6        38.7       19.3         38.7
             Kg Chnang         551.2        45.9      660.6        64.0       19.8         39.4
             Kg speu             93.7        7.8      111.2        10.7       18.6         37.7
             Kg Thom           905.6        75.5     1066.4      103.1        17.8         36.6
             Koh Kong            60.9        5.1        71.3        6.9       17.1         35.0
             Kratie            252.1          21      310.2        30.1       23.0         43.4
             Prey Veng         164.6        13.7      206.9        20.1       25.7         46.8
             Pursat            319.5        26.6      375.8        36.3       17.6         36.4
             Siemreap         1385.3       115.4     1646.0      159.3        18.8         38.0
             Svay Rieng        374.8        31.2      444.0        42.9       18.5         37.6
             Takeo               266        22.2      315.5        30.5       18.6         37.6




Financial Sustainability of FWUC

One FWUC was selected from each of the 15 project-related provinces for financial analysis,
based on actual data in 2004 and projected data for 2010. The annual incomes of FWUC (water
charges and other incomes) and the annual expenses for O&M of FWUCs (salaries, routing repair
and overhaul) were calculated. The depreciation of the works under FWUCs was not considered.


The following chart shows the comparison of annual income per ha, annual O&M expenses with
overhaul per ha, and annual O&M expense without overhaul per ha for the 15 FWUCs in 2004.
The annual income of all the FWUCs was far from sufficient to cover the annual O&M expenses
with overhaul, and two of them were not even able to cover O&M expenses without overhaul,
which shows that all the FWUCs developed under the project are not financially sustainable at
present.




                                                  - 21 -

                                              Financial Analysis on FWUC Sustainability
                                                                      Actual Data in 2004
           30.0



           25.0



           20.0



           15.0
    US$/ha

           10.0



            5.0



            0.0


                 Dach       Am
                          Ta       OKlei      Hor       Res.      Res.     Roung               Polder       Chrum    loung                 Keo      Res.       Res.

            Thnol                        Preak                                   OKranhak                         Lam        Kanthor
                     Preak                       Pournil    Krabei     Phum                                                          Prasat
                                                                                        Kandaol      Traseck                                  OSmach
                                                        Tram                                                           Boeung                           Sampoch


                 Total Income for FWUCs                 O&M Expenses Inclusive of Overhaul
                                                                                Subprojects                       O&M Expenses Exclusive Overhaul




The following table shows the increase of agricultural production with increase of inputs on
agricultural extension in future years. It was assumed that the seed quality is improved and its
quantity increases slightly, fertilizer increases significantly in the future years and management in
the field is improved (e.g., adopting irrigation scheduling, etc.). As a result, the paddy yield
increases from the current level of 3,000 kg per ha to 5,850 kg per ha within four years and keeps
the same yield after the 4th year.

                                Without Extension                                      With Extension
           Items                         now                           1st             2nd                   3rd          4th-20th
                                         kg/ha                        kg/ha          kg/ha                  kg/ha          kg/ha
(1) Paddy Rice                           3000                         3713            4425                  5138            5850
(2) Seed                                  200                         206              213                   219             225
(3) Fertilizer                            100                         263              425                   588             750


The following chart shows that by introducing agricultural extension from now until 2010, the
annual income of the FWUCs in 2010 increases significantly and is sufficient to cover the annual
O&M expenses with overhaul, except for four FWUCs with their annual income slightly lower
than the O&M expenses with overhaul. This shows that with agricultural extension for four years
from now on, most of the FWUCs developed under the project are going to be financially
sustainable.




                                                                             - 22 -

                                         Fina ncial Analysis on FWUC Sustaina bility
                                                       Actua l Da ta in 2010(New )

     30




     25




     20




     15
      US$/ha

     10




            5




            0
              T hnol Preak Ta O Kl ei PreakH or Pournil  Tram    P hum    O    Kandaol T raseck  Lam   B oeung  Prasat O Smac h Sampoch
              Dach     Am                       R es.   K rabei  Roung Kranhak Polder  C hrum   loung  K anthor  K eo    Res.    Res.
                                                         R es.

                Total Income for FWUCs          O&M Expenses Inclusive of Overhaul
                                                                    Subprojects               O&M Expenses Exclusive Overhaul



In order for the FWUCs to be sustainable or self-financed within five years (by 2010), the annual
income of each FWUC should cover the annual O&M expenses with overhaul as shown in the
chart above. The sustainability of FWUCs depends upon the following requirement: to increase
farmer incomes in the first five years to ensure that farmers could afford to pay water charges to
FWUCs (FWUC could then have sufficient income to cover the O&M expenses with overhaul by
2010). Specifically, the average annual income of FWUCs should be increased from US$7.6 per
ha in 2004 to US$19.4 per ha in 2010. In this regard, availability of agricultural extension
services is crucial as the only way to help increase farmer incomes, which should be available for
all FWUCs developed under this project. The important role of the agricultural extension services
as an integral part of the improved irrigation system should be strongly emphasized, given the
poor integration of extension and irrigation which resulted in low returns to irrigation
investments. To ensure the financial sustainability of the FWUCs developed under the project,
MOWRAM has prepared a detailed O&M plan which makes the necessary and urgent funds
available for overhaul of the irrigation systems rehabilitated under the project. Most importantly,
MOWRAM and MAFF should cooperate with each other to make the agricultural extension
services available for the FWUCs as soon as possible.

Given the irrigation works were just rehabilitated and may not need overhaul during the first 3-4
years, the ordinary O&M without overhaul should be sufficient in most of the new or rehabilitated
irrigation schemes. However, the funds to be used for overhaul should be collected annually the
sooner the better to be ready for the overhaul when it is needed.

Conclusions

With restoration of critical facilities (national roads, rural infrastructure, flood control and
irrigation, schools), the economic benefits of the project are substantial and relate to various



                                                                      - 23 -

aspects of social and economic development reflected by: (a) increased yields of farm products
through irrigation components, which play the crucial role of ensuring food security for many
rural poor; (b) FWUCs play an important role in daily management and maintenance of the
irrigation and flood control facilities rehabilitated under the project to ensure sustainable operation
and management of these facilities. However, for long-run sustainability, the agricultural
extension services should be available for all FWUCs as soon as possible; (c) increased farm-gate
prices and improved access to market, which improve the poor's income from agricultural
production; (d) increased non-farm employment and income-generation activities in the project
areas; and (e) improved access to social services and education. These multiple-dimensional
changes will contribute greatly to the reduction of poverty and provide the basis for long-term and
sustainable social and economic development in the project areas.




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Preparation/Appraisal
              01/2001                13     IRRIGATION SPEC.(2)
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (2)
                                            ECONOMIST(1)
                                            RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPEC.(2)
                                            LEGAL ASPECTS(1)
                                            SOCAIL ASPECTS(1)
                                            EDUCATION SPEC.(1)
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT(1)
                                            PROJECT MANAGEMENT (2)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/2001                  4    PROCUMENT SPEC.(1)
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANGEMENT SPEC. (1)
                                            LEGAL ASPECTS (1)
                                            PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)



 Supervision
                                                                             S               S
              05/2001                  7                                     S               S
                                            PROCUMENT SPEC.(1)
                                            FINANCIAL MANGEMENT
                                            SPEC. (1)
                                            SOCAIL SPEC.(1)
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
                                            WATER RESOURCES SPEC.(1)
                                            RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
                                            SPEC. (1)
                                            PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
              10/2001                  3    IRRIGATION SPEC. (1)             S               S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPEC.(1)
                                            PROJECT MANGEMENT
                                            SPEC.(1)
              05/2002                  7    PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)           S               S
                                            EDUCATION SPEC.(1)
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPEC(1)
                                            IRRIGATION SPEC.(1)




                                             - 25 -

                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC(1)
                                           RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
                                           SPEC.(1)
                                           ARCHITECT(1)
               02/2003                 7   PROJECT MANAGEMENT(1)              S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC.(1)
                                           TRANSPORTATION SPEC(1)
                                           IRRIGATION SEPC.(1)
                                           ECOLOGIST(1)
               02/2004                 8   PROJECT MANAGEMENT(1)              S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC.(2)
                                           TRANSPORTATION SPEC.(1)
                                           EDUCATION SPEC. (1)
                                           IRRIGATION SPEC. (1)
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           SPEC.(1)
               10/2004                 9   PROCUREMENT SPEC.(2)               S    S
                                           IRRIGATION SPEC. (1)
                                           TRANSPORTATION SPEC.(1)
                                           OPERATION OFFICER(2)
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           SPEC.(1)
                                           SOCIAL SPEC.(1)
                                           ECONOMIST(1)

 ICR
               05/2005                5     IRRIGATION SPEC. (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC.(1)
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT SPEC.(1)
                                            ECONOMIST(1)
                                            SOCIAL SPEC.(1)
               11/2005                1     IRRIGATION SPEC. (1)              S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Preparation/Appraisal
  Appraisal/Negotiation                30.00                        235.63
  Supervision                          88.90                        255.28
  ICR                                   5.33                           5.13
  Total                              124.23                         496.04




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Formation and fostering of
FWUCs
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

·    Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
·    Consolidated Borrower's ICR by CPMU
·    ICR for National Primary and Secondary Roads Component by MPWT
·    ICR for Rural Infrastructure Component by RMD
·    ICR for Flood Control and Irrigation Component by MOWRAM
·    ICR for Primary and Secondary Schools Component by MOEYS
·    O&M Plan by MPWT
·    O&M Plan by RMD
·    O&M Plan by MOWRAM
·    O&M Plan by MOEYS
·    Flood Mitigation Study Report by MOWRAM




                                           - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Social and Poverty Impact Assessment


                                           A. Introduction


1.      The Cambodia Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project (FERP), was prepared in 2001,
was designed to address the serious impacts and damages caused by the 2000 floods. The main
objective of the project was to rehabilitate economic and social infrastructures including national
primary and secondary roads, rural infrastructure, flood control and irrigation schemes, and
primary and secondary schools. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$40.6 million
with US$35 million being financed by IDA.

2.      The Credit was approved in May 2001, and became effective in June 2001. The actual
project implementation began in later 2001, and by the end of March 2005 the physical investment
of four components was basically completed with all planned targets achieved. They included
rehabilitation of four sections of national roads with 249 kilometers, 110 sections of rural roads
with 567.4 kilometers, 77 bridges and 466 culverts, 33 flood control and irrigation schemes. This
benefited 41,969 ha of farmland, and 376 primary and secondary schools with 1,459 new
classrooms and 33 existing classrooms, benefiting 174,500 students.

3.      These rehabilitated facilities not only restored their basic functions to prior flood disaster
level but also created employment opportunities and brought economic and social benefits to
affected communities which contributed to economic development and poverty reduction in the
project areas. This annex assesses the social and poverty impacts of these project activities, and is
based on available data and selected surveys conducted by project sponsors or consultants during
project planning and implementation.

B.      Project Scope at Appraisal

4.      The FERP consisted of four physical components plus the project coordination and
management component. The physical components were:
(1)     The rehabilitation of damaged sections of national primary and secondary roads (about
259km along NR3, 31, 33, and 61 and other road infrastructure) with a total of US$12.3 million
equivalent, representing 30 percent of total project costs;
(2)     The rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, predominantly all-weather rural roads (about
730km, 45 bridges and 300 culverts) with a total cost of US$8.1 million, representing 20 percent
of total project cost;
(3)     The rehabilitation of flood control and irrigation systems (89 schemes covering a total of
about 57,000 irrigated hectares) with a total cost of US$9.3 million, representing about 23
percent of total project cost; and
(4)     The rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools and the provision of school furniture
and equipment (for a total of about 3,100 class rooms) with a total cost of US$9.4 million,
representing about 24 percent of total project cost.




                                                 - 30 -

C.      Distribution of Project Components

5.      In a social and poverty assessment, one important task is to identify project areas and
project beneficiaries for four different components. However, due to the emergency nature of the
project, no social assessment was conducted during project preparation. Only for the flood
control and irrigation component, a brief social economic survey was carried out based on a small
sample household survey during the preparation of each sub-project. Therefore, in order to
develop a basic social economic profile of project beneficiaries, the first step is to define project
areas for each component based on the different nature and characteristics of physical
components.

Project Areas

6.      The project area refers to the areas directly impacted and benefited. For the education
component, the project area for each school sub-project refers to the geographical or
administrative area where the school serves or where its primary and secondary students come
from. For the flood control and irrigation component, the project area of each sub-project refers
to the areas or administrative units directly benefited by the project either in terms of irrigation or
flood protection. For both the national road component and rural infrastructure component, the
project area of each sub-project refers to the areas or administrative units located along the
proposed road alignments. Based on information collected by project implementation agencies,
the project areas for four different components have been identified.

Project Beneficiaries

7.      The project beneficiaries refer to those people who reside within the defined geographical
areas or administrative units. For the national road component and rural infrastructure
component, the benefited populations are those from districts along the alignments. Although for
the rural infrastructure component. the population from affected communes might be a better
estimate of project beneficiaries, there were no such data available. For the flood control and
irrigation component, the beneficiaries refer to those who receive either irrigation benefit or flood
protection from proposed sub-projects; and for the education component the beneficiaries will be
those living in the project areas and having their children go to the project schools. Based on such
criteria and information provided by project implementation agencies, a preliminary estimate of
project beneficiaries for the four components was made.

8.      For the national road components, the project area is defined as those communes, districts
and provinces located along the selected national roads. Based on the information provided by
MPWT, four national roads pass through 65 communes, 16 districts and 7 provinces or
municipalities. Assuming that the total population of the concerned districts would directly benefit
from the rehabilitation of these four national roads, the project would benefit a total of 258,000
households and 1.3 million people (Table 1). Since those national roads will benefit a wide area
along the alignment, such assumption seems to be appropriate. In addition, the number of people
from benefited communes is not available. Table 2 provides project beneficiaries for four road



                                                 - 31 -

sub-projects.

                Table 1: Project Beneficiaries by District for National Road Component
    Provinces               District             Road            No. of             Total            No. of
                                                Number       Households for    Population for      communes
                                                                District           District
 Kampong Cham               Batheay                61           17,020             87,183             1
   Kampong Speu             Bor Set                3            21,239             107,935            2
   Kampong Speu           Kong Pisey               3            18,938             95,946             8
      Kampot             Angkor Chay               31           14,842             71,859             6
      Kampot                Chhouk                 3            15,925             78,100             5
      Kampot              Dong Tong                3             9,992             49,612             2
      Kampot            Kampong Baay             3, 33           5,991             32,265             3
      Kampot           Kampong Trach             31, 33         15,925             82,179             5
      Kampot                Kampot               3, 33          16,803             87,298             9
      Kampot              Touk Meas                31           16,812             80,713             4
      Kandal            Kandal Steung              3            16,103             75,499             3
      Kandal             Phonhea Leou              61           17,288             90,159             1
 Kep Municipality     Damnak Chang Eu              33            3,330             18,067             3
    Phnom Penh              Dangkor                3            16,800             85,536             4
       Takeo                 Bati                  3            22,403             112,175            1
       Takeo               Tram Kok              3, 31          28,644             142,485            8
       Total                   16                               258,055          1,297,011            65
Source: PMO from Ministry of Public Works and Transport.

           Table 2: Project Beneficiaries by Different Roads for National Road Component
No. of NR      Provinces      District          No. of         Total        No. of       Percent of   Length
                                            Households      Population    communes         Total       (km)
                                            for District    for District
    61            2              2             34,308        177,342           2           3.08%         16
     3            4             10             172,838       866,851          45          69.23%        136
    31            2              4             76,223        377,236          23          35.38%         55
    33            2              4             42,049        219,809          20          30.77%         42
  Total *         7             16             258,055       1,297,011        65         100.00%        249
Note: The total number of provinces, districts and communes does not include those overlap ones.
Source: PMO from Ministry of Public Works and Transport.

9.      For the flood control and irrigation component, by the end of March 2005 a total of 33
irrigation or flood control schemes had been implemented. They are located in 30 districts and 15
provinces. According to the statistics from implementation agency from MOWRM, the 33
irrigation and flood control works would directly provide flood protection and irrigation for
42,882 ha of farmland, including 21.8 percent dry season farmland, and 78.2 percent of wet
season farmland. They would benefit a total of 33,706 families and 204,694 individuals from 355
villages and 82 different communes (Table 3). Here, the number of benefited families, population
and villages are based on detail estimate of the amount of benefited farmland.


10.     For the rural infrastructure component, a total of 110 sub-projects were completed,


                                                       - 32 -

including 79 sections of rural roads, with 567.44 kilometers, averaging 5.16 kilometers per each
sub-project. The rehabilitated rural roads are located mainly in flood affected areas, specifically in
46 districts from 20 provinces or municipalities. Based on the information provided by Ministry of
Rural Development (MRD), the rehabilitation of these rural roads directly benefited 226,541
households and 1.98 million of population in 162 communes and 1,032 villages (Table 4). The
numbers of directly benefited households and individuals were provided by MRD. It is not clear
whether these figures were based on the total population from 1,032 benefited villages or the total
population from 162 benefited communes. The average family size is 8.7 persons, which is
significantly larger than district average (5.2 persons). If using total population from relevant
districts, the numbers of total benefited households and population would be 679,777 and 3.52
million respectively.

                           Table 3: Project Beneficiaries of the Irrigation Component
 No.       Sub-Project        Province         District        No of  No of   HHS    Population  Irrigated
                                                            Commune   Village                   Farmland ha
  1        Pournil Res.       Kg Cham     Tboung Khmum          1       3      309      835         123
  2       Chumnum Pol         Kg Cham          Memut            1       3      530     2650         790
  3      Chitock Irrigation   Kg Cham       Ponhea Krek         1       2      429     2105         155
  4        Preak Ta Am       Battambang     Moung Rosey         2       7      898     4490        1790
  5     Phum Klong Polder     Koh Kong      Botum Sakor         2       4     1924     10363        232
  6       Kandaol Polder      Koh Kong      Peam Chor           1       2      145      738         166
  7      Boeung Kanthor         Pursat         Bakan            1       8     2371     6555        2290
  8        Kampang Res          Purast         Bakan            2      11     2008     10040        858
  9           Takoy          Kg Chhnang       Chul Kiri         5      10      492     1959        1603
  10         Trey Po.        Kg Chhnang       Chul Kiri         3       3      152      935         115
  11     Tram Krabei Res.    Kg Chnang        Chul Kiri         1       1      997     4322         723
  12        Phnum Voir        Kg Cham       Poung Toeuk         2       6      444      756         373
  13         O Krasar         Kg Cham         O Krasar          2       2      604     3020         469
  14          O Klei           Kampot          Chhouk           1       3      443      756         457
  15       M Lech Res.         Kampot        Chum Kiri          1       4     1294     6234        2639
  16   Kampong Kronhoung       Kampot     Kampong Trach         3       8      997     4985         325
  17       Sampoch Res.         Takeo           Baty            2       4     1145      680         213
  18      Pich sar Polder       Takeo        Koh Andet          9      78      684     37962       8872
  19     Koh kandaol Res        Takeo        Koh Andet          3      17     1183     6267        1057
  20      Thom Ney Res          Takeo       Sam Roung           2       9      425     2150         412
  21        Tonlop Res          Takeo        Chum Kiri          4      15     4776     32134       2136
  22       O Smach Res.      Svay Rieng     Svay Chrum          3       8     1303     6515        1466
  23        Sre thmey           Kratie        Chloung           1       2      296     1480         208
  24      Traseck Chrum         Kratie      Preak Prosop        1       2      95       570         124
  25       Po Borey Res.      Prey Veng     Preah Sdach         3      11     1402     7226         412
  26        Koh Check         Prey Veng     Sithor Kandal       1       2      220     1244         414
  27        Lam loung         Prey Veng    Kampong Leav         3       4      405     1950         245
  28      Boeung Chakay       Prey Veng     Preak Prosop        3       7      317     1473         234
  29        Preak Hor          Kandal        Ta Khmav           1       2     1020     4821         271
  30        Prasat Keo         Siemreap         Pouk            9      66     2476     12380       10367
  31        Thnol Dach        B M Chey      Thmor Pouk          1       3     1352     6760         825
  32        O Kranhak         Kg Thom         San Dan           2      11      568     2840        1530
  33       Phum Roung          Kg speu      Chba Morn           5      37     2002     17499        988
              Total              15              30            82      355    33,706  204,694     42,882
Source: PMO of Ministry of Water Resources




                                                         - 33 -

               Table 4: Project Beneficiaries for the Rural Infrastructure Component
No.      Province       No. of    No      Length    No. of       No.   of  Number     Population
                        Distric   Roads   Km        Commune      Villages  of
                        t                                                  Families
1    Banteay                2        5     41.33        11         208      31,819     191,027
     Meanchey
2   Battambang              2        3     24.00        4           14      11,711     664,168
3   Kampong Cham            3        4     21.95        12         107      13,413     68,992
4   Kg Chhnang              1        4      20.70       7           19       3,120     13,222
5   Kampong Speu            3        3     20.30        5           19       5,878     94,989
6   Kampong Thom            2        2     12.50        6           78       8,856     48,600
7   Kampot                  2        3     12.90        6           13       3,362     15,099
8   Kandal                  5       11     50.10        25         159      34,723     148,123
9   Koh Kong                1        1      10.00       2            4       1,591      8,602
10 Kratie                   4       10     80.20        15          55      23,256     120,898
11 Pailin                   1        1      15.00       0            0        n.a.     20,229
12 Phnom Penh               3        7     32.70        11          30      25,020     195,221
13 Preah Vihea              1        1       9.00       0            0       1,168      6,625
14 Prey Veng                2        3     19.16        8           21       2,685     13,553
15 Pursat                   3        5     49.35        14          43       3,625     24,207
16 Rattanakiri              1        2      23.35       4           10       2,140     57,000
17 Siem Reap                3        3     35.00        8          112      22,497     137,030
18 Sihanouk Ville           2        2     25.90        4           10       2,887     15,337
19 Svay Rieng               1        1      18.50       5           19       1,805     10,833
20 Takeo                    4        8     45.50        15         110      26,985     121,586
           Total           46       79     567.44      162        1,031     226,541   1,975,341
Source: PMO of Ministry of Rural Development.



11.     For the education component, according to the information from the PMO from at the
MOEYS, 376 schools were rehabilitated, which included the construction of 1,495 new
classrooms and repairs for 33 classrooms, which directly benefited 179,645 students from these
schools. Assuming each family has only one student with five family members, a total of 179,645
families and 898,225 persons would be benefited from school rehabilitation. Most of the 376
schools are located in the flood affected area, covering the 71 districts in 10 provinces. The total
population for 71 districts is 1 million households and 5.3 million people. Assuming each
commune includes only one project school, and each school serves at least 2 villages, at least 376
communes and 1,128 villages would benefit from school rehabilitation projects. Given the fact
that each school will only serve those villages nearby, the figure of 179,645 families and 898,225
persons in project areas seems to be a more suitable estimate for the beneficiaries of the education
component, even though this might slightly underestimate total population in project areas. Since
not all households have school age children, such estimate dose not include those families without
school students.

12.     In summary, the four project components with rehabilitation of national and provincial
roads, rural roads, irrigation and flood protection facilities, and school buildings would benefit



                                                 - 34 -

2,771 villages, 682 communes, in 116 districts and 20 provinces The total number of benefited
districts from four components was 163, with 47 of them being overlapped among different
project components. They account for 83 percent of total provinces, 63 percent of total districts,
and 42 percent of total communes in Cambodia. The total number of project beneficiaries would
amount to 1.15 million households and 5.9 million persons, accounting for 36.4 percent and 43.5
percent of national totals. The FERP covers a wide geographical area and benefits a large portion
of provinces, districts and population (Table 6).

                            Table 5: Project Beneficiaries for School Component
 No.     Province                   No. of District No. of School           Total      Total HH in         Total
                                                                        Enrollment           PA        Population in
                                                                                                           PA
   1     Banteay Meanchey                  7                50             18,626          18,626         93,130
   2     Battambang                        11               56             20,347          20,347         101,735
   3     Kampong Cham                       6               33             18,654          18,654         93,270
   4     Kampong Chhnang                    7               41             11,714          11,714         58,570
   5     Kampong Speu                       7               29             21,402          21,402         107,010
   6     Kampong Thom                       7               45             10,421          10,421         52,105
   7     Kandal                             9               54             45,053          45,053         225,265
   8     Kratie                             5               28              7,202          7,202          36,010
   9     Phnom Penh                         2                2              1,287          1,287           6,435
   10    Takeo                             10               40             24,939          24,939         124,695
                   Total                   71               378            179,645        179,645         898,225
Source: PMO of Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports.

                Table 6: Summary of Project Beneficiaries for Four Project Components
 Project Component        Province     District     Commune         Villages     Households     Population
    National Road              7           16            65           264*        258,055        1,297,011
   Flood Control &            15           30            82           355          33,706        204,694 *
       Irrigation
  Rural Infrastructure        20           46           162          1,031        679,777        3,517,330
        School                10           71           376          1,128        179,645          898,225
         Total                20          116           685          2,514       1,151,183       5,917,260
    National Total            24          183           1,609        13,406      3,164,435       13,607,069
         Percent            83.3%       63.4%          42.6%         18.8%         36.4%           43.5%
Note: (1) Those * are directly beneficiaries. The others are total population from benefited districts.
      (2) Number of benefited people for irrigation component is based on families and population from irrigated
areas.
      (3) Number of communes and villages for school component was estimated based on assumption that each
         commune would include one project school and each school would at least benefit three villages.
      (4) The estimated direct beneficiaries for rural road component are 226,541 households and 1.98 million
people.
      (5) The estimated direct beneficiaries for school component are 898,225 persons assuming 5 persons per
family
          for each benefited student. The total benefited students are 179,645.
(6)      The total number of households was based average family size (4.3) and total population of 13.6 million.




                                                        - 35 -

D.      Social Economic Profile of Project Beneficiaries

National Poverty Situation

13.     Cambodia ranks 121st out of 162 countries in the 2001 Human Development Report.
Approximately 36 percent of Cambodia's population falls below the poverty line. The rural
population has substantially lower social indicators than the urban population, and poverty is
widely distributed through out the country. Since Cambodia's reentry into the international
community in 1991, the country has made significant advances in both human and economic
terms. Since 1993, GDP has grown 40 percent and the country has developed a vibrant and
growing export industry. This has led to a reduction in poverty and an increase in human
development. In spite of such progress, poverty incidence remains at a relatively high level.
Recognizing that poverty is multi-dimensional, the government is using a consumption-based
poverty line based on the daily consumption of 2,100 calories or US$14 per person per month.
Following the adopted poverty line, the poverty incidence for the whole country is still quite high,
estimated at 36.1 percent in 2002 with 11.9 percent for Phnom Penh Municipal Area, 30 percent
for other urban areas, and 43 percent for most rural areas. Most of poverty incidence figures came
from Estimation of Poverty Rates at Commune-Level in Cambodia, which was prepared by the
Ministry of Planning and the United Nations World Food Program.

Poverty Conditions in Project Areas

14.     The FERP covers a relatively wide area of the country, which accounts for 83 percent of
total provinces and 63 percent of total districts in the country. Due to project selection criteria
(aiming at the flood impacted areas and relatively poor communities) the poverty incidence for the
project area of four components was 39.9 percent, which was 10.5 percent higher than national
average (Table 7). Project beneficiaries tended to be relatively poor people from rural
communities. The poverty incidence was highest for the flood control and irrigation component,
which was 44.3 percent, followed by the schools component with 39 percent, and national road
and rural infrastructure components with 38.4 percent, respectively.
           Table 7: Comparison of Poverty Incidence in Project Areas of Four Components
     Locations          National Average     National Road       Irrigation          Rural              School
                                                                                Infrastructure
    Phnom Penh               11.9%               23.9%               n.a.            16.8%              19.6%
    Other Urban              30.0%               27.3%             20.5%             35.5%              34.9%
       Rural                 43.0%               40.0%             45.4%             39.0%              40.2%
      Average                36.1%               38.4%             44.3%             38.4%              39.0%
Note:   For four project components, poverty incidence is based on poverty incidence for the project districts,
including
        districts under Phnom Penh, other urban areas, and other rural areas.
Source: The Ministry of Planning and the United Nations World Food Program, Estimation of Poverty Rates at
        Commune-Level in Cambodia, 2002.


15.     This poverty incidence was based on average figures from project districts. The actual
poverty ratio seems to be higher among those actual project beneficiaries. According to a small
sample survey from 10 sub-projects under the irrigation component, the people in poverty



                                                     - 36 -

accounted for 65 to 70 percent of total beneficiaries, followed by 18 to 25 percent of medium
farmers and 5 to 12 percent of rich farmers. The average monthly income among sample
households under these 10 sub-projects was only US$12 per person before the project, lower than
the national poverty line of US$14 per person per month.

Social and Economic Profile of Affected People

16.     Cambodia is a predominantly agrarian society with agriculture accounting for 39 percent
of GDP. At least 70 percent of the rural population directly depends on agriculture for their
livelihood. The sector has an important role to play in reducing rural poverty, meeting the
expected population growth, and improving nutrition requirements. Agricultural productivity
remains low compared with that in the other Southeast Asian countries with similar agro-climate
conditions. It is constrained by soil fertility, limited access to farm inputs (particularly quality seed
material, fertilizers, and chemicals), the uncertainty of rainfall and the frequent occurrence of
droughts and flooding, the inability to manage extreme water flows, and a weak agricultural
extension service that limits farmer exposure to and adoption of improved agricultural techniques.
Furthermore, the poor rural roads network results in high transport costs, restricted access to
markets, market information, and credit, and generally lower farm gate prices for farmers. Rice,
the staple crop of Cambodia, covers about 90 percent of the 2.6 million ha cropped area,
contributing 46 percent of agricultural output and providing 70 percent of nutrition intake. In
average to good years, Cambodia is considered barely self-sufficient in rice, but this is only true
nationally and sufficiency at provincial level varies considerably. In 2001, 13 out of 24 provinces
reported a deficit. Many rural households, especially in the northwest region, continued to suffer
rice deficits for up to 6 months of the year.

17.     Although no systematic baseline survey was conducted for the four project components,
various secondary survey data were collected to develop a general social economic profile of the
affected people. They included small sample household survey for individual irrigation schemes,
social economic surveys conducted in preparing the resettlement action plans for the same
national roads, and a socio-economic impact study for similar rural roads under TRIP-Phase III
Program. The social economic conditions of project beneficiaries were quite representative of
most rural communities in Cambodia.

18.     The family size tends to be large, with more than 50 percent of families having more than
five members. For example, the average family size was 8.7 persons for beneficiaries under the
rural infrastructure component and 6.1 persons under the irrigation component. These figures
confirm the general trend of poorer households, which are bigger in size than the national average
(4.3 members ­ National Statistics, 2003).

19.     The education background among project beneficiaries was relatively low. More than 60
percent of male and 70 percent of female farmers never attended school or had any formal
education of at least a year. Among those who attended some school are those with ages between
20 and 30 years old. However, the percentage of children attending school shows a significant
increase after the improvement of rural infrastructure.




                                                   - 37 -

20.     A majority of rural people rely on agriculture as their main source of income and most of
them own their farmland, which was obtained by distribution from the authorities. Although the
size of land holding varies among different project areas, the average land holding was relatively
small. It was 1.63 ha per family, or 0.27 ha per person under the irrigation component. (N.B.
removing one special case with 15 ha, the average land holding became 1.33 ha per family or 0.22
ha per person). Based on the small sample household survey, there were 24 percent of families
with per capita land holding below 0.1 ha, 30 percent with per capita land holding between 0.1
and 0.2 ha, 18 percent with per capita land holding between 0.2 and 0.3 ha, and 28 percent with
per capita land holding above 0.3 ha.

21.     There has been a clear and consistent stratification within the villages into three general
groups based on a small survey under the irrigation component. The "poor" farmers, who
generally own no land or a small amount of land less than 0.1 ha, own few if any large livestock
(buffalo or cattle) or other assets, and who are short of food for periods ranging from 3-6 months
per year; "medium" farmers who generally own between 1.0-2.0 ha of land, at least two large
livestock sufficient for draught power and some electrical/mechanical equipment, and who only
suffer food shortages during bad years; and "rich" farmers who own more than 2 ha of land, have
several large livestock, often are becoming mechanized in their farming and have motorcycles and
other assets.

22.     The average yield of rice, particularly before irrigation facilities were rehabilitated, was
relatively low, ranging from 1.37 ton per ha for wet season crops and 1.98 ton per ha for dry
season crops. Given the average annual food consumption requirement of 266 kg per person, and
average yields before rehabilitation, at least 0.19 ha of wet season cultivated land or 0.13 ha of
dry season cultivated land would be required in order to meet basic food security. Based on
existing limited land holding with 54 percent having less than 0.19 ha of farmland, it is not
surprising to see that over 50 percent of families had food shortage, ranging from 10 percent to
70 percent; and food shortage often lasted for 4.3 months, ranging from 2 to 8 months. Such
shortage became very acute during drought or flooding years.

23.     The relatively poor condition among project beneficiaries was also reflected by the annual
income level. Based on the same sample survey under the irrigation component, the average per
capita income was US$143, which was 15 percent less than the national poverty line with US$14
per person per month or US$168 per year. Similar income levels were also reported in project
areas of the rural road component with per capita monthly income being only US$10 in 2002. The
income figure for rural road component is based on Social Economic Impact Study of Roads
Constructed during TRIP-Phase III, October 2002 ­ April 2004. This means that a considerable
proportion of project beneficiaries are under the national poverty line. Among the total income,
planting accounted for more than 56 percent, animal husbandry accounted for 22 percent, and
various non-land based activities, such as daily labor and small business, accounted for 22 percent.




                                                 - 38 -

Flood Impacts and the Objective of the Project

24.     A large proportion of the population is clustered around the poverty line, indicating a
potential for a significant increase in the incidence of poverty when the country is hit by disasters
such as the 2000 floods, thought to be the worst in 40 years. The rivers around Phnom Penh were
well above emergency levels for the entire month of September and a large part of October. While
breaches in the dike protecting Phnom Penh were avoided and the capital city was saved from
serious flood damages , the record high level of the river systems and unusually long floods
seriously damaged Cambodia's infrastructure, causing extensive damages to crops and livestock,
and caused people extensive suffering as a result of displacement, food shortage, interruption of
economic livelihood and disease. It is reported that 347 people died and a total of 760,000
families representing more than 3.4 million people were affected, with more than 84,000 families
evacuated and approximately 7,200 houses destroyed.

25.     The total direct cost of damages from the floods was estimated by the government as
US$161 million, which underestimated the actual cost because of the exclusion of many indirect
costs. In terms of economic losses, the greatest damage was to agriculture with US$71 million. Of
this, US$62 million of the losses was in rice damage covering 600,000 ha of paddy, of which
350,000 ha were reported to have been destroyed completely. In addition, an estimated US$9
million was lost in damage to 47,000 ha of subsidiary crops, and a loss of 2,300 oxen/buffaloes
and 1,620 pigs. The national rice deficit for 2001 was around 44,000 tons. The impact on poverty
was significant as the majority of people in rural areas are living below the poverty line.

26.     The second most heavily damaged sector was the national and provincial transport
network where damage was estimated at US$64 million. In addition, substantial damage, was
confirmed in several important sectors, including flood control and irrigation systems, the
education sector, rural infrastructure (mainly rural roads) and the health sector. School
enrollments substantially decreased as many schools had to close for several weeks. The overall
impact of the floods reduced GDP growth by 1.0 percent from the government growth estimate
of 5.5 percent.

E.      Social and Poverty Benefits for the Project

Methodology
27.     The project physical components were implemented by agencies from four different
ministries. They are MPWT for National and Provincial Road Component, MRD for Rural
Infrastructure Component, MWRM for Flood Control and Irrigation Component, and MOEYS
for School Rehabilitation Component. In preparing project implementation completion reports, all
four agencies collected some project benefits data. Most of them were economic indicators, such
as traffic count information for the national road component and the rural infrastructure
component, irrigated farmland area for the irrigation component, and enrollment of students for
the school component. Although these indicators could demonstrate broad social and economic
benefits brought by different project components, they are not able to demonstrate social and
poverty benefits to the project beneficiaries. Such benefits could only be reflected through a social



                                                 - 39 -

and economic survey among project beneficiaries.

28.     Unfortunately, due to the emergency nature of the project, no project benefit monitoring
and evaluation system had been established during the project implementation. Facing such
constraint, a limited scope of survey among project beneficiaries was proposed and carried out in
order to have a better understanding of the social and poverty impacts of the project. The limited
scope of the social assessment was based on a combination of various participatory rural appraisal
techniques with different methods adopted for different project components. They include a key
informants interviews, a focus group discussions and a sample household survey. In terms of key
informant interviews, they varied among different project components such as commune officials,
village chiefs, shop owners and bus drivers for road projects, school principals and community
leaders for the education component, and representatives of farmer water user committees for
irrigation component.

National Road Component
29.     Four national roads were completed rehabilitated under the national road component.. The
alignments of these four national roads cover 7 provinces, 15 districts and 64 communes,
benefiting a large number of families and individuals. The completion of these sub-projects greatly
improved transport conditions along these national roads and related road networks. In terms of
benefit monitoring, the only available information in the current ICR report is traffic count among
these four roads. Table 10 and Table 11 provided traffic count before (2001) and after the project
(2005) conducted by the WB-PIU2 from MPWT. According to the traffic counts between 2001
and 2005, the traffic volume has increased considerably after rehabilitation of national roads. The
high volume of traffic increase for NR 31, 33, and 61 is because those three roads were extremely
difficult to travel prior to the rehabilitation.




                                                 - 40 -

              Table 10: Traffic Count Data on Project Roads (Vehicles Per Day in 2001)
 Road      NMT                                        MT                                   Total
           Animal   Motor-   Motor-    Car,   Light    Medium   Medium    Heavy     Large
           Carts     cycles   Cycles   Jeep,  Truck     Truck     Bus     Trucks     Bus
            and                 &      Pick-
          Bicycles            towed     up,
                               cart    Truck
 NR 3      1,676     3,731      n/a                   816                       180        6,403
 NR 31      n/a       n/a       n/a     24     29         12       10        20       -      95
 NR 33      n/a       n/a       n/a                           352                           352
 NR 61      n/a       n/a       n/a     26     23         18       49        18      0      134
 Total                                                                                     6,984



Source: WB-PIU2, MPWT
Note: NMT = non-motorized transport; MT = motorized transport.

              Table 11: Traffic Count Data on Project Roads (Vehicles Per Day in 2005)
           NMT                                         MT

           Animal            Motor-    Car,

 Road      Carts    Motor-    Cycles   Jeep,  Light    Medium   Medium      Heavy    Large     Total
            and      cycles     &      Pick-  Truck     Truck     Bus       Trucks     Bus
          Bicycles            towed     up,
                               cart    Truck
 NR 3      1,222     3,822     362     1,080   456       208       204       365       13      7,732
 NR 31     1,303     1,699      29      347    80         55       38        195       12      3,758
 NR 33      395      1,846     103      492    105        53       10         85       12      3,101
 NR 61      23        329       0       52     50         29       11         78        0      572
 Total     2,943     7,696     494     1,971   691       345       263       723       37     15,163



Source: WB-PIU2, MPWT
Note: NMT = non-motorized transport; MT = motorized transport.


30.     According to interviews among key stakeholders, such as local villagers, community
officials, bus and truck drivers and small shoppers, along with increase of traffic volume, the
rehabilitated roads have brought considerable benefits to their daily lives. They include:

Rural Infrastructure Component

31.     The rehabilitation of rural roads has brought considerable benefits to local communities
and individuals, ranging from easy access to the market and social facilities to lower transport
cost.

32.     The first benefit is to assist Cambodia to repair and restore damaged rural infrastructure.
Most these rehabilitated roads have been surfaced with locally-available laterite and compacted to
the defined standard. This has improved the road condition to all-year­round with access to
market towns and the primary national road network. Through implementation of these rural



                                                - 41 -

infrastructures, the institutional capacity of 20 Participating Provincial Departments of Rural
Infrastructure (PDRDs) has been improved remarkably, although there is room for further
improvement. The successful implementation of these projects also indicated that the local
construction contractors have the capability of carrying out construction and rehabilitation of
local roads. Bridges and culverts have also been built by small contractors to acceptable
standards.

33.      The second benefit is to provide direct income-enhancing opportunities in economically
depressed communities through labor­intensive construction and maintenance. Many rural road
construction activities, such as clearing a narrow right of way through villages, tree and grass
planting along roads, roadside drainage and maintaining completed earth-works before spraying
laterite, as well as small-scale civil works generated local employment. Future maintenance of
rehabilitated roads is expected to create additional employment, albeit on a much smaller scale.
These employment opportunities provided cash incomes for local farmers.

34.      Other employment and income generation accrued to local traders (roadside shops and
traveling traders). During construction of local roads, the roadside shops experienced an increase
in turnover and profit with sale to the construction workers, averaging 24 percent. After
completion of road construction, even though turnover and profit were lower than during
construction, they are still higher than before the project. The traveling traders interviewed were
mainly sellers of food and drinks to the project workers. About 65 percent were female. All of
them came from nearby villages and most of them had been in business before the road
construction started. Based on selected interviews, small traders experienced about 14 percent
increase their turnover and profit during road rehabilitation.

35.      The third benefit was to restore rural road conditions to pre-flood levels among relative
poor communities. Depending on the damage caused by the floods, the access ability of rural
roads was reduced considerably, causing complete stoppage of vehicles and a change to slower
and more expensive means of transport. The direct consequence was the difficult to bring farm
products to the market which led to lower prices for local farm products and higher prices of
essential commodities. The restoration of access ability to pre-flood level has already begun to
reverse these adverse effects, reflected in increased traffic volume in the rehabilitated roads and a
shift to cheaper and faster mode of transport.

36.      Table 12 provides the result of traffic count survey before and after the implementation of
rural roads, based on a survey among a sample of rehabilitated roads in 20 provinces. According
to the survey, the traffic volume in general has grown by about 27 percent among completed rural
roads. The rapid increase of traffic volume and change of transport mode indirectly indicated
increasing economic activities in the project areas.




                                                  - 42 -

                         Table 12: Traffic Growth Rate for Rural Roads

                               Before Project           After Project
                             Total
       Description         Count in    Average   Total Count     Average      Change
                           Surveyed     Count    in Surveyed    Count Per

                            Roads      Per Road     Roads         Road

   1. Oxcart                 653          29         714            29        -0.5%
   2. Bicycle                6,392        315        6,005         281        -10.9%
   3. Motorbike             17,955        543       24,110         778        43.5%
   4. Motor-trailer          947          39         1,249          53        35.5%
   5. Car                    1,115        27         1,822          43        58.2%
   6. Light truck            652          19         1,327          36        88.6%
   7. Four Wheel Truck       855          22         1,260          34        57.2%
   8. Six Wheel Truck        601          13         946            22        63.4%
           Total            29,170       1,007      37,433        1,276       26.7%



Source: WB PMO of Ministry of Rural Development.

37.     Although the results of the supplemental survey for the rural infrastructure component
was not available during the preparation of this report, based on the household survey and
analysis from the similar rural road projects, the rehabilitation of rural roads brought a range of
changes on social and economic aspects in the rural communities which closely related with
increasing traffic volumes on the upgraded roads. On the one hand, there is an impressive increase
in the numbers of children attending school in the study area. Access to clean water has also
improved considerably, as well as an extensive use of the improved roads for the sale of
agricultural products. The rehabilitation of rural roads has improved the overall living situation of
the villages in all areas. The number of household assets, the sale of agricultural produce and
average household incomes have all increased in the project areas. Discussions with local villagers
show that villages are now better organized and more able to deal with the daily problems by
themselves. The construction of rural roads has had an overall impact on the development in the
areas. Traders now visit the area to buy farm products, shops have been opened along the roads
and farmers have better access to health clinic centers. The project areas have been opened up
with improved roads, and villages have increased opportunities to benefit from improved access
and different services and facilities.




                                                - 43 -

Flood Control and Irrigation Component

38.     There are 33 irrigation schemes completed under the flood control and irrigation
component, which provide irrigation or flood protection benefits to 42,882 ha of farmland in 355
villages, 82 communes, 30 districts and 15 provinces. A total of 33,706 families and 204,694
individuals will benefit from improved irrigation and flood protection. The potential benefited
farmland according to the project design would be 47,959 ha. In other words, the actual irrigated
farmland is about 90 percent of total design capacity. During the construction of the irrigation
sub-projects, 33 FWUCs were set up with 602 water user groups. In setting up each FWUC, a set
of baseline information was collected based on five sample households, which covered basic social
economic background, demographic profile, farmland production status before the irrigation
scheme. Such baseline information was collected for all 33 sub-projects.

39.     The sub-projects selected for rehabilitation were generally in areas previously identified as
having extreme poverty. The effect of the floods in 2000 and probably some years of deferred
maintenance resulted in farmers losing the ability to plant sufficient crops to obtain food for their
families. As a result there were reports of a need for food subsidies and continuous support. The
rehabilitation of the irrigation and flood control schemes not only provided water supply for
irrigated rice during the dry season and some supplementary irrigation during wet season, but also
provided protection to ensure that farmers can produce crops without risks of floods. The
successful implementation of these irrigation and flood control schemes has significantly improved
the economic and social conditions in the sub-project areas. The direct benefit of irrigation
rehabilitation was the increase of both irrigated areas and average yield in the project areas. On
average, the irrigated area increased by 24 percent with 28 percent for wet season crop and 23
percent for dry season crops. Yield increased by 40 percent with 26 percent for wet season crops
and 50 percent for dry season crops. Such change directly contributed to the rise of incomes
among project beneficiaries.

40.     The project beneficiary groups generally consisted of 65-70 percent "poor" farmers, 18-25
percent "medium" farmers and 5-12 percent rich farmers. For the poor farmers, the project has
essentially been a "food security" project that has reduced or eliminated the amount of time they
are short of grain. According to survey among focus groups in selected sub-projects, the
percentage of families with grain shortage was reduced by more than 50 percent, from 51 percent
before project to only 22 percent after rehabilitation, and the length of shortfall was also reduced
by half, from average 4.3 months to average 2.3 months. In addition, the available irrigation water
also provided them with alternative sources of food through catching aquatic animals (fish, snails,
small mollusks) and edible plants while improving their domestic and drinking water supply. For
the "medium" and "rich" farmers, the project has eliminated any food shortage periods and
produced a surplus of rice, some of which is sold, reduced large livestock mortality and provided
additional sources of protein and income generation. According to the survey, the proportion of
families having enough grain was increased from only 22 percent before the project to 76 percent
after the project, and the percent of families selling surplus grain was increased from 23 percent to
77 percent.

41.     The sub-projects were in all cases examined considered to be beneficial, even where


                                                 - 44 -

problems were noted by farmers. The increases in the rice yields varied between 0.5-1.0 ton/ha
and more areas were brought into production, or double-cropped, than before. The nursery crops
were able to be put in on time so the growing season was not delayed and there were fewer losses
from drought or flooding. Additional garden crops were grown, more fish were caught, additional
food sources grown or gathered within or near the reservoirs, and livestock health was generally
improved (although this is not the case in 2005 when epidemics and drought have killed many
animals). The sub-projects provided better road access in all cases, protected against flooding,
brought saline soils back into production and formed what in many places are the first farmer
organizations.

42.     Clearly the benefits of the project will accrue to all members of families which include
women and children, but evaluation of the benefits has not been carried out. One indication of
improvement in the status of women in the project areas is that quite a few women were elected
as part of the FWUCs or Farmer Water User Groups. However, since women carry out most of
the labor intensive activities in rice production, they need to have a larger role in the management
of the sub-projects. Some emphasis has been given to increase the number of women, but this may
only occur during the second election of office bearers, when the farmers recognize the need for
fairer representation of women on the committees.

43.     In conclusion, according to the supplementary socio-economic survey, the flood control
and irrigation component of the FERP has achieved far more than the initial estimated rates of
return and can be considered a success in terms of economic benefits and farmer satisfaction. It
appears that the primary benefit of the project is increased food security for the poorest farmers in
the areas who comprise at least two-thirds of the project beneficiaries. The benefiting farmers who
are better off will likely form a focal point for economic development in the area providing
employment, models for increasing production and diversification and a market for goods and
services that will increase the overall economy in the rural areas.

School Component

44.     Under the school component, there are 378 schools, which benefited from reconstruction
of new school buildings and repairs of existing school buildings (5 schools). The rehabilitation
was carried out in six phases. They include the completion of 1,492 classrooms, with 1,459 new
classrooms and 33 existing ones, and has directly benefited 179,645 students in 378 communes
from 71 districts and 10 provinces. The number of benefited communes is estimated, based on the
assumption that each benefited commune only includes one project school. In terms of the number
of benefited population in local villages, it could also be estimated based on the number of
enrolled students: assuming each family has 4.5 persons including one student, the total benefited
population would be 808,403 persons.

45.     The rehabilitation of school buildings provided direct benefits to the students by reducing
their safety risks and encouraging more participation. One direct indication of such benefit is the
increase in enrollment. Based on benefit monitoring of the first three phases with 183 schools, the
student enrollment increased from 63,554 students before school rehabilitation to 78,321 students
after the school rehabilitation. The percent of girl students increased from 45 percent to 46
percent. However, for the Phase 4 to the Phase 6 of 193 schools, since the projects were


                                                  - 45 -

completed in 2004, no benefit monitoring has been conducted. Following the ICR mission, a
supplemental survey was carried out based on a small sample of schools completed in the last
three phases. According to this survey, student enrollment increased by 6 percent after school
rehabilitation. Since these schools were completed only in 2004, the enrollment might continue to
increase in the next few years.

46.     The findings of the Benefit Monitoring Survey can be summarizes as follows:

·       The parents, teachers, village chiefs and commune chiefs were, as a whole, very positive
about the school rehabilitation and reported an improved learning environment for students
leading to a better future for their children. Students found the buildings spacious, comfortable
and very strong. With better locations, many students do not need to travel very far and students
can go to school alone without parents accompanying them. Teachers found teaching more
enjoyable. The classrooms were more secure because of the grill windows. There was more wall
space to put up teaching materials. One commune chief even said that the school building was one
of the best quality buildings he had seen and was an asset to the community. During construction,
many of the local people found jobs as laborers.
·       Significant increases in student numbers were reported across the entire project, since
most students need less time to go to school. There was less absenteeism. Students were more
willing to go to school. In many cases, students did not have to buy bicycles to commute to
schools. The few exceptions, where student numbers dropped, were due to the construction of
additional school facilities in adjacent villages to reduce overcrowding.
·       The new school buildings also resulted in improvements in the numbers and experience of
the teachers assigned to the schools. It is noteworthy that in some schools a reduction in the
number of students repeating, presumably because of better teaching, had beneficial effects in
reducing overcrowding.
·       There was a better environment for students to study, including clean drinking water and
sanitation in the schools.
·       Parents reported that their children are better motivated to go to schools when the
buildings and environment are improved.

47.     In the process of school rehabilitation, two procurement methods were used. In the case
of national shopping, the schools were awarded to contractors/builders based on sealed bidding
amongst pre-qualified contractors. In the initial phases, the bidding process was advertised in the
local papers. Under the community contracting modality, the project signed contracts with the
Schools Support Committees (SSCs) at the standardized site-specific costs. Subsequently, SSCs
signed contracts with contractors or local builders. The SSCs were provided with some basic
training to enable them to undertake site supervision. The contractors/local builders were also
provided training to enable them to comply with the contract documents. Most agreed that
community contracting was the better procurement method, but to make it work properly more
technical training was required including the selection of experienced local builders and the
supervision of the construction. For quality construction, the training of good foremen was also
important.




                                                  - 46 -

F.      Conclusion

48.     In summary, the FERP achieved the objective of the project design. It has not only
restored the basic functions of damaged transport, irrigation and school facilities in the project
areas but also provided a solid basis for sustainable development in the project areas. Since most
of the selected sub-projects are located in relatively poor rural communities, the rehabilitation of
national and local roads, restoration of irrigation facilities and construction of new school
buildings have brought significant social and economic benefits to the rural communities. With
restoration of these critical facilities, here has seen (i) an increase yields of farm products, which
have improved food security for many rural poor; (ii) an increase in farm gate prices and improved
access to market (iii) an increase in non-farm employment and income activities in the project
areas; and (iv) improved access to social services and education. These multi-dimensional changes
will contribute to the reduction of poverty in the project areas and provide the basis for the
long-term sustainable development in the project areas.




                                                    - 47 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Comments in Detail




                                      - 48 -

- 49 -

- 50 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 31287

                                                                                                    104°                                                                                                                                      106°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LAO P.D.R.
                                                     To    Bangkok                                             THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FLOOD EMERGENCY
                                                                O T D A R    M E A N C H E Y
                                                   Bantea               Samrong                                                                                                                                                     To    Paxé                                                                                                                                                         REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                   Chhmar


14°                                                                                                                                   P R E A H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14°
                                                                                                                                      V I H E A R
       To    Bangkok                         B A N T E A Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To     Qui     Nhg'n
                                           M E A N C H E Y                                                                                        Phnom Thbeng
                        Poipet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                     Meanchey
                                                                                         S I E M    R E A P                                                                                                                S T U N G                         T R E N G                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R A T A N A K I R I                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                               Sisophon
                                                                                                A n k o r                                                                                                                                      Stung Treng                                                     Lomphat                                                                                                  RUINS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                                                   Siem Reap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                       Battambang                                          T o n l e                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M O N D U L K I R I
                           B A T T A M B A N G                                             S a p                                              K O M P O N G

                                                                                                                                                     T H O M                                                                         Mekong                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K R A T I E                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                        Kompong Thom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                 Pursat                                                                                                                                                              Kratie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Senmonorom

                                                                P U R S A T                                                                       To nle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0       25      50 Kilometers

                                                                                                                              K.Chhnang


                                                                                                                              K O M P O N G                paS                K O M P O N G                                                                                                                                                                                                                0              25                50 Miles
12°                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kompong                                                                                                                                   To    Ho    Chi    Min    City
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cham
                                                                                                                              C H H N A N G                                     C H A M                                                                                                                                                                                              12°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               100°                 105°                      110°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To    Ho     Chi    Min    City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHINA

                                                                                                                                                                                                 P R E Y
                        Krong Koh                                                                                                                                                                           V E N G
                        Kong                                                                                                                                           PHNOM PENH
                                                                                                                       Kampong
                                                                                                                              Speu                                                                     Prey Veng                                                                                      VIETNAM                                                                                   MYANMAR               LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20°
                                                                        K O H      K O N G                                                                             Takhmau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P.D.R.
                                                                                                                            K O M P O N G                                                                              S V A Y
                                                                                                                                                                         K A N D A L
                                                                                                                                S P E U                                                                                R I E N G

                                                                                                                                                                                  cassaB
                                                                                                                                                         Takeo                             ekong                             Svay Rieng

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15°              THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                                                         To    Ho    Chi    Min    City                                                                                                                                                              15°

                 G u l f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VIETNAM

                  o f                                                                                        K A M P O T                                       T A K E O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAMBODIA
              T h a i l a n d                    Sihanoukville                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phnom
                                                                                                                   Kampot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Penh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To    Ho       Chi    Min                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10°              Gulf

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                           SEA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Thailand
                                                                                             104°
                                                                                                                                            To    Ho    Chi    Min    City                                                                106°                                                                                                                                                            100°                 105°                       110°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FEBRUARY 2001

