Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3472 KH 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF  CAMBODIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 28, 2001 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3472 KH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 2001, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraph (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12. 
“Participating Country: means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section II of Resolution No. 194 
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
“Participating Countries” means collectively, all such countries”; and  
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following meanings: 
(a) “Implementing Agencies” and the acronym "IAs" mean collectively the Borrower's 
Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, Ministry of Public Works and Transport, 
Ministry of Rural Development, and Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology,  
and such term includes any successor thereto, and the term "Implementing Agency" 
and the acronym "IA" mean any one of them. 
(b) “Floods” means the floods that occurred in the Borrower’s territory from July to 
December 2000.  
(c) “MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, and such term 
includes any successor thereto.  
(d) “MOP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning, and such term includes any 
successor thereto. 
(e)   “NBC” means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower’s central bank and any 
successor thereto. 
(f)  “Operational Manual” and the acronym "OM" mean the manual referred to in 
paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement as the same may be amended from 
time to time pursuant to the provisions set forth in paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
(g)  “National Project Coordination Committee" and the acronym "NPCC” mean the 
inter-Ministerial committee referred to in paragraph 1(f) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h)   "Project Implementation Units" and the acronym "PIUs" mean collectively the 
following administrative units established and operating within the relevant IA: (A) 
PMO-MOWRAM,  Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology, (B) PIU2-
MOPWT, Ministry of Public Works and Transport, (C) PMU-MOEYS, Ministry of 
Education, Youth and Sports, and (D) PMO-MRD, Ministry of Rural Development. 
(i) 
 “Project Implementation Unit2-Ministry of Public Works and Transport” and the 
acronym “PIU2-MOPWT” mean the unit established within the Ministry of Public 
Works and Transport for the purpose of implementing activities under Part A.(1) of 
the Project.  
(j)  “Project Monitoring and Coordination Unit” and the acronym “PMCU” mean the unit 
established  within the Ministry of Planning and referred to in paragraph 1(g) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(k) “Project Management Office-Ministry of Rural Development” and the acronym 
“PMO-MRD” mean the office established within the Ministry of Rural Development 
for the purpose of implementing activities under Part A (2) of the Project. 
(l)  "Project Management Office-Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology" and the 
acronym "PMO-MOWRAM" mean the office established  within the Ministry of 
Water Resources and Meteorology  for purposes of implementing activities under 
Part A (3) of the Project
 .
 
(m) "Project Management Unit-Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport" and the acronym 
"PMU-MOEYS" mean the office established for purposes of implementing activities 
under Part A (4) of the Project
 
.
(n) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
(o) “World Bank Division” and the acronym WBD mean the division established within 
the Ministry of Economy and Finance and referred to in Section 1 (e) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.  
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million and one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 27,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.  
 (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in NBC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5  to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of  June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory  of  the Borrower; and  (iii)  in the currency specified  in  this Agreement 
for  the  
Page  6
-
5
-
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May  and November  in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
st
 and November 1
st
 , commencing May 1
st
 , 2011 and ending November 1
st
 , 2040.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1
st
,
2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 (b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  7
-
6
-
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out  Part  
A
of the Project through PIUs,  Part B of the Project through PIUs, PMCU and WBD, 
and Part C of the Project through PMCU, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, technical, 
environmental and social practices, and  shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit
 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 (b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 (iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which: 
 
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Operational Manual shall have 
been amended, suspend
ed, abrogated or waived so as to affect, in the Association’s 
opinion, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) 
of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have adopted the Operational Manual pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
have established a Financial Management System  satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement,  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Street 92, Sang Kat Wat Phnom 
 
Phnom Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile 
 
855-23-427798 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  
 Facsimile 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
By 
 
/S/  
Roland 
 
Eng 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
/S/  
Ian 
C. 
Porter 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
 
21,360,000 
85% 
 
(2) 
Goods    
1,160,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures (ex-factory 
 
cost) and 85% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally) 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
2,940,000  
100% 
 and 
training 
 
(4) 
Incremental operating costs:  
 
(a) Audits of Project Accounts 
80,000 
100% 
 (b) 
Other 
780,000 
90% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
780,000 
 
________
TOTAL 
  27,100,000 
 
========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
Page  14
-
13 - 
(b)  
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term "other incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
operating costs incurred  by  each of the PIUs, PMCU and WBD on account of (i) staff 
travel costs and allowances, (ii) maintenance of vehicles and equipment, (iii) banking 
charges, and (iv) supplies and utilities incurred as a result of  the Project. 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 5,420,000 may be 
made in respect of  Categories under categories (1), (2), (3) and (4)(a) set forth in the 
table in paragraph  1 above on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after  December 15, 2000 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) goods under contracts costing less that 
$100,000 equivalent; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (d) consultants’ services under contracts with individuals costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) training; and (f) incremental operating costs all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:  (a) rehabilitate 
economic and social infrastructure damaged by the Floods, and
 
(b) reduce the 
vulnerability of the country to f
uture flood damages by strengthening the Borrower’s 
capacity to respond to floods and other natural disasters.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Carrying out rehabilitation, reconstruction and repair of:      
(1)  national and provincial roads,  
(2) rural infrastructure, 
(3) flood control and irrigation systems, and 
(4) 
primary and secondary schools, damaged by the Floods, including the 
provision of goods and services therefor. 
Part B
:
Strengthening the PIUs, PMCU and WBD the Project management, 
implementation, coordination, monitoring and auditing of accounts 
including provision of technical assistance and equipment therefor.  
 Part C
:
Development of  a long-term strategy aimed at reducing the country 
vulnerability to floods, including provision of  technical assistance therefor. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June  30, 2004. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), subject to the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2. 
In paragraph 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating countries” and “Participating country”. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
 Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$5,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
(c) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of vehicles and 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages of no less than  $100,000 each respectively. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided for in paragraph 5, Part C of this Section, works estimated to 
cost $100,000  or more but less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured 
under contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines  
 2. 
International Shopping
Procurement of Global Positioning System and Topography Survey equipment up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed  $61,000 equivalent shall be awarded on the basis 
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
:
Goods including school  and office furniture estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $830,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from United Nations Agencies
Vehicles and office equipment may be procured from the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Office of the United Nations in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,144,000 equivalent, shall be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to written invitation.  Such invitation should 
Page  18
-
17 - 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully.    
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect 
to: (a) 
each contract for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B of this Section; (b) each contract for works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section; and (c) the first 
contract for goods and  works   procured under each component of the Project pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Part C of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.   
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), subject to the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
2. 
In paragraph 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating countries” and “Participating country”. 
Part B
:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality-and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality  Based Selection
Services for design and supervision of works under Part A of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,590,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.2 and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consulting services to: (i) assist the Borrower in carrying out the study on long-
term strategy  to reduce the country’s vulnerability to floods under Part C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract and (ii) give training for 
management staff in rural infrastructure component, estimated to cost less than $47,000 
equivalent per contract  shall be awarded to consulting firms in accordance with the 
provisions of  paragraphs 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection based on Least-Cost Selection 
Procurement of services from audit firms for Project audit up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed  $100,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services of consulting firms for the carrying out of the preparation of the 
financial management system under Part B of the Project  estimated to cost less than 
Page  20
-
19 - 
$10,000 equivalent per cont
ract may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for construction design, supervision and monitoring of activities under 
Part A of the Project and services for Project management, including construction design, 
appraisal, operation, maintenance, supervision, procurement and accounting under Part B 
of the Project, not exceeding in the aggregate $1,780,000 equivalent, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants, including terms of reference, under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
 
the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall :  
(a)  
 maintain the PMO-MRD throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, headed by a qualified and experienced officer and assigned with such functions 
and responsibilities and with competent staff in adequate numbers as shall be necessary 
to carry out activities for rural infrastructure rehabilitation  under Part A (2) of the 
Project; 
(b) 
maintain PIU2-MOPWT throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, headed by a qualified and experienced officer and assigned with such functions 
and responsibilities and with competent staff in adequate numbers as shall be necessary 
to carry out activities  for national and provincial roads rehabilitation under Part A (1) of 
the Project; 
(c) 
 maintain the PMO-MOWRAM throughout the period of implementation 
of the Project, headed by a qualified and experienced officer and assigned with such 
functions and responsibilities and with competent staff in adequate numbers as shall be 
necessary to carry out activities for flood control and irrigation systems under Part A (3) 
of the Project; 
(d) 
  maintain the PMU-MOEYS throughout the period of implementation of 
the Project, headed by a qualified and experienced officer and assigned with such 
functions and responsibilities and with competent staff in adequate numbers as shall be 
necessary to carry out activities for repair of primary and secondary  schools under Part A 
(4) of the Project; 
(e) 
maintain the WBD throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, assigned with such functions and responsibilities and with competent staff in 
adequate numbers, including procurement specialist and financial management 
specialists, as shall be necessary to: (i) assist PIUs and PMCU in procurement and 
disbursement procedures, and (ii) carry out activities under Part B of the Project;  
 (f) 
maintain the NPCC throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, chaired by the Minister of Planning, and with representatives of all IAs,  with 
such functions and responsibilities and with competent staff in adequate numbers as shall 
be necessary to: (1) set  policies and guidelines for implementation and monitoring of the 
Project, (2) ensure coordination between IAs, and (3) approve the Project-related annual 
work plans and progress reports; and  
Page  23
-
22 - 
(g) maintain the PMCU throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
chaired by the Secretary of State of the MOP, with such functions and responsibilities 
and with competent staff in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to: (i) review and 
approve activities under Part A of the Project selected in accordance with the provisions 
of the OM and this Agreement, (ii) monitor and coordinate the Project implementation by 
PIUs, including procurement planning and scheduling, (iii) assist and provide guidance to 
PIUs on matters related to procurement, environmental and social aspects of the activities 
under Part A of the Project, and (iv) carry out activities under Part B and C of the Project.  
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
adopt and thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project an OM, 
satisfactory to the Association, providing for, inter alia: (i) a list of eligible activities to be  
carried out during the first year of Project implementation and eligibility criteria for 
selection  of additional activities  to be implemented thereafter, (ii) details of all 
procurement, financial management and disbursement arrangements, and other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements for implementation of activities 
under Part A of the Project, which procedures shall be consistent with those set forth in 
Article IV of this Agreement and Schedule 1 and Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, (iii) guidelines for environmental impact assessment and compensation and 
rehabilitation of people involuntarily displaced due to the taking of land and other assets 
under the Project; and indigenous peoples development plans, all in respect to the 
implementation of activities under Part A of the Project, (iv) performance indicators, 
monitoring and evaluation procedures for the Project, and (v) details and procedures for 
the preparation of all Project-related management reports pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, or waive any 
provision of the OM. 
3. 
 The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be necessary to ensure that 
activities under Part A of the Project shall be selected, approved and implemented in 
accordance with the OM.  For these purposes the Borrower shall not commence works 
for an activity or activities under Part A of the Project unless and until the environmental 
impact assessment, the involuntary resettlement plan and the indigenous development 
plan prepared pursuant to the OM, if needed, have been approved by the Association and 
the actions provided therein have been adequately implemented for the relevant activities. 
Page  24
-
23 - 
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, and referred to in the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2002, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 15, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  25
-
24 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 9,300,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
