Dot
The Wo
F'OR OMFI
Rqat No. 9856
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFOhMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2355-IND)
SEPTEMBE.R 3, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used bv recipients onli in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
At Appraisal 1983
$1 00          = Rp 970
Rp 1           =  $0.001031
Rp 1 thousand  =  $1.03
Rp I miillion   =  S$1,-31
Rp 1 billion   =  $1u31.000
Annual Averages
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
970   1,026   1,110   1,356   1,646   1,681   1,760   1,858
GLOSSARY
BPM             -  Regional Training and Learning Materials Development Center
Bidang Dikmas   -  Provincial Section of Dikmas
BPKB            -  National Resource and Training Materials Center
BP3K            -  Office of Educational Research and Development (Balitbang
Dikbud), Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
Desa            -  Village administrative unit (rural area)
Dikmas          -  Directorate of Community Education
Diklusemas      -  Private Courses Program
Diklusepora     -  Dt.General for Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports
Diktentis       -  Directorate of Technical Services
DIP             -  Central Government development budget
GOI             -  Government of Indonesia
IGP             -  Income Generating Program
IKIP            -  Secondary Teacher Training Center
Kabupaten       -  Administrative District
Kasi Dikmas     -  Dikmas District Officer
Kecamatan       -  Administrative Subdistrict
Kejar           -  Dikmas Learning Group
Kejar Paket A   -  Village Learning Program, Basic Literacy Program
Kejar Usaha     -  Village Learning Program, Income-Generating Program
Kelurahan       -  Village administrative unit (urban area)
LKMD            -  Village Resiliency Council
Magang          -  Apprenticeship Program
Menpan          -  Ministry for State Apparatus
MOEC            -  Ministry of Education and Culture
NFE             -  Nonformal Education
NGO             -  Non-Government Organization
Penilik         -  Dikmas Field Supervisor
FIU             -  Project Implementation Unit
Repelita        -  Five-Year Development Plan
S1,S2,S3        -  Higher level NFE graduates
SKB             -  District Resource and Training Center
SPEM            -  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation System
Susenas         -  Bureau of Statistics Household Survey
Tutor           -  Volunteer Instructor of nonformal education programs
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.SA..
OlIac d OewctniC.iraI
°Pko o mttwGtwtn
Opewatiotiii hIvagiai
September 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report - Indonesia
Second Nonformal Education Proiect (Loan 2355-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Indonesia Second Nonformal Education
Project (Loan 2355-IND)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office, with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USi ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORNAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2355-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ................................ ........... 0-0-..... ....... i0
Evaluation S-magry ........ ........ 0.. ^*0..0... . .....
PART I.       PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE 1.........
Project Identity  1.o..o..o  .....  ..o..o
Background        ..1  ......o....-ooo.o
Objetives tnd Desription.d                                          2
Design and Preparation .         ......       ... --.               3
Project Implementation  - ................... .                     4
Project Results.....  11
Bank Performance ........ o ........ ...o.......  . .14
Borrower Performance..          . .. .............. ..- ..         15
PART II.      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...........             16
Project Origins and Design8............ *0-0...                    17
Project Implementation.ooooo.o. .....-....... oo.     .            18
Main Findings and Lessons Learnedo.r.........o d.oo..              25
PART III.   PROFILE OF THE PROJECT .o. .... .   ............ ...... . o..... .    28
Table 3.1   Related Bank Loans in NonFormal Education .............    28
Table 3.2   Project Timetable.  ......... . .  .0 ......... O..* ....... .    28
Table 3.3   Cumulated Estimated and Actual Disbursements ..........    29
Table 3.4   Project Cost ...... ............ o....             ........... .    29
Table 3.5a  Project Financing ....... .........  ........... .e.0. .     30
Table 3.5b  Project Financing................... ........ ...........    30
Table 3.6   Allocation of Loan Proceeds  ......................                 31
Table 3.7   Project Results  ,...  0..            ........*.......... ....      32
Table 3.8   Status of Covenants.. .               .o-oooo   ...........    ...... .    33
Table 3.9a  Staff Inputs   .........             ........... .... .o.    34
Table 3.9b  Missions. .... *.. ...........   .-. .... ........... .             34
ANNEX I       Project Description ...................................            35
ANNEX II    Highlights of Project Achievements ..... 0.... ..........            36
CHART I      Organizational Structure of Dikmas Directorate .......    39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2355 IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Nonformal
Education Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2355-IND in the amount of $43.0
million was approved on February 16, 1984. The Loan Account was closed on
September 30, 1990. It is fully disbursed, with the last disbursement
reported on February 22, 1991.
The operational evaluation of this PCR was prepared by the Bank's
Population and Human Resources Division, Asia Country Department V (Parts I
and III), and the Borrower, represented by the Directorate of Community
Education (Dikmas), Directorate General for Nonformal Education, Youth and
Sports, of the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture (Part II). The
Bank carried out a final supervision mission in July 1990 and initiated
preparation of the PCR. In October 1990, the Bank carried out a completion
mission to discuss the draft of Parts I and III and provided additional
guidelines for the preparation of the project review from the Borrower's
perspective. The Borrower independently prepared and submitted to the Bank in
December 1990 a detailed report; a summary of this has been prepared by Bank
staff and incorporated as Part II of this PCR.
Additional sources used in the preparation of this report by the
Bank are the project files of the Bank including mission Back to Office
Reports, Aide-Memoires, and consultants' reports and data on disbursements.
Ficld visits undertaken during preparation of NFE III were also important in
assessing the development impacts of NFE II.



- iii -
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2355 IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Oblectives and Composition
i.        Loan 2355-IND was the Bank's second investment for nonformal
education (NFE) development in Indonesia. The first investment (Loan 1486-
IND) financed the expansion and strengthening of a delivery system for NFE,
together with a focus on development of teaching materials and training.
However, it did not effectively address the issues of program management and
quality control.   The second project was conceived to focus more on some
qualitative issues such as improved learning materials, training and
supervision of field level staff, and monitoring and evaluation.  With a loan
of $43 million and a total estimated cost of $72 million, the project
objectives were: (a) to build on the experience of the first nonformal
education project by expanding the program coverage and giving greater
emphasis to overall NFE quality improvement; (b) provide support to production
and distribution of learning materials, institutional development, staff
training in all provinces, and investments in equipment and infrastructure;
(c) provide direct assistance to basic education programs in the poorest
subdistricts of the country, and (d) improve implementation, including
introduction of better planning, monitoring and evaluation systems, and by
carrying out an applied research program.
Findings
ii.       The rapid expansion of NFE experienced under the First NonFormal
Education Project (NFE I) (over 40Z/year increase in expenditures) was
maintained under the Second NonFormal Education Project (NFE II) which
expanded coverage from 7 to 17 (planned) and eventually to 27 provinces. All
components of NFE II were completed on time and below budget. Due in part to
rupiah devaluation the project was expanded to cover all 27 provinces in the
country and available funds shifted to training and financing of the Income
Generating Program (IGP). The mid-term evaluation identified an improvement
in the attitudes and way of life of the learners groups and the community in
general in their daily life. Beneficiaries were motivated to (a) read and
listen to the radio; (b) become more active in local development programs; (c)
use more public services and facilities; and (d) generally become more
knowledgeable about the program.
iii.      However, the project impact, while satisfactory in terms of coverage
(number of persons and geographical areas covered) was not as strong as
originally expected in terms of the improvement in the quality of programs.
Specific weaknesses in quality and some of the underlying causes are noted
below. At the field level there were insufficient numbers of field workers
(peniliks) for the program work-load and they had insufficient remuneration or
logistical support. The peniliks also needed to have been more carefully



- iv -
selected and their responsiveness to local needs improved. The literacy
program (known as Paket A) achieved an effective outreach tut needed
improvement to raise operational literacy with better teaching aids and
supplementary materials. The IGP has been well received by the participants,
especially the innovative program of apprenticeship (magang) and private
courses (Diklusemas) to low income drop-outs from elementary and lower high
school. The IGP is weak, howevar, in the areas of business skills training,
market analysis and accountancy, and higher quality technical inputs are
requ2.red in these areas. The latter could be achieved by requesting and
paying for clearer, specific inputs from technical specialists in other
Ministries, from business organizations, and from NGOs. While the IGP
component was fully disbursed, the method of funding IGP groups through
Dikmas' budget was not satisfactory and not well accounted for, and
alternative methods of financing through the formal credit system are needed.
The role of the regional and district training centers needed clearer and more
effective links with Dikmas programs and the training models need to be more
effectively used and disseminated. Although there has been some progress
noted during implementation of NFE II, the following issues were also raised
during implementation of NFE I: (i) insufficient number of field workers; (ii)
the need for field workers to be more carefully selected; (iii) the need for
more teaching aids and supplementary materials; (iv) weakness of the IGP
groups in business skills training, market analysis; and (v) the need for more
technical inputs from other ministries and NGOs.
iv.       At the central level in Dikmas the management and information
systems were not designed or implemented to deal with the enormous expansion
at the field level. Moreover, there has been confusion between the existing
organizational structure and the PIU established for the project, leading to
unclear responsibilities and poor supervision of field work. This has been
particularly noticeable in the supervision monitoring and quality control
(SPEM) unit where lack of full-time personnel, poor logistics and inadequate
training and use of technical assistance resulted in a poor flow of
information from the field and impeded timely decision making. Finally,
interagency coordination was weak especially in the area of specific
agreements with cooperating Ministries and budget allocation for provincial,
district-level and field assistance.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
v.        Given the close relationship between poverty and low educational
attainment, Indonesia's nonformal education and training programs are an
effective and h43h-priority vehicle to improve both literacy and incomes of
the poorest segment of the community. The NFE programs should be continued,
but now that they are in operation throughout the country, greater attention
should be given to quality. The experience of this project strongly indicates
the need to target programs more carefully through agreed site and beneficiary
selection criteria, closer involvement of local government and community
groups, and increased reliance on financial institutions in managing funds for
income generating programs.
vi.       Several areas could be given more attention in the future.  First,
while Government expenditures on NFE have increased significantly over the
last ten years. financing is still inadequate in light of the qualitative
improvements still needed. Second, since NFE is recognized as an important



component for the Government's poverty reduction program, these programs need
to be targeted to areas where illiteracy and poverty are highest, and reach
the poor within those areas, and also recognize and emphasize the
participation of women. Strengthening Dlkmas' capacity for supervision,
monitoring and evaluation and closer involvement of local government and
commu'iity groups will be crucial to improved targeting. Thirrd in order to
improye the financial management of income generating programs, some financial
mechanisms and policies are needed to assist these poorer groups to have
access to credit through existing financial institutions. Finally, there
appears to be scope to impeove the efficiency and effectiveness of operations:
(a) improving program management and implementation systems through better
defined responsibilities and work programs, increasing the number of field
staff, or providing field support, rationalizing their work loads and areas of
operation, (b) improving the effectiveness of the regional and district
training centers, and making clear arrangements with other Ministry of
Education a;' Culture (MOEC) divisions and other Ministries on their inputs,
(c) strengthening the capacity for effective technical assistance and training
to IGPs and turning their financing over to local financial institutions, and
(d) developing a more participatory role for local authorities, specialist
staff from sectoral agvancies, business groups and non-government organizations
(NGOs).



INDONESI
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2355)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOUR
Part I   PROJECT REVIEW ROZM  BANM'S PERSPECTIVE
1   Prolct Identity
N.me of Project                   t Second Nonformal Education Project
Loan Number                       s 2355-IND
RVP Unit                          : Asia Region
Country                           s Indonesia
Sector                            : Education
Date of Loan Effectiveness        : February 16. 1984
Planned Completion Date           s March 31. 1989
Actual Completion Date            s September 30. 1990
Total Cost as Appraised           i $72 million
Total Foreign Exchange Cost       t $13.9 million
Total Cost at Closing             s $85.9 million
IBRD Loan Amount                  s $43 million
IBRD Loan Disbursed               s  $43 million
2 *  Dack&round
2.1       As a complement to the expansion of formal education, the
Government's strategy is to address the problems of illiteracy and poverty
through nonformal education (NPE) programs principally being c&aried out by
the D!,ractorate of Community Education (Dikmas) in the Ministry of Education
and Culture (WOEC). The Dikmas NFE program is aimed at school dropouts and
illiterates. b6tween the ages of 7 and 44, as well as those adults in need of
further training to become more productive citizens. The program is also
targeted at women, 50 percent of whom have no formal education and vho
represnt about 70 percent of all illiterates.  In 1985 it was estimated that
the number of persons with insufficient education to achieve full literacy was
growing by about 1.5 million persons per year. Despite the rapid expansion of
the formal system, about 20 percent of the total population above the age of
seven were still lliiterate according to the 1987 Bureau of Statistics
(Susenas) housohold surfey. Among the Indonesians above the age of 29,
illiteracy rates were even higher.
2.2       In general, NFE programs are designed to provide the target groups
opportunities for acquiring basic edu^ation, practical skills and knowledge to
supplement income, improve family health, guide and assist community
infrastructure, and foster awareness of available government services. The
main objectives of these programs are to provide a wide variety of learning
opportunities for the community and to create employment opportunitiei and
support income-generating activities. Over the past two decades. Dikmas has
developed a program of functional literacy training, called Paket A. This
comprises a package of phased self-instructional booklets for literacy.



- 2 -
numeracy and training in basic life skills. Paket A is taught through small
village-based groups with voluntoer tutors as group facilitator.
Subsequently, an income-generating program (IOP) called Kejar Usaha was
established to provide revolving funds to groups of 3 to 10 individuals as a
means of encouraging skill transfer, expanding employment and increasing
incomes of villagers.
2.3        The Bank's first full involvement in nonformal education and
training in Indonesia was through the First NonFormal Education Pro!ecr (NFE
I-Loan 1486-IND) appraised in August 1977. The principal thrust of the
project was to strengthen and expand the ongoing NFE program of Dikmas.
Components included new and renovated training centers, equipment and vehicles
for extension services, staff training, educational materials, and a small
basic education learning fund for IGP. The Bank loan comprised about 20Z of
Dikmas expenditures. The PCR for NFE I, prepared in March 1985, highlighted
the following aspects of project implementation; i) rapid expansion of
coverage of basic literacy programs from one half million to over five million
participants in 7 provinces and establishment of about 2,700 learning groups
under IGP and assisting 500 small businesses; ii) production of over 18
million basic literacy booklets and other teaching aids and; iii)
establishment of training and materials development centers (BPMs) which
trained 17.000 Dikmas staff, facilitators and tutors. While improved coverage
was impressive, weaknesses showed up on; 1) the content of learning materials
and quality of teaching; ii) weak organization and inadequate content of the
IGP, and; iii) communication monitoring and feedback between Dikmas central
staff and field units and consequent weakness in planning and management. It
was also apparent that in future, coverage needed to be ezpanded to the
poorest segmen's of the communities and to the outer islands. The
Government's growing concern for NFE during the 1980's is reflected by the
increasing share of education expenditures allocated to NFE programs. Dikmas
NFE budget had grown from $1.9 million in 1975/76 to $23 million in 1986/87,
which represented about 5 percent of the total MOEC budget in 1986/87 compared
to only 0.5 percent in 1975/76.
2.4         NPE II was identified in February 1982 during supervision of NFE
I. While there was considerable consultant assistance included under NFE I,
most of the consultant's contracts were completed by the time NFE II was
identified. NFE II was prepared between March and October 1982 almost
entirely by Dlkmas staff with advice from the preparation mission of March
1982. The appraisal mission included a general educator/mission leader,
economist, architect and NFE specialist consultant. The project design and
preparation are described below (paras 4.1 - 4.4).
3. Obiectives and Deacriution
3.1       In line with the Government's policy noted above, the project Was
designed to build on the quantitative achievement of the first NFE project
(Loan 1486-IND). by better targeting and addressing quality and mana8ement
issues by improving learning materials content and distribution, training NFE
staff, and strengthening management capability through improved planning,
supervision, monitoring and evaluations systems.



-3-
3.2       J&rs2t Ar2eg.  During preparation, Dikmas developed procedures for
selection of program location and targeting at the provincial, district and
subdistrict levels based on a combination of criteria and indicators namely:
(i) total population, (ii) population per sq km, (iii) number of illiterates,
(iv) number of school dropouts, and (v) youth unemployment rate. Ranking was
based on a number of points for each indicator. A total of 2,181 subdistrict.
in 17 provinces were selected.
3.3       Proiect Components.  In accordance with tho Loan Agreement, the
project objectives consisted of t
(a)  Expansion of Dikmas Village Learning Programs.
(b) Improvement of Dimnas Learning Materials and Staff Development
Programs.
(c) Strengthening of Management. Monitoring and Evaluation and Applied
Research.
Details are shown in Annex I.
4S   Deeign and Preparation
4.1       NPE I which was completed in June 1984. focused on expanding
delivery systems, training and teaching materials development.   The main
issues identified at the end of N1E I were the need fort (i) broader scope to
intensify and expand services to other areas not covered by the project with
particular emphasis on densely populated and poverty stricken regions; (ii)
hi_her aualitv through improved learning materials, use of participatory
learning methods, and training of personnel; and (iii) better wanapement of
the new programs with regard to horizontal integration and communications
between functional units, feedback from field personnel to decision makers.
and collection of performance data on program effectiveness and participation
rates. The main weaknesses at that time were identified as unmotivated
learners, lack of qualified staff, inadequate coordination with community
groups, and insufficient number of trained tutors.
4.2       The strategy for NFE 1I at the identification stage was to:
(i) formulate a five year plan of training personnel, clarify the role of
other agencies and expand the participation of NGOs in the implementation of
the learning program; (ii) improve learning materials and link curriculum of
the basic education program (Paket A) with some learning or occupational
skills; (iii) provide funds to income-generating or kejar usaha groups to
increase their incomes; and (iv) establish a comprehensive planning,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation system for the delivery of the program.
These strategies were correctly identified at the time. The project timing
and scope were appropriate, given the Government mandate during the Fourth
Five Year Plan (1984-1989) to increase literacy in the national language by
expanding access to basic education through the formal and nonformal education
systems and to increase access to training in income-generating skills.
4.3       Dikmas (see para 2.2) was the executing agency for this project.  It
Was responsible for its preparation and very little consultant input was used.
The project design and organizational arrangements were assisted by direct
involvement of the Bank staff. The relative effectiveness of the central PIU



-4-
organization in Jakarta and those in the project provinces in the First
Project led to Bank support for their continuation in the Second Project. 
4.4       Whilo the project was regarded at the time by both the GOI and the
Bank as straightforward and well prepared, in retrospect, given the rapid
expansion of the program, it appears that the preparation did not pay adequate
attention to the magnitude of staff capacity problems, including the
organization and funding of regional and district resource and training
centers, and adequate resources for project management and supervision. There
seemed to be too high expectatiots by both the Bank and GOI that staffing
would be secured as planned. However, there was under-staffing at all levels,
particularly of BPMs and SKBs, for most of the implementation period because
of: (a) difficulty in finding qualified candidates; (b) bureaucratic
bottlenecks in the recruitment process; (c) competition with the formal
education system for staff allocations, and (d) delay in issuing the authority
to regularize the status of regional district and NFE centers, (including
budget allocations for salaries and O&M). In addition, the project did not
originally include sufficient funds to finance project management and
supervision activities, nor were staff allocated to these functions. The
project had also established monitoring and progress indicators but they were
not fully utilized. All this led to problems in supervision, especially of
the IGPs, and difficulties in establishing a proper management information
system.
5. Proiect ImDlementation
5.1       The project was implemented over a period of six years.  Project
completion, originally expected 18 months before the Loan Closing Date, was
delayed by one year. This was due to: (a) expansion of NFE activities to
parts of the country which were not included in the original scope of the
project: (b) implementation delays in the construction of district resource
and training centers.   The loan closed on September 30, 1990.
5.2       Technical Assistance (TA) and Associated St"dies.  The project did
not benefit fully from the technical assistance component. This was due
mainly to Dikmas' decision not to engage foreign consultants and instead to
hire local non-formal education graduates as local contract staff.  While
field operations benefitted from the local staff inputs, other aspects of the
program could have benefitted from foreign expert advice, especially the
monitoring and evaluation system, learning materials development and income
generating component. There were delays in the preparation and completion of
associated studies and in the dissemination and application of results and
recommendations to improve operations in the field.
5.3        Procurement.  There were some delays in the procurement of
equipment, such as the purchase of motorcycles for the field personnel and
printing equipment, due to government restrictions on their purchase.
5.4       Proiect Cost.  The SAR estimated a total project cost of $72 million
(Rp 72 billion). Due to Rupiah devaluation (from $1.00-Rp 1,000 in 1983 to
$1.00-Rp 1,760 in 1989) and budgetary constraints, the Government contribution
to the project was reduced by 40 percent in dollar terms, from $30 million to
about $18 million. However, the overall results of the project were not



-5-
affected by the change in financing. The final project cost was $85.9 million
or Rp 130 billion.
5.5       Disbursement.   During the first two years disbursements were slow
due to insufficient government financing and delays in civil works. However,
during the remainder of project period, these improved substantially following
two loan amendments to reallocate loan proceeds. At project completion,
95 percent of the loan was disbursed. The last disbursement was made four
months after the Closing Date.
5.6       Loan Amendments.  Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement was amended twice
while Schedule 2 was amended once during implementation (see details in Part
III, Table 3.6. Allocation of Loan Proceeds). The first amendment dated July
14. 1986 reallocated $7.4 million from the categories of civil works.
equipment, consultants, and unallocated to "Employment Oriented Fund",
"Training", and a new category of "Project Management and Monitoring' was
added. The second amendment, dated August 8, 1989 further increased financing
to the Employment Oriented Training Fund, Training and Project Management and
expanded the project scope slightly. The changes in Schedule 2 were mostly
due to expansion in area coverage to include a large number of subdistricts.
Renovation and expansion of existing district training centers in the project
area was added to the project description.
Strenathe and Weaknesses: Lessons Learned
5.7       During implementation a number of strengths and weaknesses emerged:
(a) scope and coverage of the program; (b) targeting; (c) capability and
subsequent improvement of organization and management arrangements; (d)
supervision, reporting, monitoring, and evaluation (SPEM); (e) quality of
village learning programs; and, (f) inter agency linkages. These are
discussed further below.
5.8       (a)  ScoPe and Coverage.   The project achieved a substantial
expansion of scope and greater coverage than planned. It covered ten
provinces in addition to the seven provinces under the NFE I. Then during the
last two and a half years of implementation, it was expanded to selected areas
of the 10 remaining provinces in the country. The ability to expand the
project to a total of 27 provinces with the associated staffing requirements
and funding required for a nationwide operation, is one of the most impressive
successes of the NFE II.  The funding  was achieved within the dollar budget
allocated because of the increase in local currency funds due to devaluation
of the rupiah.
5.9       (b)   TarMetina.  During implementation, a number of questions were
raised with respect to the method of prioritizing target areas including inter
alia: (i) criteria and indicators used for determining poor villages and
families; (ii) criteria used for designating subdistricts as special
integrated development area of the government; (iii) criteria used for
determining the level of wv"fare of subdistricts and the percentage of poor
villages within them; (iv) the rationale for selecting the 4-9 subdistricts as
the basis for district coverage and 500 learners as the capacity of Dikmas
field supervisors to handle per year.  The shortcomings in the criteria used
resulted in ineffective targeting of areas as well as of beneficiaries who



really are in need of assistance. The Bank and the Borrower agreed that there
was a need to develop more prec'se site and beneficiary selection criteria to
address these issues.
5.10      (c)  Oreanization and Hena&ament Arrmanements.  Several issues have
been identified in the areas oft (i) management structure. (ii) staffing,
(iii) role of regional and district training and materials development centers
(BPMs/SKBs), and (iv) the role of other MOEC units - Balitbang Dikbud:
(i)       Manaaement Structure.  Despite efforts to improve organization
and project management there have been some problems concerning confusion in
the central and provincial Dikmas offices between the roles of the regular
administrative services and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) created
under the project, and village level management.
a)   Regular Structure/PIUs.  The regular administrative structure
was organized by program function (basic education, vocational
training, women's education, teaching methods, and community
resources). The PIU functions under this project were divided
by activities (technical secretariat, program development,
staff development, materials development, SPEM) which (except
SPEM) cut across program functions. This lack of integration
between the regular and the project structures has led to
undesirable results. One difficulty was that some staff in
regular positions were assigned project responsibilities along
with their regular tasks. This had led to overload of work and
lack of clarity on priorities. The second effect was lack of
continuity since PIU staff were continually rotated. This
caused some confusion and demotivation to staff who had to play
two roles at once and also hampered adequate supervision in the
field. Towards the project completion, there was a rapid
turnover of PIU project staff in order to accommodate other
personnel who wished to take advantage of the small project
incentives available. This resulted in inefficiency in some
areas of operations. Conversely, promotions took place only
within the regular administrative structure and had tended to
bypass the PIU. The reorganization which established the PIU
functions instead of the "regular" structure in the provinces
(SK 079) seems to have taken place, but still the lack of
personnel and approved positions to perform functions hampered
provincial operations. In particular the operations of the
regional and district resource and training centers (BPMs,
SKBs) were affected. They required an authorization for
staffing and routine budget from the Ministry of Manpower
Apparatus (MENPAN) which was not forthcoming until during the
last one and a half years of project implementation for the
SKBs and until February 1991 for the BPMs.
b)   Village-level Management is another focus of concern.  Because
of the amount of work to be done and in order to secure active
cooperation and participation of communities, a person
responsible at the village level was needed to direct and
coordinate village activities. Several arrangements were tried



-7-
during the project period. and individuals or groups (monitors,
took forces, facilitators) have been involved in village
activities. These appear to improve operation., but their
capabilities were not fully utilized due to inadequate guidance
and definition of responsibilities, both of which are important
factors to improve delivery of programs. The Task Force model
used by UNICEF for delivery of the Rejar Usaha program deserves
attention.   Task Forces have been organized at the district
(Kabupaten) and subdistrict (Kecamatan) levels to oversee
operations of NFE activities. In general, this has had a
positive impact and local leaders became more responsive to NFE
activities. However, there were some reports of abuse of power
by the leaders of the Task Force in the handling of Kejar Usaha
funds.
(ii) Staffing.  Four issues affect staff effectiveness:  i) selection and
allocation; ii) skills and workload; iii) staff incentives; and iv) tutor
incentives:
a)   Staff Selection and Allocation.  Most District offices have
very limited staff (about 2-7) for NFE operations including
supervising field workers (peniliks). In order to solve the
staffing problems at the district level, Dikmas hired 843 Sl
(NFE graduates) from the consultant allocation to assist in
District operations.  In general, the results have been
positive (para. 5.3, b.ii) and more than 50 percent (456) of
these graduates have become regular staff in the provincial.
and district offices. Staff hiring and promotion was another
issue. The majority of staff are former teachers and many come
from the various units of NOEC. However, staff levels are
inadequate, constrained by available GOI budget allocations.
Moreover, except for the national level staff, the
responsibility for hiring the provincial, district and
subdistrict personnel, rests with the head of the MOEC
provincial office (Kanwil) and the respective heads of the tMOEC
units at various levels who may have other staff priorities.
Consequently there may be some staff who were appointed without
the concurrence of the Director of Dikmas.
b)   Staff Skills and Workload.  There were not enough field workers
(peniliks) in relation to the number of learning groups and
their location. As the program grey, the peniliks were
handling areas and volumes beyond their capacities. At project
completion, approximately 2,972 field workers were in place and
reported to be handling more than 80 learning groups each. In
cases where additional resources such as university graduates
and assistant peniliks or intensive supervisors were used.
local programs were more effective. In addition, the peniliks
need to be more carefully selected since many of the
individuals selected were often not suited to the functions
they perform (community organization, non-formal education
programming, basic accountancy and support of micro



-8-
enterprises). They are further hampered by the lack of
logistical 6upport, and lack of motivation because of low pay.
c)   Dikmas Staff Incentives.  Although the financial incentives and
honoraria derived from project funds are supposed to be evenly
spread across Dikmas staff, it turns out that only those who
directly work in the PIU benefit from the incentives to the
project. This both leaves out those who provide qualitative
support, and encourages unnecessary turnover of PIU staff. The
incentive system should be improved overall to secure the
objectives of better performance.
d)   Tutor Incentives.  Voluntary tutors are expected to perform
their functions without any paid compensation except receiving
small amounts (Rp 25,000 each for the whole project period) to
cover operational and other incidental expenses as members of
Tutors Associations. Under this arrangement. Tutors
Associations were established in many subdistricts comprising
20-30 tutors and each association was given a fund for
production activities. This has been seen as a positive step
for the tutors. However this incentive is inadequate and the
system requires more attention. The volunteer spirit is
valuable, and should be encouraged. However, tutors play a key
role in the quality and effective delivery of learning programs
and they are expected to perform their functions on a regular
basis. The present practice of not compensating tutors does
not always induce or reinforce long-term commitment to the
tutor's role and functions.
(iii)     Role of National. Regional and District Centers
(BPKBs/BPMs/SKBs). There were no direct administrative links between these
units. Their interaction, and links with Dikmas field staff appeared to be
weak. The BPKBs and SKBs are under the Directorate of Technical Services
(Tenaga Teknis), while the BPMs established under the project, are under
Dikmas. The training models developed by the BPKBs have been used to a lesser
extent than expected.   It is not clear whether this is due to administrative
problems or because the training models were not appropriate to training
goals. At the regional/provincial level, the BPHs were also under-utilized
because they had not been transformed into regular units as agreed under the
project which would have allowed them to have regular government budget
allocations. The BPMs were supposed to carry out more than training
activities but were forced to limit their scope of activities because there
were no full time staff, with staff from the Bidang section of the province
used on a part time basis. They were also unable to carry out their planned
role in providing learning materials because of a change in government
printing regulations. There were problems associated with the SKBs during
most of the project period: (a) disagreement between Diklusepora and Menpan
on SKB staff grades; (b) it took time for Menpan to authorize new SKBs which
led to staffing and budget delay; and, (c) low priority accorded to SKB staff
by the Kanwil. However, many SKBs that have received NFE project support
(where units have full staff complement and budget), seem to have cooperated
well in training tutors and resource persons. The other directorates of the
Directorate General for Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports (Diklusepora),



-9-
in particular Directorate of Technical Services (Diktentis), Planning Unit and
Balitbang Dikbud need better and regular coordination and linkages with
Dikmas.
(iv) Role of Other MOEC Units - Balitbang Dikbud. There were also
difficulties with the role of the MOEC Research Center (BP3K-Balitbang Dikbud)
in the project. There were delays in the preparation and tryout of the
Management Information System (MIS) which had difficulty being adopted in the
field and was later on changed by Dikmas. There was also delay in the
completion and timely dissemination of the associated studies. Balitbang
Dikbud also felt that the results and recommendations of the midterm
evaluation that they carried out were not properly disseminated to all levels
of project management. The role of Balitbang Dikbud needed to have been
better defined and agreed with Dikmas in order to avoid confusion later on.
5.11      (d)  Suvervision. Monitorint and Evaluation.  This was the weakest
component of the project. The time and effort devoted to expand the program
were not matched by the monitoring of its effectiveness. In addition, lack of
feedback from the local level operations made it difficult both for Dikmas and
the Bank to evaluate the program impact, and for Dikmas to identify problems
in the field and to adjust policy, operations and support accordingly.
Specific weaknesses of SPEM includes (a) lack of full time personnel for the
SPEM units created at the central and local levels; (b) lack of arrangements
for travel and funding for regular visits and area responsibilities;
(c) communications and clear and practical guidance to the field were not
fully developed; (d) inadequate training of staff to improve skills in
monitoring and evaluation functions; (e) technical assistance has not been
used as envisioned at project appraisal. With respect to (b) above, funds
were reallocated in 1987 for program management but some of these funds were
used for SKBs until authorization was received from Menpan. In addition, the
set of indicators developed for the project (listed in the SAR) was not fully
thought and not followed up by either the Bank or Dikmas. Moreover, although
much data was collected, it was poorly presented and analyzed and did not
allow certain key questions of program effectiveness to be answered, such as
drop-out rates, age group of participants. income and occupation of the
beneficiaries. In addition, data on the gender of Kejar Usaha participants
and baseline project data did not appear to have been collected. The project
was also supposed to carry out case studies of impact issues. In general,
instructions and guidance for undertaking monitoring at the provincial level
were not properly enforced.
5.12      (e)  Oualitv of Village Learning Programs.  The key concerns
includes; (i) effectiveness of the Paket A program; (ii) effectiveness of the
income generating program (IGP), (iii) teaching aids/learning supplies; and
(iv) literacy and supplementary learning materials development:
(i) Effectiveness of the Paket A ProRrsm. The Paket A program has been
proven to be an effective means for organizing and delivering literacy
programs, and Dikmas has proven its capacity to mobilize the effort on a
national scale. However, recent evaluations showed the program to be weak in
bringing the learners to the level of literacy at which they will be able to
apply their skills in their daily lives and in maintaining literacy. This
seems to be due to inadequate resources and lack of follow up training. The



l
- 10 -
definition of literacy used in Indonesia needs to be clarified (i.e, some
areas in the country have been said to be free of illiterates by defining
literacy as only being able to read and write simple sentences in Bahasa
Indonesia, etc.). Clarification is needed because there has been a tendency
for functional literacy to be neglected and, because of poor definition, not
receive continuing support from the government and other donor agencies. In
addition, the grading of materials, and the uses and roles of books A 21 to
100 also needed to be clarified since few learners were able to take the
equivalency examination. Records show that less than 10 percent of total
learners took the examinations, although of those who did, more than
90 percent passed the examinations. Succesaful learning groups have been
those that have received intensive instruction over long periods of time and
have their literacy training closely integrated with vocational training.
Dikmas would need to strengthen its policy for adapting materials to each
level and by developing a strategy to ensure that learners continue in the
program until the point where they can use written materials independently.
(ii) Income Generatina Activities (Kelar Usaha ODerations. The two main
aspects that affected project implementation were: i) benefits and weaknesses
of IGPs, and, ii) access to credit:
a)   Benefits and weaknesses in IGP o2erations.  The IGP program has
assisted about 96,000 groups over the last six years and there
have been positive impacts on participants' economic
circumstances by their obtaining more diversified income
generating opportunities from acquired skills. The mid-term
evaluation indicated that 70-80 percent of sample groups were
reported to have increased their incomes. However, there was
an issue on effective targeting of the poor households and
women as the program may not have reached the poor because of
the emphasis placed on repayment and revolving of funds. The
main problems identified in the field by the completion mission
weret inadequate book-keeping by learners; lack of logistical
support to cope with wide coverage (e.g., peniJlks); inadequate
structured skills training and careful study o' micro-
enterprise; poor monitoring of payments and iieffective
sanctions on members who fail to repay; incomplete reporting of
activities and follow up by the peniliks; and lack of technical
inputs and advice from peniliks, or from other business
specialists. In addition training was assumed to have taken
place through   informal apprenticeship, or "learning by
doing".   The special learning materials which were supposed to
be prepared for the Kejar Usaha program were never done. There
was also insufficient information to support whether the
actual    skill transfer was achieved by the program.
b)   Arrangements for and scope of credit for IGPs.  The project has
disbursed about $19 million (compared to the US$ 8 million
originally programmed) because of an increase in area coverage
in response to demand from communities for credit for IGP
activities. Along with a change in the exchange rate of the US
dollar, this resulted in an increased in local currency
expenditure from 10.12 billion Rupiah to 34.3 billion Rupiah.



- 11 -
At appraisal these funds were intended to be provided as
loans/advances to be returned to sponsor other groups as in the
case of NFE I. During implementation, they were treated as
revolving funds with service charges. Under this arrangement
the group either repaid its obligation by directly assisting
another group in cash or in kind, or deposited their repayments
to a commercial bank as a community fund which was then
available to be relent to another group. The intention of
Dikmas in the latter approach was to help establish village
enterprises that have not experienced actual bank credit
schemes, and to help them establish a credit record for
borrowing from banks in the future.
(iii)     Teaching aids/sunplies.  The teaching aids were inadequate and
need to be periodically upgraded. There is insufficient data to confirm
whether learning supplies for groups and individuals have been replenished
within the recommended time frame of 1-2 years. This has particular
significance for the low income learners who may have dropped out because of
lack of supplies.
(iv)      Literacy and SuMDlementary Learnint Materials.  Considerable
progress was made in development of literacy materials since NFE I.
particularly in field testing and using inputs from other agencies. However,
the evaluation studies indicated the need to upgrade the content of learning
materials which should have been suited to local conditions while remaining
cost effective. Most materials were in the form of booklets and pamphlets
whereas other media such as cassettes, posters and simulation games do not
appear to have been developed or used. In addition, many of the materials
developed were limited to topics of food processing, cooking, packaging and
marketing. Few materials were available on recreational, cultural, religious,
and health information topics and a wide range of small business skills.
5.13 (f)  Inter-aaencv Linkates.  The problems of coordination, extension
services and timing of budgets from specialized agencies and local governments
were other weaknesses in the program. There was a lack of focus on the
definition of budgetary and human resource inputs and timing required from
each outside agency. This has been especially evident in the IGP program
which lacked technical inputs. These budgeting problems originated in the
lack of a specific program of activities with each Ministry. While Dikmas had
some cooperation agreements with other agencies, they tended to be implemented
in an ad hoc fashion. Moreover, the budgets required to support the advice
from the specialist ministries to the IGPs were not always prepared and
released in a timely fashion. Relationships with local governments have been
mixed. Where Dikmas established close relationships with provincial and local
governments, support for NFE activities was very positive and, in many cases
local governments contributed funds for the program. In areas where there
were no agreements with local governments, support for NFE activities has been
generally weak.
6.   Proiect Results
6.1       All of the quantitative targets of the project were achieved and, in
the case of the village learning groups, surpassed. This reflects the energy



- 12 -
and commitment of Dikmas to mobilizing and training numeroua field workers,
tutora and village facilitators who in turn mobilized operations in their
areas. Part III (tables 3.3-3.7) presents the statistical overview of
expenditures and achievements. The following project components have been
substantially implemented: (more details in Annex 2)
(a) Village Learning Programs. The Basic Education (Paket A) reached
about 820,600 groups (8.2 million learners) and exceeded the SAR
project target of 76,200 groups (762,000 learners) by 976 percent.
Dikmas decided to include program target as project target when it
expanded coverage of the project. The IGP (Emp'oyment Oriented
Training) or "Kejar Usaha" program assisted some 96.000 groups
(500,000 members) compared to 19,500 groups (98,000 members) at
appraisal, about 400 percent above target. Each IGP group has an
average of Rp 200,000 each to set up or expand their small business
operations. Innovations introduced under the project included: (a)
developing of larger Kejar Usaha groups (Kejar Usaha Induks) which
could access large amounts of capital (Rp 2-10 million per group)
from savings of the community fund; (b) initiation of an
apprenticeship program (Magang) focused on school drop-outs (7,600
persons assisted); (c) and private vocational training courses
(Diklusemas). adopted by some 270 institutions (each covering about
500 learners).
(b) Learning Materials Equivment and Staff Develooment. Office
equipment was provided for the three new BPMs and all SKBs.
Motorcycles (663) were provided to field staff but not to SKB staff,
due to delay in regularization of SKB staffing and procurement
problems. Learning materials of various types exceeded the target
by an average of about 160 percent. About half of the planned
number of staff were appointed during the project period which
accounts, in part, for some problems of quality control and
management, due to delay in the regularization of the SKB function
and staffing. However, more training was provided than expected,
especially at the provincial and district levels. Short term
overseas training was provided as planned, but not the long term
graduate (S2 and S3) NFE scholarships. With regard to consultants,
Dikmas engaged 843 recent S1 graduates as local consultants for 2
year contracts, which proved effective in field level development
and supervision. However, consultants to assist the overall program
development and management were not employed, a factor which may
have contributed to some of the weaknesses at central level (see
para. 8.1 below).
(c)  Management. Monitorina and Evaluation.   The planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation (SPEM) section of Dikmas remained very
weak since no full time personnel were employed and the technical
assistance component was not fully utilized. Five studies were
completed covering: (a) the economic and social impact of NFE
programs; (b) development of local tests for literacy and income-
generating programs; (c) self-financing models operating in local
societies; (d) the tutor incentive models practiced by other
sectors; and (e) institutional development for BPKBs and SEBE. Some



- 13 -
results of studies (d) and (e) are being applied, but the others
still nac.d further analysis and evaluation. A mid-term evaluation
of the V:oject was carried out between October 1986 and April 1987
and provided many useful recommendations. However, Balitbang Dikbud
indicated that results have not been fully evaluated and effectively
disseminated to field offices.
6.2       Immediate Impact.  The project has exceeded estimates in the number
of learning groups and individuals assisted under the basic education
(literacy) and income generating programs. It has benefitted about 8.2
million learners of whom vsmen constitute about 61 percent. It also exceeded
the planned quantity of learning materials and provided the infrastructure for
development, testing and implementation of village learning programs through
the construction and staffing of provincial and district training centers.
The mid term evaluation identified an improvement in attitudes and way of life
of the learners groups and the community in general in their daily life. The
positive impact related to: (a) general increase in literacy comprehension;
(b) skill training; (c) increased knowledge and experience in micro-enterprise
development; (d) motivation to read and listen to the radio. (e) more active
participation in local development programs; (f) greater use of public
services and facilities; and (g) increased awareness about the program.
6.3       Sustainabilitv.   The project has firmly established the PIU
functions at central and local levels, and put the training and employment of
peniliks on a regular basis and has been able to produce the necessary volume
and variety of teaching materials and deliver them to the field. To this
extent the project institutions are sustainable and benefits can continue to
be delivered to learning groups. However, the quality of the programs and
their targeting still have room for improvement. This could be achieved
through a further effort focused on: (a) better central management and
monitoring practices; (b) more active participation of other agencies, local
governments and NGOs; (c) increasing the number of peniliks or assistants and
better financial and logistical support to peniliks and tutors; and (d) better
staffing and use of resource and training centers.
6.4       Recommendations for the Future.  A close relationship exists between
poverty and low educational attainment and the large percentage of the poor
who are illiterates or who have not completed primary school. Thus, delivery
of non-formal education programs remains a priority vehicle of GOI to
eliminate illiteracy and achieve universal education. NFE I showed certain
weaknesses such as: (a) insufficient number of peniliks; (b) the need for
peniliks to be carefully selected; (c) lack of teaching aids and supplementary
materials; (d) weakness of the IGPs in business skills training. market
analysis and accountancy; and (d) lack of specific technical inputs from other
ministries and NGOs. These same weaknesses have surfaced again in NFE II.
During preparation and appraisal of the Third NonFormal Education Project (NFE
III). particular attention was paid to the above issues in the design of the
project and agreements made with the Government on its implementation.  Both
in relation to NFE III and to the whole NFE program, it will be important for
GOI to address the following areas on a consistent basis:
(a) First, while Government expenditures on NFE have increased
significantly over the last ten years, financing is still low, especially



- 14 -
in light of the qualitative improvements still needed. Therefore funding
of NmE activities should be given priority.
(e) Second, since NFE is recognized as an important component for the
Government's poverty reduction program. NFE programs need to be targeted
to areas where illiteracy and poverty incidence are its highest, and
reach the poor within those areas. Strengthening Dikmas' capacity for
supervision, monitoring and evaluation will be crucial to improved
targeting.
(d) ThIrd, in order to improve the financial management of income
generating programs, some financial mechanisms and policies are needed to
assist these groups to have access to credit either through existing
banking institutions or development of non-banking financial institutions
to reach these poorest areas.
(e) Finally, there appears to be scope to improve operational aspects of
on-going programs; (i) increasing the number of field staff and staff at
all levels, rationalizing their work loads and areas of operation,
establishing the necessary qualifications and recruitment criteria,
providing additional manpower support, and additional training where
necessary through a national staffing action plan and a master training
program; (ii) strengthening the capacity for effective technical
assistance to IGPs; (iii) improving the forms and types of literacy and
learning materials appropriate to the learning and skill development of
beneficiaries; (iv) providing additional incentives to the tutors.
village level management and community based organizations to motivate
these groups to assist in the programs; (v) defining process and impact
indicators which will clearly show the institutional and financial
performance of the programs; and (vi) developing a more participatory
role for local authorities, specialist staff from sectoral agencies,
business groups and non-government organizations (NGOs) in program
delivery.
7.  Bank Performance
7.1       The physical implementation and procurement were adequately
supervised. But the performance, quality and impact of the different programs
and the management of the operation were not scrutinized until late in project
implementation.    NFE II was very large and complex in terms of components,
dispersion of implementation and its strong grass roots orientation. it
therefore required above average supervision resources, careful supervision
plan with appropriately timed missions comprising staff with relevant
qualifications (eg. micro-enterprises, community development, credit
specialists). The attention to project impact resulted only from preparation
work for a follow-up project, not from regular supervision. Impact studies
were commissioned only as part of the preparation of the follow up project.
It is therefore important that the Bank pay particular attention to; (a)
supporting and providing a supervision action plan based on the above
considerations and; (b) to monitoring and evaluation.



- 15 -
S *orrower Performunce
8.1       In general, the project staff performed effectively in overall
project *ctivities *nd developed * number of positive innovationo such as the
apprenticeship and private courses program. A major weakness was the
government'. complicated and longthy bureaucratic procedures which made
institutional changes difficult particularly in the staffing and organization
of district and regional/provincial training centers. The decree on project
organization was not fully operationalized and resulted in a lack of qualified
staff and confusion over the permanent structure. Project monitoring and
supervision was the leact succeosful component of the program. In particular
project data was generally inadequately compiled and utilized. Cost and
budgetary data, and data to adequately monitor and evaluate performance of
learners group. were lacking in accuracy and statistically useful information.



- 16 -
PRmJmCT EEUWS PICK non oUER'w s PERSPECTIVE
Part II comprises a summary of th- main findings and recomandations from
the Completion Report prepared by tho GOI (Dikmas PCR team) and submitted to
the Bank in December, 1990 after translation and editing. The full Completion
Report ldentifloi the project achiovements. strength and weaknesses in some
detail, with supporting tables and data drawn from central office files and
collected in the provinces.



- 17 -
SECOND OUFORNiAL EDOCrTION PROJECT (LOh  2355 IRD)
fAIr I. PRWECT REVIW IE   3           IR'S  PRR CTIVE
RES1LTSO EVhIR&IO
NOW-FORMAL EDUCATIOEDIINAS II PROJECT
PROJECT OIUGINS AM) DESIGn
1.        The NhE/Dikmas II Project was the continuation of NuE/Dikmas I
Project loan 1485-ID ended in 1984. The mUP II project was supported by GOI
fund and a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) with a disbursement period of 5 years - 1984-90.
2.        The emphasis of this project Was to review the weaknesses of the
activitiss undertaken in the Nm! I and develop and expand the project areas
from 7 provinces to 17 provinces. Some 63 districts and 500 subdistricts were
selected.
3.        The NFE II was concerned to strengthen the institutional capability
of Dikmas to provide and develop nonformal education programs which would
create and expand educational opportunities. The details are as follows:
(a)  Strengthening the institutional capability of Dlkmas to improve its
capability in managing and developing the programs.
(b) Developing nonformal education so as to expand the provision of
effective and flexible out-of-school educational programs of greater
relevance to the needs and of higher quality.
(c) Creating and expanding educational opportunities which Dikmas would
direct to those who were educationally deprived and the "poorest of
the poor".
4.        The Specific Ob1ectives of the Project weres
(a)  Strengthening the management and supervision capabilities of Dikmas
through reorganization.
(b) Establishing a system of regular in-service training for Dikmas
staff.



- 18 -
(c) Creating *ystems to develop, produce and distribute better learning
materials.
(d) Providing direct funding and support to the learning activities of
the community members in the villlage through the establishment of
learning groups.
(a)  Introducing continuous monitoring and evaluation of Dikmaa program.
PCTI CT 
5.        The NPE/Dikmas II Loan 2355-IND commenced effectiveness on February
16. 1984 and ended as planned on September 30. 1990. The Mid-Term evaluation
was conducted from October 1986 to April 1987 and the monitoring and final
evaluation report indicated that the project activities have been running well
in general and the target was achieved.   During implementation, several
strengths and weaknesses were found relating to: (a) scope and coverage of
the program, (b) management, (c) coordination and cooperation with the
relevant institutions. (d) the quality of NPE/Dikmas programs. and
(e) monitoring. and evaluation (SPEM).
(a) Scope and Coverage of the Proaram
6.        The project area has been expanded to all 27 provinces. Thus the
program covered 381 subdistrict. in the previous operating area of Dikmas and
about 50 new selected subdistricts. The districts were selected on the
following criteria: (i) density of population, (ii) high percentage of
illiteracy, (ii) high number of school dropouts. (iv) high number of
unemployment, (v) absence of a Dlkmas staff responsible for carrying out
educational services. Highlights of scope and coverage includet
(a) The target of the project range from 7-44 years of age, while first
priority was the young unemployed who did not have a chance to
follow the formal education or potential elementary school dropouts.
(b) The components of the project activities covereds civil works,
equipment, learning facilities development, learning program
development, staff development and scholarship, technical assistance
and monitoring and evaluation program.
(c) Two components of the activities covering all 27 provinces include:
(i) training and (ii) equipment provision for the workshop learning
center (SKB).
(d) The Mid-Term Evaluation reported that the project activities have
shown a positive impact on the development and quality of Dlkmas
programs and this needs to be continued and disseminated. An
important outcome of the project was the integration of its
management with the Government Community Education Program (P2M)



- 19 -
started in 1986/87 which covered 27 provinces. This joint effort
increased the funding of the project.
(a) Since then the NFE II was extended throughout Indonesia by assisting
the selected subdistrict. to get funds for their activities, i.e.,
building SRBs and Learning Fund from the World Bank loan.
(b) M1bam nt
7.        Ortanization.  The National structural organization of the
Directorate of Community Education, based on Presidential Decrees numbers 44
and 45 issued in 1974. included four Sub-directorates: (a) Basic Education,
(b) Vocational Education, (c) Women's Education, and (d) Community Educational
Technology; later, a fifth was added, (e) Development of Potential Community
Resources. reflecting its major program emphasis on literacy and vocational
skills and Family Life Education.
8.        At the provincial level, the Head of Dikmas Provincial division
(Bidang Dikmas) reports to the Head of the Provincial Office of Education and
Culture. The Dlkmas provincial office is divided into three units: program
development, staff development and materials development. This functional
approach of the structure at the provincial level has been instituted in all
27 Provinces since 1975. At the District Level, the Dikmas organization chart
indicated a separate section for Community Education. It was reported that a
single person who heads a section (Kasi Dikmas) also took care of NFE
activities. At the subdistrict (Kecamatan) level, there was one position for
penilik. The penilik reports officially to the Head of the Subdistrict office
of Education and Culture, but works closely with the Dikmas officer at the
district level. The penilik, as a field supervisor, is the main link between
the villages and Dikmas. Most peniliks serve 15 to 20 villages.
9.        Proiect Management Arrangement.  During NFE I the organization of
tne Project (Ministry of Education and Culture Decree No. 89/0/77) was
integrated at the national and provincial offices by adding two functions -
the Technical Secretariat and SPEM. The experimental structure was reported
to be successful during the first project. In view of that, the
reorganization of Dikmas was disseminated to 10 additional provinces covered
by NFE II Project. On the basis of the monitoring and evaluation done by
Dikmas at national level, it was found that the arrangements at the provincial
level were better able to meet the community education needs. But towards the
end of this project, the a8reed structural change intended under the
Presidential Decree (Meupan) had not yet taken place and consequently the
development of the organization has not be fully achieved. The SPEM section
and Technical Secretariat, which exist in the provinces, are part of the
program section rather than the project section; therefore, Dikmas found it
difficult to recruit qualified and appropriate staff.
10.       Staffina.  Experience indicated that the success of the project
implementation was dependent on the ability of Dikmas field staff (penilik).
In fact, during the project the penilik was under continued pressure to meet
quantitative quotas which many feel to be excessive (more than 500 new



- 20 -
learners are supposed to be recruited by a penilik every year). Another
problem which a penilik must regularly confront is that of persuading and
recruiting volunteer tutors or finding some way to fund them when necessary.
The implied crit4 isms of the penilik should, however, be viewed in the light
of enormous day-to-day problems he/she is confronted with. In most areas they
are tremendously overloaded with work. They have many demands on their time
and few resources to work with to perform their job the way it is envisioned
by Dikmas leadership. They must answer and collaborate with not only Dikmas
hierarchy itself but with local village officials and other government
officials at Kecamatan and District level. They must attend many meetings,
represent their superiors at ceremonies, teach in various training courses
conducted by various agencies, and negotiate for funds to support the learning
activities. At the same time, they are expected to fulfil their primary tasks
of establishing, filling, monitoring and evaluating learning groups. All
peniliks under the project were supposed to have received motorcycles to
facilitate their mobility; however, due to some problems the project provided
them only during the last year of the project implementation period. It might
have some bearing on the quality of the learning programs. However, all the
500 selected subdistrict. have peniliks and some of them were very successful
in doing their work.
11.       Incentives and Renumeration.  The success or failure of Dikmas
learning groups is dependent to a great extent upon the skill and dedication
of the tutors and facilitators. Yet for these critical services Dikmas must
depend almost totally upon volunteers. In fact, during the project Dikmas has
begun to reappraise its thinking in the direction of a policy shift away from
the purely volunteer system. Incentives are given in various forms such as
(i), a reward by the local government, (ii) learning funds to the Tutor
Association (iii), credit or promotion of the teachers who teach the learning
group. In order to keep high dedication of the tutors, the Government
conducts competitions in the implementation of Kejar Paket A and provides
special rewards to winners for subdistrict, district, provincial and national
level every year.
(c) Coordination and Cooperation
12.       Coordination with various institutions has been done to improve the
quality of the program and achieve the targets effectively and efficiently.
13.       Village Level Oraanization.  At the village level, a managing team,
headed by the head of the village government (Lurah/Repala Desa), has been
established to support the Dikmas program, while an education section of the
village self-reliance program (LKMD) coordinates the team to implement the
Dikmas program in the village. The existing NGOs such as Family Welfare
(PKK), Dharma Wanita and Youth Organization (Karang Taruna) and other bodies
or such a Foundation, Church, Mosque, Arisan, RT/RW are appointed to the
organizing team to implement the programs. These organizations ultimately are
in charge of establishing and carrying out learning activities including the
recruitment of the tutors, facilitators and the learners, and providing
meeting places for learning groups. Based on the organizational structure of



- 21 -
the program an mentioned above many of the tasks of the penilik have beeu
delegated to members of the village management team. Consequently, most of
the penilik's time is used to establish *nd supervise learning programs but
the penilik could also have more time to do Istter coordination among the
teams. The tutors and facilitators are under the coordination of the
organizing teams which were usually social organizations established in the
village and are the ones who ultimately conduct the learning activities--Kejar
Paket A or Kejar Usaha.
14.       Other Cooperation.  Cooperation was undertaken with other
institutions such as the Department of Agriculture. Department of Village
Development. Department of Cooperatives and Department of Manpower.
Cooperation in the field is in the form of integrated learning group technical
assistance, even though the cooperation is limited only to technical
assistance needed by the learning groups and other relevant aspects needed for
developing package A as well as the Income-Generating activities.
15.       Some provinces gave more funds to the local government for the
implementation of Kejar Paket A whereas the seed money for the business
activities came from the project.
16.       During project implementation some models of income-generating
activities were developed and they were funded by both the project and the
Department of Home Affairs as was done in several sub-Districts in West Java
in 1984-85. In the last year of project implementation that model was
disseminated in all provinces by the Directorate General of Village
Development in an effort to strength the village economy. The NFE II has
attempted to establish cooperation between the educational program on
occupation and basic education either in an integrated way or done separately
by other government institutions or NGOs.
(d)    Qualitv of Proprams
17.       Role of National, Provincial and District Tranint Center (BPKBs/BPMs
and SKBs). The development of learning activities in the national (BPKB).
provincial/regional (BPMs) and district (SKBs) level involved developing the
learning materials and Dikmas staff, with training coordinated by Directorate
of Technical Services (Diktentis).
(a)  The administration link of Dlkmas in the national, provincial and
district level with the BPKB, BPM and SKBs is not direct but it is
done through the Director General at the national level and the Read
office of Department of Education and Culture in the provincial and
the district level.
(b) The establishment of 24 new SKB buildings, the six rehabilitated
buildings and extension of four buildings carried out by the Project
provided suitable accommodations for the working force of the SKBs
and the BPMs which were limited to developing the learning material
models and training personnel.
(c)  The carrying out of the main tasks and functions also brought about
change in the organizational structure by adding the functional and



- 22 -
professional staff in nonformal education which were able to support
the learning program services for the community.
(d) This network of BPKBs. BPMs and SKBo with Dikmas established for
operational implementation of NFE Programs will be useful in the
future.
18.       The production of instructional materials has reflected positive
achievements as well as problems:
(a) Teaching Aids
The appraisal target for equipment was 6,000 sets and 6,200 sets
have been achieved (103 percent) whereas the simulation games
planned were 64,000 sets and 78.000 sets have been produced
(121 percent of target).
If we compare this with the graduate learners of 7.8 million this
number is very small. The support expected from SKB8 (Learning
Center) is still less in extent and quality. This is caused by the
lack of both better routine budget and qualified SKB staff.
The project provided printing machines and new typewriters to SKBs
in the fourth year of project implementation. But the 24 new SKB
buildings became functional just in the beginning of fifth year
because the necessary government regulation came too late.
(b) Sugglementarv Learning Materials
Along with the provision and the development of teaching aids some
problems had to be faced because local supplementary learning
materials supposed to be produced by SKBs could not be developed.
The supplementary learning materials are still limited compared with
the number of the learning groups. The production of package A
booklets was 149 percent (47.3 million) of the target with the
addition of the President instruction fund (Inpres fund) to the
previously scheduled 34 million booklets.
Determining topics is based on the kinds of skills learned by
package A learning groups and Income Generating Learning Groups.
Therefore, the topics along the programs of recreation, culture,
religions are less developed by the project. They are presented in
the package A1-AIOO booklets.
The development or composition of the supplementary learning
materials is done along with the procedures and requirements of the
Loan Agreement which requires that before the materials are printed
ln mass quantity they must be tried out in the field. They must be
written by a select group of staff/workers who have experience using
supplementary learning materials. So they can be adjusted to the
level of the learner's reading ability. The materials developed by
such institutions as Department of Health, Department of
Agriculture, Department of Industry, Department of Social Affairs



- 23 -
etc. have been adopted and modified. This is to create coordination
during the implementation of the integrated field activities. This
needs coordination with other technical ministries.
19.       Villase Learning Programs.  The improvement of the quality of
learning is the focus of Dikmas in as much ae it is the national goal. Many
efforts have been made for package A program, income generating projects for
learning groups, teaching aids, and the development of learning materials.
(a)  Package A Learning Group
In line with the government policy that in 1992 Indonesia will be
free from illiteracy, the project served those in the age group of
7-44 years who had finished package A20. Free from illiteracy means
literacy in Latin, letters, arithmetic and Indonesian language. For
this basic education package A21-AI0 books are provided.
The implementation of Package A has been integrated with the
occupational programs for improving the quality of the learners'
life.
In this case the learners of Package A were given an active fund of
some Rp 6,000.00 per learner for starting productive activities. It
was an innovation in implementing the Kejar Paket A program.
There are 114,300 learning groups with about 1.143.000 people in the
381 selected districts who have followed the package A or
151 percent of what was planned. At the national level there are
7.8 million people who have followed the package A (113 percent of
planned target).
One proof of the success of the package A program is the receipt by
the Indonesian government of an international competitive award
organized by UNESCO for illiteracy eradication.
(b)  Income teneratint Learnine Groups (Ke1ar Usaha)
The second learning program as the main activity of NFE II project
is the implementation of Kejar Usaha. This program has assisted
about 1 million people. To enhance the quality of the learning
program the project developed some innovations, which were as
follows:
(i) Provision of larger advances than the regular Learning Fund
created: business activities with a wider targeted scope; the
possibility of creating a new and larger employment
opportunity; the possibility of a group creating its own
business and fund, and creating a new Kejar Usaha group: A
better guarantee of the continuation of the business, greater
use of supervision.
With this type of Kejar Usaha, the innovative program can be
developed in a wider scope either through business activities



- 24 -
or such programs cultivating tho dry land *nd growing sugar
cane which needed more than Rp 200,000 which was basically
given to the Kejar Usaha learning groups.
(ii) A2renticeshiD Program. The other innovation of the Kejar Usaha
program is the "apprenticeship program" which was able to give
skills training to the participants thereby creating work
opportunities. The learning center was also responsible for
finding jobs for the learners. This program has been
experimented with successfully during the project.
(iii)Keiar Usaha Diklusema. The other modified form of RKjar Usaha
is to give learning funds to vocational training institutions
conducted by NGOs, which educate the poor so they cound enter
the labor market. This has the additional benefit of helping
the institution become stronger.
The apprenticeship and Kejar Usaha Diklusemas programs are the most important
innovations that have been developed and tested during the last two years of
the project. They were very successful in helping the learners create and
find jobs. This type of program should be developed further and disseminated.
20.       Another indication of success of Kejar Usaha program was the manner
in distributing and managing the Learning Fund through the Dikmas models. The
Banks and Cooperative were tried out in some places and this needs to be
improved by training the field staff, tutors and other facilitators who are
directly involved in managing the Learning Fund.
21.       Other Comments. The training program has some weaknesses vhich
should be resolved, such as: (i) low level and inadequate bookkeeping by
learners, (ii) inadequate skills training in managing business activities,
(iii) poor monitoring of payment and sanction of members who fail to repay,
(iv) lack of technical advice from the supervisors or other business experts.
(e) Monitorinm and Evaluation (SPI_)
22.       Learning from the NFE I experience. SPEM in the NPE II project has
been focusing on collecting data which were necessary and could be analyzed
for plenning and decision-making purposes to improve future programs and speed
up the achievement of project goals. To this end. the NFE II project
developed a reliable Management Information System (HIS) to collect, process,
store and retrieve Dikmas data in faster, controlled and regular fashion. To
implement the MIS the project has provided and installed computers at
National, and three provinces (West Java, Central Java and East Java). The
software has been developed and tried in eight provinces. Tvo problems were
observeds
(a) The main problem was the ineffective Management Information System
(MIS). Three kinds of instruments have been developed and used
during the project. These caused confusion in the filling in of the
data in the field. The three instruments are: (i) the instrument
used In the Dikmas I project. (ii) the instruments whlich have been
developed together with the Information Center of Balitbang



- 25 -
Department of Education and Culture, and (iii) the instruments
which have been developed by the project together with the UNICEF
project.
(b)  The second was the difficulty of analyzing collected data to provide
detailed information or as a basis for policy decisions.
23.       In addition to, or within the framework of, development efforts
described above, SPEM also carried out its main activities as follows:
(i) Providing guidelines on SPEM aspects to be included in the
technical manual for Kejar Paket A and Kejar Usaha Programs.
(ii) Checking the correspondence, the progress in the program
implementation by provincial offices of Dikmas.
(iii) Providing feedback to provincial offices for the solution of
operational problems in the project provinces according to
suggestions and directions from the project management.
(iv) Facilitating technical meetings and/or workshops organized
annually by the project to evaluate the programs.
(v) Providing on-site technical assistance in the provinces where
such assistance Was required from Pusat (central office).
Field visits were conducted in selected locations in need of
such services.
(vi) Evaluation of program implementation through study of incoming
reports, such as quarterly, semi-annually and annual reports
and providing feedback to the provinces.
MAI  FINDIGS aND LESSONS L
24.            Findings.  The main findings and conclusions of the NFE II
project aret
(a)  the project expanded from seven provinces covered during NFE I to an
additional 10 provinces for the 500 selected sub-districts covering
all provinces. The selection of additional sub-districts used
criteria which were approved by the Bank,
(b)  the experimental organizational structure established at the
provincial offices of Dikmas, which added two sections of Monitoring
and Evaluation and Technical Secretariat to the existing sections
faced problems of lack of qualified personnel. The training
provided abroad was very useful. However, there was difficulty in
retaining the trained personnel who are often promoted easily after
the training. Hence the operation at this level remains weak,



- 26 -
(c) this project had a slow *tart up due mainly to the lack of qualified
staff at the sub-district level (peniliks). When *11 the selected
sub-districts had peniliks, they were able to catch up after initial
delays,
(d) Dikmas programs were successful in reaching the st-ted targets,
however, the employment-oriented training may have had difficulty in
reaching the poorest of the poor, partly because of pressure from
imposed quotas and partly because of lack of skills. It appears
that those who have had access were those who were fairly well off
and who were able to forego income to take up additional learning.
The poorest of the poor do not have this kind of opportunity, and
unless the learning activities will provide direct benefits they
have difficulty in participating in the learning activities,
(e) the revolving fund system could not be developed properly.
especially in the area of management and repayment of the Learning
Fund; however, the project had some useful innovations which were
fairly successfull i) apprenticeship program (magang), 1i) private
courses (Diklusemas), and the iii) Tutor Association incentive
program,
(f) The new strategy of integrating basic literacy and income generating
learning groups (the new approach of Kejar Paket A) developed by
Dikmas may solve the problems of relevance of learning activities to
the learner's needs, low motivation, and reaching the poorest
members of the coimmunity, although part of thb problem stems from
the lack of supplementary materials.
25.       Recommendations.  To improve existing operations and to develop
future programs (NFE III now under preparation) the following are the main
recommendations:
(a)  the structure of Dlkmas should be reorganized by a Presidential
Decree (Menpan). The Technical Secretariat and SPEM Sections should
be added to the present structure in order to conform to the five
components of functional groups in carrying out NPE program
activities.
(b) the strategy adopted in the utilization of the Learning Fund of
Kejar Usaha (Income-generating program) where the funds should be
revolving should have clear mechanism in distributing the fund and
the repayment system. The cooperation agreement in the handling of
learning funds, started with the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
tried in some areas, may be an alternative to solve the problem of
the Learning Funds.
(c) it may be appropriate to assign qualified NGOs the responsibility to
manage and implement the NPE programs and the Learning Funds; this
could reduce the burden on the penilik. The penilik's role could
then focus more on providing supervision and monitoring and being a
facilitator to the learning programs.



- 27 -
(d) the new structure of SKB which has been provided with functional
staff (through Menpan Decree) should support the penilik in
supervising and coordinating the implementation of the mE program
in the future. In line with the reorganization of SKB, the role of
BPMs should also be changed in order to enhance the quslity of the
NFE Program. The BPM could also become a resource center to
develops (i) models of training, (ii) local learning materials,
(iii) monitoring and evaluation, and. (iv) models of learning
programol./.
(e) Dikmas should establish clear and closer coordination with other
ministries which have similar NEE programs. The National
Coordinating Committee on Nonformal Education should be reoriented
and strengthened to coordinate the planning and implementation of
NFE programs.
(f) With regard to the government's nine (9) year compulsory education
program. Dikmas should support this program by conducting Paket B
for those who can not be accommodated in the secondary schools. The
development of the prototype of Paket B during the NFE II Project
should be continued as part of the future ENE III.
26.       Bank Supervision.  The Bank supervision once or twice a year is not
enough for a large and complicated project as the NFE II. The mission
provided beneficial impact in overcoming project related problems such as
procurement of motorcycles, construction of SKBs and BPMs, establishing
institution status of SKBs, processing of re-allocated funds. In the future
Bank supervision should be more thrn twice a year in order to strengthen the
implementation of the project.
I/As of February 1991 the BPM has been transformed into regional training and
resource centers (BPBes).



- 28 -
PART LU: PROMILE QF THE PROJECT
Table  11: RELATED SAN LOANS IN THE NOWORUAL ED4JCATION SU-SECTOR
Loan/Crodit                                        Yoer of   Amount of
Titl-                      Purpose               Approval    Lon    Status Cmmente
(US$ mln)
Ln. 1486 First Nonformal  1) Provide effective village    1177 *281       Relatively
Education         nonformal education prom!°s                     successful.
2) Improve tho quality of
nonform l program
3) Roinforce managomnt and
supervision capabiltleo.
Table 3.2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                   Date            Date            Date
Planned       Revised          Actual
Identification                                                                2182
Preparation                                                                 3-8/82
Appraisal Mission                        10/29/82                         10/29/82
Loan Negotiations                             9/83                          9/1/83
Board Approval                               12/83        11/8/83          11/8/83
Loan Signature                                                            12/16183
Loan Effectiveness                        2/17/84             3/84             3/84
Loan Closing                              9/30/90         9/30/90          9/30/90
Project Completion                        3/30/90         3/30190          9/30/90
Project Completion Report                 9/30/90                         12/30/90



Table 3.3:    CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
/a
Appraisal Estimate                             0.1          5.1    13.2    21.6    29.8                           38   42.3                43
Actual                                         0.1          1.6          8.1    17.3    23.5    33.4    40.9                               43
Actual as 2 of Estimate   0.2   31.4   61.4   80.1   79.0   88.0   97.0    100
Date of Final Disbursement: February 22, 1991.
Ia The front-end fee is about US$ 0.1 million.
I3ble        PROJCT COSTS
Project ComcLne.,t Loeo Foro gn    ToW                                          LW           or        t.         I T.    MIMI         Totl
E.gpsnoi   of ViOo.-Lovel
L@Srning Progrs.
asic Educat;c                              9.0         3.5      14,5        86.5         2.9      39.4        86.5         3.5     40.0
EiwIoyeent-orlented
Training                                4.7         2.4       7.1         -          17.1      17.1          -          16.5     16.5
Subtotal                               13.7                  21.6        8.          au        AU.    i      6Q        a&        au.5
t-proweent of Learning
Materials A Staff ODvelol  ent
Fetabli1hint of 3 Now Provincial
Centers (8P.)                           2.0          1.0      8.0         0.2          1.0       1.2         0.2         1.0       1.2
Eotabl;bhment of 24 Na District
Center. (SK15)                          7.2         2.6      10.0         0.4          2.2      2.6          0.8         2.0      2.8
Sussort to Exsating Provincial
Offic   A*SKls                          0.2          1.0      1.2         8.2         6.6      10.0         2.8          7.0      e.6
Staff  e.'loeant Program.                  7.5         2.3       9.6         2.0        10.5      12.5         1.6        11.6      18.2
Subtotal                               kLw          L.   H                LI          NJ    au L;                       ELi   auJ
Strentthenine of Manement.
Monitoring    Evaluation
Planning    Mnagement Support             0.7         0.6        1.5        0.6          1.4      2.0          0.5         0.4      0.9
Eatablieiioet of Coeguteriged
information System                      0.2         0.4       0.6         0.5         0.2       0.?         0.8         0.1       0.4
Supervi*ion and Reporting                  1.0         0.°       1           1.8         0.7       2.0         0.7          . 5      1.2
,A,pl;I Research                          0.2         0.0       0.2         0.0          0.8       0.8         0.0         0.8      0.8
Subtotal                                            LA          I         ad            II      AA           Li          Li         I
(cio  B                                ILZ         I in Co   3&t    1Ll   d4  iu      &LL   OLI    il    ia    E
Contingoncie3
Ph*91cal                                     3J3
Prie                                        136          3.7       17.5              -               -           -           -         -
Total Proiect Costs                    i*            .       Z.2L          i.7       OLL       12          ie            i       au
Front-end Fee c, Senk Loan                                 0.1       0.1         _           0.1       0.1         _           0.1       0.1
Total Financine  Required              24 4L&                 4L4 4                  iLl       JL4         i"A         ILl       DL
Note: Costo are net of teoes end dutls.. Piguroe say not add due to rounding.



- 30 -
Table 3.5at PROJECT FINANCING
Planned                Revised                 Final
Source         USS million       2     US$ million      I     US$ million      z
IBRD               43.0        60.1         43.0       49.2        43.0     100.0
Government         28.6        39.9         44.4       50.8        42.9      96.6
Total              71.6       100.0         87.4      100.0        85.9      98.0
Table 3.5b: PROJECT FINANCING
I of
Category of Expenditure                 Government   IBRD   Total /a       IBRD
-(US$ million) -------  Financing
Land Acquisition, Furniture
& Basic Education Fund                    36.5       -       36.5         8
Civil Works                                  0.6       3.0       3.6       83.5
Equipment, Consumable Materials
Learning Materials & Books                 3.2       7.0     10.2        69.0
Employment-oriented Fund                     -        20.0     20.0       100.0
Consultants, Fellowships &
Professional Fees (architectural)          -         0.7      0.7       100.0
Training, Per diem and
Travelling Allowances                      2.0      10.9     12.9        84.0
Project Management, Monitoring
and Supervision                            0.6       1.3      1.7        76.0
Total Pro1ect Cost                      42.9      42.5     85.4        50.0
Frunt-end Fee                                -         0.1      0.1       100.0
Total Financina Required                42.9      43.0     85.9        50.0
Notes: Basic Education Furnd including all provinces.



- 3'. -
Tablo 8.6: ALLOCATION OF LOAM PROCEEOS
Actual Allocatlon
Initial t.lM ontA       i      2nd A#w..         Total ODisbured
(Loan Agrnt    (July 1996)   (August 193)            (February 1991)
______ ______ _____ _______________,_ _   __S  _..____________)
-(US2 n    n 
Civil Works                       7.9              7.0             8.20             2,966,720.39
Equipmet, furniture
learning  aterials             15.6             10.a             6.60             6,994,460.66
Employmnt-orionted
Fund                            6.0             12.0            19.9             19,994,965.01
Consultants, prof.
services, followshipe           8.1              2.6             0.74               671,22J.40
Training                          6.a              6.1            10.60            10,922,668.62
Project mgmt.,
onitoring. supervision                           1.0             1.7              1,840,916 21
Fe                                0.11             0.11            0.11               107,282.00
Unallocated                       2.09             1.29            0.0                      0.0
Total Disbursed               43.0             48.0            43.0             42.976.8a e27
Undlsbursed balance cancelled
as of 02/22/91                                                                       21,618.78
Total Loan Amount                                                               43,000.000.00



- 32 -
Table 3: PROJECT RESULTS L&
Indicators                        Appraisal       Estimated at   Percent of
Estimate       Closing Date         SAR
Selected Sub-districts                 381                430          113
Basic Education Groups              76,200           820,600        1,076
(Learners)                     (762,000)        (8,200,000)
Employment -Oriented
Training Groups                  19,580             96,000          493
Apprentlceship (learners)                               7,549
Learning Materials             31,740,000         46,870,000          148
Supplementary materials       4,500,000         14,283,800          317
Audio-Visual Aid                   6,000              6,000          100
Simulation Units                 62,500             62,500          100
Staff Training Programs (staff-days)
National Level                    8,100             31,741          392
Provincial Level                114,240            266.297          233
District/Subdis. Level          594,564            558,508           94
District Centers (SKBs)                 24                 17           71
Provincial Centers (BPMs)                3                  3         100
Source:  Report on the Progress of PNF II, Nov. 1989.
La The Project is defined as follows: For physical facilities (SKBs and
BPMs), 10 provinces (B). For Basic Education, Employment-oriented
activities and Learning Materials, 17 provinces (A) + (B). for Staff
Training Programs 27 provinces (A) + (B) + (C).



- 33 -
Table 8.8: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section
of Loan
Agreeont                       Covonont                                  Status/Remarks
3.02      Employ consultants satisfactory to the        Satisfactory net for dometic
Sank.                                         consultants.  No foreign consultants
suployed.
3.03      Insure imported goods and the exclusive       No goods imported during the project.
use of all goods and services procured by
the loan.
3.04      Submit plono specification   report,          Fully mt.
contract documnts, work and procurement
schedules.
(b)   Maintain records, Bank reprosentative
visits to sites; submit regular reports.
(c)   Submit complotion report.
3.06      Land acquisition and rights required for    Completed although the land was not
construction together with proof of          acquired according to scheP;0.
acquisition.
3.06      Appoint and maintain quo ifled staff for    Not fully met especially delay In
imploentation of project In accordance       government decree for SPMs and SKb.
with agroed schedule.
3.07      Establish criteria and procedures (a) for   Fully met.
selection of subdistricts; (b) selection
of activities to be assisted by employ-
ment oriented fund end for replenishment
of such fund; and (c) for selection of
fellowships.
3.08      Not produce any learning materlsol  In        Fully mt.
mass quantity unless field-tooted and any
necessary revisions made.
3.09      Furnish annual plan and budget for            Met, however delayed few months
training as well *o for developeant           roviewed by the Bank mission.
production and distributlon cf loarning
materials. Implementation plan after
Bank reviow and comeents. Furnloh annual
progrom for study lmplementation plan.
8.10      Extend provislon of decree Of9 to cover       Fully met.  The Ministry Decree's for
all provinces in which basic learning        10 provinces under NFE II Issued In
activities included In project.              November 19QJ.
4.02      Maintain soparate *ccounts reflecting         Fully met.
projoct expendituroo, submit certified
accounts and auditor. reports.



- 34 -
Table 3.OA:   STAFF INPUTS
Activity           FY82   FY83   FY64   FY65   FY66   FY6?   FYO6   FY69   FY90   FY91    TOTAL
Preappralsal        6.2    6.8                                                                  12.6
Appraisal                 55.6    6.2                                                           60.6
Negoti*tions                     10.3                                                           10.8
Supervision                        0.9    9.6    7.1   15.0    9.0   15.6   14.8    4.1         76.6
PCR                                                                                    8.6       8.6
Other                                                                                            0.0
Total Prle2ct    6.2   61.9   16.4    9.6    7.1   16.0    9.0   15.6   14.8    7.6    162.6
Table *.U9B:   MISSIONS
Types of
Activity               Month/D          No. of   Days in    Specialty    Performance    Problems
Year           Persons   Field         /a           Status /b        /c
Appraisal              10-11/82            4                     A,B,E,N
Poet Appraisal         2/83                1                     E
Supervision  I          ll/1-11/21/64       1       20            9,              1           NA
1I       2/10-2/16/86         1        7            E,1            NA
III      9/80-10/8/86        2        12            A, E,           1           U
IV       8/6-8/12/66          1        6            A,              1           F, M
V        10/1-10/9/86         1        7            9,              1           F,
VI       2/9-2/16/67          1        7            B,              2           F, M
VII      10/10-10/20/67       1        7            8,              1           F
VIII     4/26-4/30/68         1        4            A,              2           F
IX       1/28-2/28/89        2        46            A, I            1           U
X        11/26-12/8/69        2       16            8, I            I           T, M
PCR          XI        4/90                2         C            9, I
XII      6/90                 1        4            I
XIII     10/90                1                     I
Othor
Total Project                           17       148
LA  Specialty codess A - architect, B - *conamiat, C u englieerilg educator,
D a enviroemaut, 9 - Wollowmal Education SpeclaUlst.
1 a problm-freo or minor problems, 2 a moderate probleas
t 1  ua aerial  T a technical, I - financial



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2355-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Description
Part A:     Expansion of Dikmas Village Learning Programs
(a)   Expansion of village learning programs in about 500 subdistricts
through the provision, inter alia, of learning materials,
motorcycles for the field workers (Peniliks) and funding of
employment-oriented (IGP) training activities.
(b)   Support to existing Dikmas village learning programs in about
1.994 subdistricts through the provision, inter alia. of learning
materials, motorcycles and funding of employment oriented (IGP)
training activities.
Part B:     Improvement of Dikmas Learning Materials and Staff Development
Programs
(a)   Establishment of about 3 new provincial material development and
staff training centers (BPMs).
(b)   Establishment of about 24 new district materials development and
staff training centers (SKBs), expansion of about six existing
SKBs, and renovation of about four existing SKBs.
(c)   Strengthening of existing provincial offices and SKBs through the
provision of equipment and consumable materials.
(d)   Provision of training for staff through in-country and overseas
fellowships and in-country training programs.
Part C:     Strengthenina of Management, Monitorina and Evaluation and Applied
Research
(a)   Strengthening of planning and management capabilities of Dikmas
through the provision of specialist services by foreign and local
consultants and related equipment and incremental costs.
(b)   Establishment of a computerized information system for Dikmas at
the national and provincial levels.
(c)   Strengthening supervision, reporting and evaluation at the
national, provincial, district and subdistrict levels of Dikmas,
through the provision of trained personnel, local consultants and
related incremental operating costs.
(d)   Carrying out of studies to implement a program of applied research
in nonformal community education.



- 36-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2355-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights of Proiect Achievements
(a) Village Learning Programs. The following have been achieved:
(I)  the Basic Education (Paket A) program exceeded the target.  As
of the closing date the project had reached about 820,000 (8.2
million people) in the 17 province area including some selected
areas from the remaining 10 provinces in the country.
(ii)  the Euployment Oriented Training (Kejar Usahs) program
provided assistance to kejar usaha biasa (ordinary IGP groups)
totalling 95,800 groups, each of which were given Rp 200,000 on
a revolving basis to assist their small scale business
operations. During this project, three innovations were
introduced under the employment training component; a. kejar
usaha induk (large IGP groups) have been started to act as
models for the development of other kejar usaha groups with
about 1,282 groups assisted and provided with average Rp 2
million as seed capitalfrom the savings of the community fund;
and, b. magang (apprenticeship) program for school dropouts
where the project provided an average of Rp 150,000 per
apprentice to enterprises as a means of increasing working
opportunities with about 7,549 persons assisted; and c. private
courses (Diklusems) nonformal educational centers which
provided an average of Rp 2 million each to about 270
institutions and assisted about 500 learners each.
(iii)  Other Groups/Organizations.  In addition, private associations
for the advancement of nonformal vocational education have been
promoted and encouraged. More than 20 umbrella organizatioins
at the central level and more than 17,000 institutions at the
provincial and local level have established formal links with
Dikmas and have developed more than 300 skill courses in the
field. About 40 courses have qualified for national
examinations. Incentives have been provided to about 4,000
tutor associations to increase the number of tutors and
encourage their active participation in the program. Each tutor
association received an average of Rp 750,000.
(b)  Learning Materials and Staff Development.  Under this component the
following have been achievedt
(i) Facilities (office equipment, facilities) for the three
provincial training centers (BPMs) were completed and are
operational. All the twenty four (24) district centers (SKBs)



-37 -                         ANNE II
Page 2 of 3
were established as planned. All BPMs and SKBs had been
equipped with furniture, type writers and mimeo graph machines.
Motor-cycles (663 units) were provided to field staff in 381
sub-districts, 63 districts and 10 provincial staff. The
planned delivery of motorcycles for the SKB staff was not
carried out due to problem in regularization and staffing and
increase in the price of motorcycles (Rp 1 million to Rp 2.5
million.
(ii) Learning Materials. The project reproduced and distributed
about 47 million copies (1482) of Paket A books, 14 million
(317Z) copies of supplementary learning materials and guide
books, 6,200 sets (105Z) of audio visual aids and 78,000 sets
(121Z) of simulation games.
(iii) staffingltraining. A total of 648 staff have been appointed
from the plan of 1,198 staff during the project period. This
is due to delays in the staffing of the SKBI. Staff training
closely followed the SAR proposed areas of training. The
number of individuals trained exceeded SAR expectations. At
the national level, about 31,741 staff days of training were
carried out, 3922 more than the SAR target of 8,100. At the
provincial level, about 266,297 staff days (233Z) of training
were provided from the original estimates of 114,000. At the
district/subdistrict level, 558,508 staff days were provided
which is 6? minus the SAR target of 595,000. Short term
scholarships were provided to 50 persons in various courses in
the country while 40 persons participated in the overseas
fellowships for three months in management and training in
Australia, and learning materials and monitoring and evaluation
in the Philippines. The long term scholarship for S2 and S3
graduates was not carried out. All funds for training not
carried out was shifted to local consultants.
(iv) Consultants. Foreign consultants were not engaged for the
project. Instead Dikmas recruited a total of 843 university
graduates (S1) to assist in program development, monitoring and
supervision of field activities on a contractual basis, which
averages 250 graduates per year. These graduates proved to be
very effective in assisting project activities at the local
level. A total of 48 man-month of domestic consultants for
Dikmas was also employed.
(c) Management, Monitoring & Evaluation. Under this component the
following have been accomplished;
(i) the monitoring and evaluation system was developed with
assistance from the Balitbang Dikbud. A management information
system was tested in 6 pilot areas, and four provinces were
provided with micro-computers. Training for the information
system was also carried out in 7 of the 10 project provinces.



ANI= UI
- 38-                     Page 3 of 3
Two Dikmas staff from each province received 3-month training
in computer familiarization and data entry.
(ii) a mld-tern evaluation was carried out from October 1986, to
April 1987 and provided many useful recow_endations. Five
associated studies were completed covering: a. socio-economic
impact of NFE programs: b. development of local tests for
literacy and income-generating training: c. self-financing
models available in the society; d. tutor incentive models
practiced by othpr petortR, andg 5) institutional development
of BPKB and SKBs.



- 39 -
CHART I
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2355-tND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OranlizatLonal Structuro of DiLkas
*Directorate for Nonformal Education
I     _ Cl '..s.06P ..
I    ;..u.* 6d,n. .
oI-avs General Id
c~~~~~tf                                              swaie ., o,,"win
§               l ~ _          _ _I                  
chief           I        O Cie                     Cief               I     Chief            I      Chief               I
te6sle4                   lise Ujuest.e            cggpp.uluu                PsImled                 StaCisti.
Co sss,i"  ez    2       Staff            2        gowwss             2     StalE            22
cowiietf                  ?...mope.ag      2   ~     staff   t        2     S.taff.e                StffI
m; ^td                   To'eitig of                   Au                   i   ne
staff           2         Cusgiuag.p       2       F.ie.d. CEf I. ;   '    @1 2  Idfu.ei.fo         Stafi
lP,.w".t   wt"tW                t-@|*;^ f                  ugjg"t_
4.!t,t.%v        2        Pu.;..,  ..eee                         2    ............... Uet"*           %# 
SAffl           2                                  Pat.e _t  Iou-w   2 low"s ,tE                                       2
sta#~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~rz 2u¢ it..
tat   Staft I
l~~~~~~miL    I .alim .                          l                           l      l            *|@
offla,  gm
fege%ice         I                        I                                    N ,            *
segro.:!   ~          'Wa          I       Staff coevolugUsi                   (A.~S             agaee
Totals.taff S            Totl. 51.11  6           TotaI Scuff S              Total Staff S           .I.  Stof  S



