Doummat Of
The World Ban}
FM OmCAL USE ONLY
LA). 1335- rAJ
l-put Pb. P-3659-InD
RXPOR? _bDENkO
oF TUE
PRESIDET OF Tq
IETErMIO5rR DANK }OR             ON XIDDEVELOPIIBN
TO THM
ZgCU15VE DICORS
O A
-P<#:iD zOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQY1VALT TO UB*43.0 MILION
TO TE
REPUEIC OF ZEDONESIL
POR A
SECOND NOWFORMAL EUCATION PROiIECC
October 14, 1983
Thkdoemoh m a umb 'I,uI disddmum mid q be mud by uep mg'inly . b. ..e nwe of
I  dr UCW d  ln. lb inbd   d  uW UN   whs kb dh.hhui 'Ia   W_M  tk ahddhl



CURRENC EQUIVALENTS
Currelcy unit - dosian Rupia  (Rp)
US$1             Rp 970
Rp 100     l     US$0.103
Rp 1,000    I US$1.03
Rp 1  imillin    U US$1,030.93
GOVER T OF IDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - march 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREV}IATIONIS
BP!                - Regional Materials Developmet and Staff Traing
Center
DGFLSPO            - Directorate General for Nouformal Education,
Youth and Sports
Dikmas             - Directorate of Community Education (forEerly
known as Penmas)3 Ministry of Education
GOT                - Government of Indonesia
MEC                - ministry of Education and Culture
pakets A, B and C - Basic Education Curriculum Guidelines, Dikmas
Repelita           - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III,
1979-84, Repelita IV, 1984-89)
SB          -     - District Materials Development and
Staff Training Center



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESTA
SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $43.0 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:     The project objectives would be to increase access to
nonformal education, improve the quality of nonformal
education programs, and strengthen the management
capability of the Ministry of Education's Directorate of
Community Education (Dikmas). To achieve these objectives,
the project would: (a) expand learning programs in basic
education and employment-oriented training; (b) improve
the quality of educational programs by developing
relevant learning materials and providing staff training;
and Cc) improve program implementation by introducing
better planning, monitoring and evaluation systems and an
applied research program at Dikmas.
The project would benefit about 800,000 Indonesian illi-
terates and school dropouts in 17 provinces by providing
basic education and employment-oriented skill training.
In line with the Government's stress on poverty allevia-
tion, the project is targeted to serve the poorest seg-
ments of the population. The benefits expected from the
project depend largely on the competence and commitment
of the Dikmas staff. To minimize the risk of poor qual-
ity staff, the project provides strong support in the
form of increased staff training, development of relevant
learning materials, and improved supervision, monitoring
and evaluation. In addition, studies would be conducted
under the project to analyze incentive requirements of
village level extension staff and to explore alternative
means of generating local financial support for nonformal
education activities. The possibility of misallocation
of resources of the employment-oriented training funds to
members of the village who are not necessarily in the
greatest need would be minimized by a strengthened moni-
toring system at the village level and by applying
stringent selection criteria.
Thi doCUnMnt has a resticted dstrbution and may be used by repients only n the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be discosed witPjut World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:/a                                       Local  Foreign  Total
-- ($ million)
Expansion of village-level
learning programs                 13.7     7.8    21.5
Improvement of learning materials
and staff development              16.9      7.1    24.0
Strengthening of management,
monitoring and evaluation,
and applied research                2.0      1.6     3.6
Base Cost                       32.6    16.5    49.1
Physical contingencies                3.2      1.7     4.9
Price contingencies                  13.8      3.7    17.5
Total Project Cost              49.6    21.9    71.5
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan            -        0.1     0.1
Total Financing Requirements   49.6    22.0    71.6
Financing Plan:    Bank                                  21.0    22.0    43.0
Government                           28.6     -       28.6
Total                           49.6    22.0    71.6
Estimated           Bank FY    1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Disbursements:                                 ($ million)
Annual      0.1   5.0   8.1   8.4   8.2   8.2   4.3   0.7
Cumulative  0.1   5.1  13.2  21.6  29.8  38.0  42.3  43.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4595-IND dated October 13, 1983.
/a The project would be exempt from customs duties and other taxes on
imported items. Taxes on other items would be insignificant and are
hence not included in project costs.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $43.0 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Second
Nonformal Education Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY A1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent ycar. The
latest of these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth with Lower Oil
Prices" (No. 4279-IND dated May 12, 1983) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 17, 1983. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Barckground
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation.  The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
developed system of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatera and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
on Java, which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
and the Other Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 42 p.a. The 1982 estimate of GNP per capita is $580, which places
Indonesia amongst middle income countries.12
11 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus
Estate and Smallholder Sugar Project (No. P-3634-IND), circulated under
cover of R83-264, dated August 11, 1983, and approved by the Executive
Directors on August 30, 1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 82 p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in
infrastructure, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain
producer incentives. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost
42 per annum over the past decade, and movement towards self-sufficiency in
rice. During 1971 to 1981 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth rate
(of about 14Z p.a.) from a very low base, but this has been predominantly
oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and the decline in both volume
and price of oil exports have led to a turnaround in the current account of
about $10 billion in two years, with a deficit of almost $7 billion in
1982/83, equivalent to about 82 of GNP, a level that could not be sustained
for more than a year or two. The Government responded swiftly and effec-
tively to the worsened resource situation, and, during the first half of
1983, introduced a comprehensive package of policy measures to reduce the
current account deficit. First, in January 1983, an austere 1983/84 budget
was introduced, that incorporated a sharp reduction in subsidies on oil,
fertilizer and food, and a squeeze on current expenditures. Second, on
March 30, 1983, the Rupiah was devalued by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970 to the
US dollar, without changing the full convertibility of tne currency. This
was, in part, in response to the substantial private sector capital outflow
over the previous months. Third, in May, a major rephasing of public
investment was announced, in particular of large-scale import-intensive
projects in the industrial, electric power and transport sectors.  These
measures have already ensured the effective management of the short-run
foreign exchange position and should reduce the current account deficits to
sustainable levels over the next two to three years.  As a consequence of
the changed resource position, growth was low in 1982 and will continue to
be low in 1983. In order to minimize the impact on domestic incomes and
employment, the Government is reallocating any rupiah savings from the
rephased projects to public expenditure activities with a high domestic
content.



-3-
Policy for Medium-Term Growth
6.        While a reduction in growth is unavoidable in the short-run period
of reduction in the current account deficit, it is essential that growth
rates be restored in the medium term: a rate of growth of the order of 6X
per annum for the non-oil economy is probably necessary to have a signifi-
cant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation in the 1980s.
This will require the diversification of the economy away from its present
dependence on oil, for both foreign exchange earnings and domestic savings.
7.        The Government has already taken major policy initiatives to
mobilize domestic resources. This involves both the increased mobilization
of private savings, especially of the household sector, through the
financial system, and the diversification of sources of public finance away
from oil exports. With respect to the former, the Government introduced a
major financial reform on June 1, 1983, that includes the significant
deregulation of deposit and lending interest rates, the reduction in
subsidized refinancing facilities from the central bank and the removal of
all credit ceilings. In addition to encouraging deposit mobilization, this
should also lead to increased efficiency of resource use. With respect to
public finance, the most important measures in the recent past have been the
large increases in domestic fuel prices to reduce the subsidy on
consumption; subsidies on food and fertilizer prices have also been reduced,
and the Government is in the process of introducing a major tax reform.
S.        The development of additional foreign exchange earnings from the
non-oil economy will be highly dependent on the policy environment for the
manufacturing sector. In the 1970s, rapid growth in output of manufactures
occurred in response to buoyant domestic demand, supported by a protective
trade regime and closely regulated investment licensing system. As a conse-
querce, the sector is almost entirely oriented toward domestic sales, and
major parts of it suffer from significant inefficiencies, by international
standards. In the future, a higher share of output will have to be alloca-
ted to exports if growth is to be maintained, especially in the relatively
labor-intensive consumer goods industries, as well as to continued import
replacement. This will require measures to improve the overall efficiency
of the sector, through policy development on the trade regime and regulatory
framework, backed by adjustment strategies for existing industries and
specific export promotion policies. The Government has already introduced a
range of export promotion measures intended to reduce the existing import
substitution bias in the economy, ensure ready access to finance for
exporters, raise product quality and improve marketing capacity. In August
1983 it was further announced that there would be a major overhaul in the
regulatory framework for private investment, with the objective of simplify-
ing and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        Agriculture will also continue to be of great importance for
export revenue (accounting for almost 75X of 1980 non-oil exports), food



- 4 -
production and employment. Rice producticn has been steadily rising to an
estimated total of 23.2 million tons in 1982, compared with 13 million a
decade earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the rehabilitation
and expansion of irrigation systems, the dissemination of new agricultural
technology, and widespread access to seeds and fertilizers. Future
investment in physical infrastructure, in irrigation and rural roads,
combined with a favorable market environment and good support services will
be the main determinants of further expansion in food production. In the
past tree crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure
of the trees is now very old. However, the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
10.       Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth in the past ten years or so.
Per capita consumption of the bottom 40% in the expenditure distribution is
estimated to have increased by 2.4% per annum between 1970 and 1980. These
gains are also borne out in the basic health indicators, with a 25% reduc-
tion in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy from 47
to 53./I These improvements should not, however, mask the continued
existence of widespread poverty. Almost 40% of the population are estimated
to have been in this condition in 1980. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for most of the
197Ds, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages.
However, in the 1979-81 period, bumper rice harvests appear to have led to
improvements in wages and incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes on
parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops declined in the face of
the international recession. Following the devaluation this situation will
likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed by the international
recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely affected.
11.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 2.6% p.a., equivalent to around 1.5 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; and it is unlikely that this pattern of
growth will be repeated in the future. If an adequate growth in labor
demand is to be achieved, it will be necessary to adopt policies
specifically oriented toward employment creation, in addition to restoring
overall growth. In the short-run, the maintenance of employment-intensive
public works activities can make a significant contribution.
12.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facili-
ties, notably at the sub-district level, but continued expansion and an
improvement in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This
will have to be complemented by a major expansion in water supply and
sanitation if the improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity in the
1970s is to be maintained. Currently, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the
urban population have access to safe water /1 compared with Government
targets: of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
13.       Even with the comprehensive program of domestic adjustment poli-
cies outlined above, Indonesia will continue to require external capital
inflows. Indeed, during the short-run adjustment period, the maintenance of
significant net inflows will be essential if the adjustment policies are to
be smoothly implemented and without excessive cost to current incomes and
the development process. In 1982/83 the Government was able to use past
financial asset accumulation to help finance the deficit: official reserves
declined by $3.3 billion and foreign assets of the commercial banks by an
additional $0.9 billion. While the reserve cover is still adequate, the
scope for additional drawdown is limited and the bulk of the finance of
future deficits will have to come from medium- and long-term public borrow-
ing. About $5 billion per annum of new commitments will be required over
the next three years to finance the projected deficits during the adjustment
period.  It is reasonable to expect that at least 40% will come from offi-
cial development assistance (ODA) - at the June meeting of the Inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia the donors pledged over $2.2 billion for
1983/84 - with some increase in borrowings from the financial markets and
continued use of official and private export credits.
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



- 6 -
14.       Total public debt outstanding at end-1982 was $18.3 billion, with
an additional $12 billion of undisbursed commitments. The debt profile is
excellent, with ODA accounting for 54% of the total and no short-term debt;
the average maturity of new commitments was 15 years in 1982. The debt
service ratio rose to 22% of exports, with the oil sector on a net basis, in
1982/83, and is likely to rise somewhat further in 1983/84 and settle at
about 25% in the mid-1980s. This is largely a consequence of the decline in
anticipated export earnings rather than increased borrowing. This debt
burden is high by Indonesia's past standards, but remains within the limits
of prudent debt management. Backed by the effective program of domestic
adjustment, Indonesia should be in a position to raise the required external
finance without undue difficulty.
PART II - BANK GROUP UPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 82 Bank loans amounting to $6,127.5 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%
respectively in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, nutrition,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with
the objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank
Group lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention
was also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical
assistance needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita
III (1979-84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high
growth and stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special
emphasis on more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation.
This focus, which was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic
economic report, required greater attention to employment generation
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus
Estate and Smallholder Sugar Project (No. P-3634-IND), circulated under
cover of R83-264, dated August 11, 1983, and approved by the Executive
Directors on August 30, 1983.



(particularly in the industrial sector) and to improvements in basic public
services. While Bank lending was already consistent with these objectives,
increased emphasis has been given to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact
will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
*           Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and
technical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close
integration between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of
lending to the subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy
issues at this level. The only significant shift in the composition of
lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct
response to the severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial
sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor and resource-intensive industries. This analysis may lead to a series
of industrial projects which would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy,
sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning.
Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of
lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support
for transport is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision
of social services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development
and water supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the
development of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the
disbursement ratio /1 from a low of 137 in FY80, 'o 18. in FY82, compared to
a Bank-wide average of 21.3Z, in Thailand of 21.kZ and in Nigeria of 17.3Z
in FY80. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid
increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%. However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A
number of steps have been taken by GO! and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
/1 The ratio of actual disbursemerts during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 8 -
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, 001 has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting praject implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GO in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these
efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase
in disburRements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $582.8 million in FY83. It
is nevertheless important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the third lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects at an advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Highway Betterment, the
Second Provincial Irrigation, and the Secend Swamp Reclamation Projects.
PART III - THE NONFORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SUBSECTOR
Background
21.       During the past decade Indonesia's formal education system has
expanded rapidly. Despite this rapid expansion, about 20% (18 million) of
the Indonesian population aged 7-44 years remains V 'terate. In addition
to this large number of illiterates, there is a growing number of school
dropouts who contribute to a pool of some 19.2 million under- and unemployed
persons. Over the decade of the 1970s, about 17 million children did not
complete primary sc0ool and in 1980/81 alone about 1.2 million children
dropped out of primary school. Between 1980 and 1985, the labor force in
the 15-24 age group is expected to increase from about 13 million to 15
million. A large proportion of this age group will enter the labor force
with less than full primary education and minimal or no employable skills.



- 9 -
Organization and Financing of Nonformal Education
22.       The Directorate General for Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports
(DGPLSPO) in the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) has the major
responsibility for providing basic education and training to the out-of-
school population through a national program of nonformal community
education (Dikmas). The Dikmas organization and program is aimed at school
leavers, dropouts and illiterates, as well as those adults in need of
further training to become more productive citizens.  The Dikmas programs
are administered through a network of provincial and district offices and
resource centers (BPXs and SKBs), subdistrict field workers and village
tutors. Dikmas activities are complemented by those of other governmental
agencies and nongovernmental orgaaiizations. In 1980, a Junior Minister for
Youth Affairs, whose responsibilities include promoting training and
guidance for out-of-school youth, was appoi-ted. He reports directly to the
President, indicating a rise in the status and importance of such nonformal
education activities. Growing Government concern for nonformal education
activities is reflected in the increasing share allocated to Dikmas in the
overall MEC budget. The Dikmas budget grew from $1.9 million in 1975/76 to
$16.2 million in 1980/81, an average annual growth rate of 43Z. During the
same period, total allocations to DGPLSPO rose from $4.3 million to $24.8
million, an increase of 34% p.a.
Key Issues in Nonformal Education
23.       The major objectives of the First Nonformal Education Project
(Loan 1486-IND) were:  (a) provision of effective nonformal education
programs; (b) development of learning materials and staff training; and (c)
strengthening of management capabilities. The project is scheduled for
completion in June 1984.  It has largely accomplished its goals, whaich has
resulted in a revitalization of the Dikmas organization (formerly known as
Penmas). Under the project, a core of complementary education programs in
basic literacy, family life education, vocational training and small-scale
enterprises were developed. By the end of 1982, Dikmas programs were
reaching about 5 million learners (compared with 400,000 in I977/78). The
small business component (called Learning Funds) was an experiment in the
creation and operation of small-scale enterprises. Approximately 2,700
learning and production groups were established in four years, of which
about two thirds were successful in sustaining an economic activity and
providing increased incomes to participants. The individual rate of return
to investment in such businesses (rate of growth of individual income
compared to the rate of growth of training costs) is estimated to have been
about 25%. Between 1978 and 1981, a system was also set up to develop,
produce and distribute basic learning materials, including 18.5 million
basic literary booklets and 600 prototype posters, slides, tapes, cassettes
and other visual aids. At the same time, about 17,000 Dikmas staff and
learning group monitors and tutors were trained in regional training and
materials development centers. The establishment of such centers under the
project began the process of decentralizing the planning of Dikmas
operations and bringing program design closer to the learning locale.



- 10 -
24.       Despite the basic attainment of project goals, the mid-term
evaluation of the First Nonformal Education Project in December 1981 raised
several issues related to the scope, quality and management of the new
programs:
25.       Scope. Although the First Project covered the seven most populous
provinces of Indonesia, there remains a need to intensify and expand
services to these provinces, since they contain 502 of the country's
illiterates and a large number of unemployed youth. There is also a need to
expand nonformal education programs outside Java to the Other Islands,
particularly densely populated areas such as Bali and high growth areas such
as South Sumatera. Poverty-stricken regions like East Nusa Tenggara also
require increased assistance.
26.       Qualit.  While the project facilitated access to basic educztion
for large numbers of learners, provided them with instructional materials
and created a flexible institutional format in which to learn, substantial
improvements could be made in the content of learning materials and the use
of participatory teaching methods. Many learning group leaders and
fieldworkers indicated that the literacy materials are too technical.
Weaknesses were also noted in the organization of the small business
program; in particular, fieldworkers and tutors require more training
in marketing, simple accounting, and business management techniques.
27.      Management.  Integration and communication between functional
units of Dikmas need strengthening, and feedback from the field to
decision-makers needs reinforcement at every level. Also, while a method and
instruments for collecting quantitative program evaluation data (e.g.,
Participation rates) have been developed, there is a need to collect more
performance data on program effectiveness, in order to strengthen overall
planning and management.
Government Strategy
28.      The Government strategy is to address the problems of inequity,
under- and unemployment and illiteracy through the provision of a total
education system which promotes nonformal community education as a
complement to the formal education system. Nonformal education provides
educational opportunity through p agrams of basic literacy, primary school
equivalency and craft training for those bypassed by the formal system and
those who have dropped out. During the Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1984-89
(Repelita IV), the Government is expected to continue Dikmas programs begun
under Repelita III to: (a) increase literacy in the national language by
expanding access to basic education through the formal and nonformal school
system; and (b) increase access to training in income-generating skills.
The Government plans to improve program quality and expand program coverage
throughout the country, with the assistance of the Bank under the proposed
second-phase project and the involvement of domestic non-government
organizations (para. 43 below).



- 11 -
Bank Group Involvement in Education
29.       The Bank Group has supported 13 education projects in Indonesia.
These projects have pursued the main objectives of meeting critical manpower
requirements, improving quality and increasing equity. Five projects
addressed quantitative expansion and qualitative improvement of basic edu-
cation, and seven projects focussed on expanding and strengthening
vocational and technical education. More recently, the Bank has embarked on
a major in-service training project with the Ministry of Public Works.
Apart from education projects per se, the Bank is also helping the
Government to overcome specific short-term manpower constraints through
project-related training in projects in a variety of sectors (vir ,
agriculture, power, coal development, population and health). OED Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared on two education
projects in Indonesia and the lessons of experience have been incorporated
in the design of the proposed project. The PPAR for the Technical Education
Project (Credit 219-IND) (No.2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stressed
the importance of including fellowships for development of teachers and
school administrators and appointing key staff for project implementation in
a timely manner. The PPAR on the First Agricultural Training Project
(Credit 288-IND) (No. 3508, dated June 30, 1980, SecM8O-527) stressed the
importance of advanced preparation and the need for carefully designed and
suitable technical assistance components.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
30.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the
ass-stance of consultants. It was appraised by missions in November 1982
and in February 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from September 1
to September 6, 1983. The Indonesian delegation was led by Dr. W.P.
Napitupulu, Director General for Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports.  The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4595-IND) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
31.       In support of the Government's stress on poverty alleviation and
expanding opportunities for employment, the project would increase access to
nonformal education, improve the quality of nonformal education programs,
and strengthen the management capability of Dikmas. It would build on the
exDerience of the First Nonformal Education Project by expanding the program
to ten additional provinces and giving greater emphasis to overall Dikmas
quality improvement. The project would support the entire staff training,
institutional development and infrastructure investment costs, and a portion
of the recurrent costs, for the Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1984-89. In addition,
it would provide direct assistance to basic education programs in the poorest
subdistricts of the country. To achieve these objectives, the project would:



- 12 -
(a) provide direct support to learning programs in basic education and
employment-oriented training; (b) establish new regional and district
staff training and materials development centers CBPMs and SXBs); (c)
strengthen existing centers to enable them to develop relevant learning
materials; (d) provide training in program development and operations to
staff at all administrative levels; and (e) improve program implementation
through the introduction of improved planning, monitoring and evaluation
systems, and implementation of an applied research program at Dikmas.
Expansion of Village Learning Programs ($31.5 million) /1
32.       The proposed project would support two types of village learning
programs: (a) basic education programs for illiterates and dropouts from
primary school; and (b) employment-oriented training for under- and unenr-
ployed youth. The project would expand these programs from the initial
seven provinces financed under the First Nonformal Education Project to an
additional ten provinces selected in accordance with the five following
indicators: Ci) total population; (ii) population density; (iii) number of
illiterates; (iv) number of school dropouts; and (v) youth unemployment
rate. Within the ten provinces the program would be concentrated in 63
districts and 381 subdistricts selected on the same five criteria. Daring
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would
establish criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for the se2Jection
of subdistricts in which employment-oriented training groups and basic
education learning groups supported under the project would be located
(Section 3.07(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       Basic Education.  The delivery system for learning programs would
continue to be structured around learning groups. Working in close coopera-
tion with local government officials and village leaders, fieldworkers would
identify priority village training needs and organize groups comprised of
about 10 villagers. Each group would be led by a tutor who, in addition to
teaching, would schedule meetings, keep records of attendance, and make
administrative arrangements. Learning group tutors work with Dikmas
fieldworkers and monitors to manage*learning activities by providing the
required resources, e.g. meeting sites, technical specialists and funds. The
duration of the learning groups' activities depends upon training objectives
and the previous educational experience of the participants.
34.       The core learning material for basic literacy groups is a series
of booklets termed Paket A. The core material would provide the learner
with a sustainable literacy level. It contains basic information related to
family life, civics, leadership, and prevocational skills. The project
would provide funding for the production of about 30 million Paket Al-AIOO
booklets. Supplementary materials, audiovisual aids and simulations would
also be developed.
/ This and subsequent cost figures indicate proposed outlays including
contingencies.



- 13 -
35.       This component would assist the Government to establish about
76,200 new village groups through the financing of basic education funds
provided for the groups. The funding available is based on total group
enrollment and funds would be used to purchase consumable learning
materials. The fieldworkers would also be provided with motorcycles to
improve supervisicn of learning groups in the more remote rural areas.
36.       Employment-oriented Training. Employment-oriented training groups
would formulate learning programs to create productive skills, generate
income, enhance the effectiveness of other local development projects, and
involve the least educated and poorest members of a community. Fieldworkers
and local officials would meet with residents to determine the types of
skills available in the community and the interest of residents in organizing
small businesses to meet local demand for desired goods and services. Group
leaders would have attained a high craft proficiency level and have some
business experience. Each group member would make a counterpart contribution
in kind or in cash equal in total to at least 2X of the start-up costs.
Group members would agree to a training schedule and keep records of financial
transactions. The Departments of Industry, Agriculture and Home Affairs
would provide technical support to the groups. Through an Employment-
oriented Fund, the project would provide an average grant of Rp 200,000
C$200-1983 prices) per group to cover operating costs, i.e. mainly consumable
materials and small equipment purchases. Supplementary training materials,
audiovisual aids and simulations would also be provided to assist field-
workers in training the groups. The Government would establish criteria and
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the selection of activities to be
assisted by the Employment-oriented Fund and for the replenishment of the
Fund (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Improvement of Learning Materials and Staff Development Programs
($34.7 million)
37.       Establishment of new Regional and District Offices and
Strengthening of Existing Offices. To support the expansion of village
learning programs through improved quality of learning materials and staff
training programs, the proposed project would finance construction,
equipment and furniture for three new regional materials development and
staff training centers (BPKs) and 24 new district centers (SKBs). The BPMs
would continue to improve Dikmas management capability by integrating
previously dispersed responsibilities for planning, staff training, materials
development, and evaluation. The BPMs would: (a) oversee the production and
distribution of Paket A booklets; (b) develop supplementary materials to
support basic literacy courses and employment-oriented training groups; (c)
develop materials for staff training courses; and (d) implement the monitor-
ing and evaluation of Dikmas activities. These institutions would be
increasingly responsible for: (i) producing locally relevant supplemental
materials; (ii) training monitors and village-level tutors; and (iii)
promoting greater coordination between Dikmas programs and those of other
,4EC departments.



- 14 -
38.       Learning Materials Development.  The BPMs would be responsible for
the production of about 30 million Paket Al-AIOO literacy booklets and their
distribution through the district offices. This core learning material
would be supplemented by locally relevant materials prepared by the BPMs
according to national and regional plans agreed annually by the Directorate,
the national materials development centers and the BPHs. The staff of the
BPMs would be responsible for field testing supplementary materials before
mass production (para. 45 below). SKBs would provide technical support to
Dikmas fieldworkers in preparing locally relevant supplementary materials to
serve learning groups within their area of responsibility.
39.       Staffing.  There are about 4,500 existing Dikmas staff.  About
1,400 new staff would be required to cover the proposed expansion planned
under this project. By the end of the project, each of the country's
subdistricts should have one fieldworker. The number of professional staff
in each of the BPMs would be about 40, while in the SKBs the number would be
about 17. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that staff would be appointed or transferred to these new positions in
accordance with a schedule prepared by the Government and reviewed and
agreed with the Bank (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       In-service Training.  About 720,000 staff-days of regular
in-service training would be provided at the national, provincial, and
district levels. Training would be provided to: (a) improve planning and
programming capability; (b) strengthen technical support skills; and (c)
improve Dikmas outreach. The project would expand and improve the quality
of Dikmas in-service training for staff from all provinces. During the
first three years of the project, the six existing BPMs would be responsible
for all in-service training of regional and district level Dikmas staff.
By 1986187, when the three new BPMs would be operational, the training
workload could be shared among the nine regional centers.
41.       Improvement of Planning and Programming Capability.  Under the
project, annual training workshops focussed on policy, planning, and overall
management, would be organized for about 160 project implementation unit
staff, regional Dikmas directors, and technical unit chiefs of the national
and regional materials development centers. To further strengthen the
ability of the SKBs to provide support to Dikmas activities at the
subdistrict and village levels, management and technical workshops would be
held for about 220 SKB chiefs and 435 technical staff.
42.       Strengthening of Technical Support Skills.  To improve the per-
formance of BPMs, about 540 key professional staff from the BPMs would
attend an annual workshop specialized in areas such as materials development,
training, programming and evaluation. In order to improve their ability to
supervise fieldworkers and oversee Dikmas activities, about 310 chiefs, 930
district field officers and technical staff and 1,500 Dikmas subdistrict



- 15 -
chiefs would be trained in personnel management, training, Droiect adminis-
tration, methods of monitoring and evalnation and participatory leadership
techniques.  Training for about 3,5nn subdistrict level fieldworkers wonld
be more field-based and would focus on improving implementation skills,
facilitating group discussion, producing learning materials and collecting
data for program evaluation.
43.       Improvement to nikmas nutreach.  Training would also he provided
-       tor private sector nonformal education personnel.  To further expand the
coverage of its nonformal education activities, Dikmas plans to mobilize the
support of local non-government organizations which have initiated and
*       financed a large number of basic education Rroups within the countrv.
Approximately 760 representatives from women's and youth organizations would
be trained to organize nonformal education groups. Similarlv,
representatives of subdistrict and village governing councils would be
trained to identify potential learning groups. Approximately 12,7nn
monitors (one per ten tutors) would undergo training on recruitment of
tutors and learners and learning group administration, in order to assist
fieldworkers to assess learner needs and supervise basic education groups.
To alleviate the problems of inadequate supply of trained tutors, funds
would be provided to train about 127,000 volunteer tutors from villages
throughout the country. In addition to instruction on how to teach adults
and how to use Paket A, the training program for tutors would be designed to
enhance competence in: (a) developing locally relevant learning materials;
(b) linking basic education courses with employment-oriented training
activities; and (c) assisting those who do not speak the national language
to acquire literacy and fluency in it.
44.       Technical Assistance and Overseas Training Fellowships.  To
support the materials development and in-service staff training programs,
domestic specialist services and foreign consultant services would be
provided for the Vational Dilcmas Directorate and the PRPs. Wev staff
would receive specialized training, either at home or abroad, in management,
program development, training design, learning materials development,
evaluation and nonformal education curriculum design. Funds would he
allocated for domestic fellowships under contracts with local educational
institutions to conduct training in the above six areas of specialization,
plus computer application.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government would establish criteria and procedures satisfactorv to
the Bank for the award of fellowships (Section 3.07(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The project would also continue to support Dikmas pre-service
training through a Diploma Course offered by secondary teacher training
colleges. Over 68n students have graduated from the program since it began
in 1980 and a large majority have been appointed as staff in the S1Rs; an
additional 2,000 students would be trainee under the project.



- 16 -
45.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would ensure adequate field testing of instructional materials
developed under the project, using sampling procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, and undertake any necessary revisions arising from such testing, prior
to mass production of any such materials (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Furthermore, in the context of the proposed joint Bank-Dikmas
Annual Review, the Government would furnish to the Bank for review and
comment by September 1 each year a plan and budget detailing a training and
materials development, production and distribution program for the coming
year, and thereafter implement such a plan, taking into account the Bank's
comments (Section 3.09(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Strengthening of Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Applied
Research ($5.3 million)
46.       Planning and Management.  The Dikmas Directorate's capabilities
would be strengthened through the creation of a technical secretariat
responsible for the management of technical assistance and an expanded moni-
toring and evaluation section described below. The project would provide
technical assistance in establishing an effective planning and management
system, including an improved monitoring, evaluation and research program.
To strengthen the process of decentralization begun in the seven initial
provinces of the First Nonformal Education Project (effected by what is
known as Decree 089), BPMs and SKBs would have increased responsibility for
preparing, pilot-testing, producing and distributing locally relevant
learning materials, and conducting field-based training in their use. To
make this effective, the Government has agreed to extend the provisions of
Decree 089 to all provinces included in the proposed project by January 1,
1984 (Sect'on 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The existing monitoring and evaluation
system would be modified to include identification of key program
activities; determination of appropriate performance measures and
iadicators; definition of supervision and monitoring responsibilities of
Dikmas staff at all levels; and design of effective reporting and review
activities, including feedback and follow-up. Case studies would also be
undertaken of the effectiveness of learning programs and of the
administrative system. The project would finance technical assistance in
the design and implementation of modifications to the system.
48.       Computer-assisted Information System.  The project would include
financiuig for a computer-assisted information syste-m An order to support the
management, monitoring and evaluation systems. Tl.e project would provide
technical assistance to set up the new system and train staff in its
operation.
49.       Mid-term and Final Evaluations.  Mid-term and final evaluations
would be conducted under the auspices of the Ministry of Education's Office
of Educational and Cultural Research and Development. The reviews would
concentrate on assessing the degree to which Dikmas had met its okjectives



- 17 -
under the proiect and on identifying strengths and weaknesses. The final
evaluation would serve as the Project completion report and would assess
Dikmas  capacity for program implementation after an expansionary period of
about a decade. During negotiations, the Coverninent provided assurances
that it would conduct mid-term and final evaluations, in accordance with
terms of reference and a schedule satisfactorv to the Rank, and promptly
furnish such evaluations to the Bank; a Project Completion 'Report would he
furnished to the Bank within six months of the loan closing Aate (Sections
3.04 (b) and (e) of rhe draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Applied Research.  The project would provide financing for studies
in nonformal community education.  An administrative mechanism and
procedures for identifying and selecting priority areas of study were
reviewed during appraisal. nuring negotiations, assurances were obtained
trom the Government that, by September 1 of each year, it would furnish to
the Bank for review and comment an annual program, including detailed terms
of reference, for studies to be carried out during the coming fiscal vear
under the project, and thereafter implement such a program, taking into
account the Rank's comments (Section 3.09(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Management and Implementation
51.       The existing Dikmas Directorate, under the Director General for
Nonformal Education, Youth and Sports, would continue to staff and have
responsibility for overall project management. The fnirectorate General
would liaise with and other relevant units of the Ministry of 7ducation on
matters related to policy decisions, scope and content of program
monitoring, review, and evaluation of project activities. The
organizational structure established in the First Nonformal Vducation
Project would be adopted in all the provinces included under the proposed
project.  nay-to-day management of project activities would he conducted
by the national, provincial and district offices of the nikmas organization.
The overall coordination and liaison with the Rank would be the
responsibilitv of the Dikmas Directorate.
52.       The project would be implemented over a period of about five
years. Acquisition of 27 sites (3 RPMs and 24 SKBs) is proceeding and the
Government expects to complete all actions necessarv to acquire these sites
by December 31, 1983: funding for this is also provided in the 1983/84 COI
budget. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that acquisition of
these sites would be accomplished not later than six months prior to the
scheduled start of construction at each site, and satisfactory evidence of
such acquisition would be furnished to the Rank (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Local consultants have been appointed to work on the
standardization of designs for the RPMs and SWBs and final desiRns were
reviewed at negotiations. Construction drawings and hid documents are



- 18 -
scheduled for completion by November 1983 and construction is expected to
begin within three months of loan effectiveness. Terms of reference for
technical assistance experts and planning and scheduling for the staff
training and fellowships programs are at an advanced stage of preparation.
Basic equipment lists for the APTAs and the SKBs have also been reviewed by
the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project, including the capitalized front-end
fee of $0.1 million, is estimated at $71.6 million equivalent, net of taxes
and duties. Base costs have been adjusted to reflect prices in A-agust 1983.
Construction costs were based on recently contracted works similar to
facilities developed under the First Nonformal Education Project. Equipment
costs were derived from master equipment lists which were reviewed during
appraisal and found appropriate in scope and cost. Furniture costs were
estimated as 10% of construction costs. Costs of learning materials and
printed materials were based on experience gained under the first-phase
project ranging from about S0.30 per Paket A booklet to $6.80 for simulation
games. Unit costs for technical assistance were estimated as follows:
$8,000 per staff-month for foreign consultants (inclusive of salaries,
allowances and international air fare), and about $9nn per staff-month for
local consultants. Overseas fellowships were estimated at about S2,0fn per
staff-month, and local fellowships at about SROO equivalent per staff-month.
Recurrent costs such as consumable materials, honoraria and travelling
allowances were estimated on the basis of current practices in the first
phase project which were reviewed during appraisal and found reasonable.
Phvsical contingencies represent 10% and price contingencies 36% of base
costs. Price contingencies were calculated on base costs plus phvsical
contingencies and estimated as follows: local - 20% for 19R8, 15% for 19Q4,
11% for 1985, and 7% for subsequent years; foreign - R% for 19R3, 7.5Z for
1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for subsequent years.
54.       The total project cost of $71.6 million equivalent (including the
front-end fee of $0.1 million) would be financed by a proposed loan of 943.n
million equivalent, covering 60% of total project costs excluding taxes
(100% of foreign and 43% of local expenditures). The Government would
finance from its annual budget the remaining costs of $28.6 million (40% of
total project costs).
Recurrent Costs
55.       To assist the Government in setting up and operating the expanded
program, the Bank would finance some incremental recurrent costs including:
(a) expenses of the tutors involved in the training of staff; (b) per diem
allowances; (c) travel allowances; and (d) consumable materials used during
the project period. The annual recurrent costs generated by the project
when fully operational (1989/90) would amount to Rp 5.5 billion, represent-
ing 17% of the total 19R2/83 recurrent expenditures of nikmas (Rp 33 billion)



- 19 -
or 0.5% of the 1982/83 recurrent budget of the Ministry of Education (Rp 1
trillion). These additional costs should not constitute an unreasonable
demand on the Ministry budget.
Procurement
56.       Past experience in Indonesia has shown that contracts for civil
works do not attract foreign bidders unless they are grouped into very large
packages.  Since this is not feasible under the proposed project because of
the geographical dispersion of project sites, contracts for civil works
($14.0 million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Equipment bid packages exceeding $100,000 equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines and are expected to represent about $2.0 million in total.
Local manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation
of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. Equipment in bid packages below $100,000 and all
consumable materials would be procured locally and are expected to represent
about $3.8 million in total. 0ff-the-shelf items of equipment and consum-
able materials not exceeding $50,000 equivalent for each package and
aggregating to a maximum of about $500,000 could be purchased through
prudent shopping on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price
quotations. Most learning materials would be printed textbooks and tutors
guides produced locally and are expected to represent $13.5 million in
total. Printing services would be procured through local competitive
bidding from private printing enterprises or government establishments.
Books and instructional printed matter would be purchased directly from
publishers or distributors at the lowest possible prices. Prior approval of
the Bank would be required for the award of civil works contracts exceeding
$500,000 equivalent (covering about 76% of the value and 33% of the
estimated number of contracts) and for contracts for the purchase of equip-
ment, consumable materials, learning materials and books exceeding $200,000
equivalent (covering about 78% of the value and 41% of the estimated number
of contracts). Employment of consultants would be carried out in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines.
Disbursements
57.       The proposed loan of $43 million would be disbursed over a period
of about six years. Disbursements would be made against the following
categories of expenditures: (a) civil works - 60% of total expenditures;
(b) equipment, consumable materials, learning materials and books - 100% of
foreign expenditures, 90% of local (ex-factory) expenditures, and 75% of
other local expenditures; (c) Employment-oriented Fund, consultants'
services, fellowships and professional fees - 100% of total expenditures;
and (d) training, per diem and travelling allowances - 50% of total
expenditures.



- 20 -
58.       Withdrawal applications would be suported by full documentation,
except for expenditures on training, per diem, and travel allowances,
consumable materials and the Employment-oriented Fund, which would be
reimbursed against statements of expenditure certified by the Project
Director. Documentation for these statements would be retained by the
project unit and be available for review by the Bank during project
supervision missions. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
would be aggregated in amounts equivalent to $100,000 or more, prior to
submission to the Bank.
Accounts and Auditing
59.       All agencies involved in project implementation would prepare and
maintain separate project accounts in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices. Accounts and documentation supporting the statements of expenditure
would be maintained separately and would be readily available centrally for
review by visiting Bank missions.  During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that: (a) accounts, statements of expenditure and
financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) certified copies of the
audited accounts and financial statements, for each fiscal year, together
with the auditor's report would be furnished to the Bank as soon as
available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would provide basic education and employment-oriented
skill training to about 800,000 Indonesian illiterates and school dropouts.
In line with the Government's stress on poverty alleviation the project is
targeted to serve the poorest segments of the population. In the long term,
the project is expected to: (a) increase literacy levels and promote access
to primary school equivalency for those desiring to re-enter the formal
school system at the secondary level; (b) provide village-level skill
training, direct employment and increased incomes to the poorer segments of
the population; and (c) improve the effectiveness of and increase
receptivity to government services and programs such as health, nutrition,
family planning and agricultural extension.
6i.       The benefits expected from the project depend on the competence
and commitment of the Dikmas staff.  To minimize the risk of poor quality
staff the project provides strong staff support in the form of increased
training, development of relevant learning maLterials, and improved
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. In addition, studies would be
conducted under the project to analyze incentive requirements of village
level extension staff and to explore alternative means of generating local
financial support for nonformal education activities. There is also a
possibility of misallocation of resources from the employmenL-oriented
training funds to members of the village who are not necessarily in the
greatest need of such resources and training. Control would be exercised by



- 21 -
a strengthened monitoring system at the village level and bv applying
stringent criteria, developed in consultation with the Bank, for selecting
learning groups to be funded, based upon lessons drawn from the pilot
component in the First Nonformal Fducation Project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTR7MENTS AND ATrHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RFCOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments-
by Ernest Stern
October 14, 1q83
Washington, D.C.



-22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA             - SOC1AL INDICATORS DATA SEMT
INDONES1A                           REPERINCELcOU a 9 CI UCNSrD AVERACKS) 1L.
NOST                    (MSoT RECURr ESTDATE) kb
b   b |=   h   DDLI INCUS  PDDLE rcGE
19 t70&  ESTINAIIL&     AA I P-ACiI         LAT. AMERCA  CARTE
AUZ (Z W5AND 33. Ot)
TOTAL                            1919.3     t919.3      1919.3
ACRICUDTURAL                      266.0      307.1       311.3
cGr PEE CAPITA (US$3                  90.0      150.4'      330.0            1023.6                  201P.2
-m   CmwouM  aR CAPTA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    129.0      143.0       266.0             792.8                  1407.6
NUATION AD5 PITA!L STATISTIS
PoPULATION.MID-YEAR (THUSMANDS)  94680.0   116201.0   149451.0                                        -
URBMA POPULATION (E OF TOTAL)      14.6       17.1        20.6              32.9                    65.9
POPULATION PROJFCTIONS
POPUI.ATTON IN YEAR 200 (HILL)                         215.7
STATtONARY POPULATION (MtLL)                           399.5
YEAR STATIONVAR POP. REACErD                           1140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. %0.                      49.3       60.5        76.2             260.7                    35.6
PER SQ. 10. AGR. LAND           355.9      378.4       461.2            1696.5                    93.2
POPULATION AGE STRuIscURE (E)
0-14 YES                        40.7       44.0        39.8              39.4                    40.1
15-64 YRS                        56.2       53.4        57.1              57.2                    55.3
65 AND AMVE                       3.1        2.5         3.1               3.3                     4.1
POPULATION GROWTH tATE (:)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.0         2.3               2.3                     2.3
URBAN                             3.7        3.6         4.u               3.9                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       45.8       40.7        34.6              31.3                    31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       22.5       17.2        13.1               9.6                     8.1
CROSS REROOUCTION RATE              2.8        2.7         2.2               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPrTORS ANIUAL (Taou0)          ..      181.1      3051.0
USERS (: OF HARRIED WOMEN)         .         0.2        36.0              46.6
FMO AIMl NUIIONlN
INDEX OP FOWO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0      102.0       122.0             125.2                   113.0
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REqUIREEWICS)     86.0       94.0       110.0             114.2                   111.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         38.0       42.0        49.0              57.9                    67.9
OF WHICH ANINEL AND PULSE        6.0        6.0         7.01c            14.1                    34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        22.9       16.9        13.7               7.6                     5.3
SALlE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      41.2       47.3        53.5              60.2                    64.6
INFANT MT. RATE (PER T10US)       149.9      IZO.9      105.0               68.1                    62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (.POP)
TOTAL                              ..        3.0        23.0              37.1                    64.8
URBAN                                       10.0        41.0              54.8                    77.8
RURAL                              ..        1.0        13.0              Z6.4                    44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ,.       15.0        23.0              41.4                    5L.6
URBAI                              ..       19.0        20.0              47.5                    69.8
RURAL                              *-       14.0        24.0              33.$                    29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        46730.0    26510.0    11530.0             7771.9                  1776.0
POP. PER NUMSINC PERSON          4510.0/f   7680.0      2300.0            2462.6                  1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL IED
TOTAL                          1360.0     1650.0      1610.0/d          1047.2                   477.0
URBAN                           250.0         ..       70O.07i           651.1                   667.5
RUML                               *-         *'      3160.0f          259t.9                  1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL  ED          ..         ..       22.4/.             27.0                    27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.4        4.8
URBAN                             4.9        5.3
RURAL                             4.3        4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RON
TOTAL                              ..        1.5
URBAC                              ..        1.6
RURAL                                        1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DNELLINCS)
TOTAL                              *-         X-.@                           -f
URBAN                              ..         ..          . -
RURAL                              ..         ..



-23-                                                   A!NEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
_s. s  - SOCAL DIDICAOS DATA SHE
LEIDOUESIA                          nEEEEJ(88E   mRsUPS (dE-aaID AVE:RAsE) as
mOSTr                    CRSr RECESTr ErIKA) lb
b      LgMb :        ,P       SO-. nsmmm
196T                                ASIA 4 PACIFC       LA. ACICA & CABIN
ADJUSTED  kDEI   ATIO
PRIMALY:  TOTAL                  nLO         77.0        91.0             101_2                   105.0
MLE                    86.0       83.0       104.0             106.0                    106.3
FElAE                  58.0       n.o         91.0              97.5                    103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  6.0        15.0       2.0               44.9                    40.0
MALE                   10.0       ZO.0        33.0              50.0                     38.6
FEMASL                  3.0        WO0        ZZ.O              44.6                    41.2
WCATIOXL C.' OF SEWDART)           2O.4        22.1        15.5              18.5                    34.0
RUFI-TEACEER gATD
PRaix                            39.0        Z9.0        34.0              3Z.7                    30I7
sEcoUDAU                         14.0        13.0        16.0       D       3.4                    16.7
ADUL  LITERACf RATE (C-            39.0        56.6        62.q/,            72.9                    79.5
1PASSEMCM CARSITKmSMS POP           1.1         2.1         3.SIg             9.7                    45.6
IADIO   CIVERSIMOUSMD  0P           7.2        2l.9        4Z.4             113.7                   22Z8
TV  AEcD rPO                        0.1         0.8         9.6              50.1                   10t.3
iSPAV    ( SDAI  GENERAIL
)IEREST) CIULATI0S
PER TOOGSaE  IOfULATM             11.0          ..        17.71d            54.0                    64.1
CXMM& AmWAL ATrEND      CAIITA      2.6 S                   0.5k             3.4                     2_9
TOTL LAIOR. FORMC  (30US)        34791.0    41090.0    53604.0
FEMALE (PEIRU)                   27.8        30.9        29.Z              33.6                    24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            75.%v       66.0        55.0              50.9                    31.3
UISR  (PERC0T)                    8.0        10.0   -   15.0               19.2                    23.9
PARTIMcPATIO  RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            36.7        35.4        35.9              38.6                    31.3
KAE                              54.2        49.5        51.1              50.7                    49.8
FEMA                             20.0        21.6        20.8              26.6                    14.1
ECUEImIC     OENCY 0ATO             1.2         1.3         1.2               1.1                     1.4
PERGW;r OF PRIVATE INC1E
REcKIVED of
IGEiESr St Or RU1SENOLDS            _          _         23.514            22.2
&IGHIEST Z   OF HOUSE8DIS          *-          --       49.4               48.0
LUi= 20l OF t*USOLDS                    *      -          6.6/d             6.4
LOWEST 106 OF ZOUSEiOLDS           ..          ..        L4.47T            1' .5
ESTIM        ABOLUTE roWeT
LVE. CUSS PER CAPITA)
URNBA                              .           __       136-0s            194.5                   2899.
RIMAL                              .       _            1ZO;              155.0                   184.5
ESTMT RELTVE lOVErTY DICUN
LtVE (USS PER CAPITA
URI"..                                                  119.Oft           178.0                   519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       9L07O             164.8                   372.1
EST ITED W. NEXwL  AsSOLUT
POVERTY XSCIE LEVEL. CZ)
URBAN                                                      o ..  2.        24.4
RURAL                                                    51 05             41.1
:0r AVAILABLE
.Tr APPLICABLE
Pi O T C S
la The group averas  for each indLeator a" populatlon-welbted erittatic ris. Coverage of countrie         g rhe
Indicators depends o- avalablUty of data and La not uniforx.
lb  oijless oebhrwiv   noted. 'Data for 1960- rfer to any year betewa 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970J  between 19b9 and
19n: and dara for -Host Recet ExtLmmte between 1979 end 1981.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; le 1975; If 196Z; A  l978.
may 1983



- 24 -                                                                ANNEX I
am,aTrmOr cm -==:=SPage  3  of  5  pages
3.1;   111451 5.499 v.   .8 9         -.9..1y .             2.    "99.191.- 810  99111             . 99.91   191  -~ 'D.1 5275        2 5.19.1  ,
.~.h. 9s    .4~  1991.5   .W 10499.115                   95. ..e     CZ) 412.. _ 91- 9 W."   111,  11. "w.5. --     4958 .5. M~5.  v~ .-*.1  ft.
d.~512  .10.. .5  .1110. 1109919 19109. 92..991*s   9   9.,. LU299.. 1929-99     9199. Z.       .      _             ~ .
-  9991  9~        (1)lb.-   -   45..51  pb .Un-    -&        (2) b-t.19, -5  9- 191 dL          t   . 5=,5Wb142.. .g      a 5= 997 Wen 91.
j9~~9     .90129   14   9~   91  .9.     =99941   =..192   1.9             041 91  1  1          19..599=9    9991
.ffl1r.9.)  1~12. 10..5=.55  499:1. gm.- pp.2=~ .95310 91~9.  - 2.~.~.l94I99I .2.91                    bys17 5 1.          1
2.. 4.2.1 125 1101."'Uu.. L-&       -M I.. .L." .2.5=1.        11t.95 op9..           .inI111"5 ..-1 .=    993   m.9                     12
.29.  0 IV-9-19s.)                                                                           -          5.     -   _.9011.  1.9   by       .5-99
-  - s*s.i .ms.9.   ~~~~~~~.z.i.g 1.94   ~~~~~~i   .s...  iwo.    ~                 dzz    byi.1  t-&F                zs f       h.I."
2090C4r- Im)4.1g.       -a   _ ~ - -i_~  .                                                   L..s.19    -W. 1.999   59.-91.  "1.1410 b   b1 5C- "5999
HIM  by .91            59=. 5.11.r.. - W1   4 ~1-=9911791f 999,.995                                                                       D 1   51  s~9.~...95  .9.91.9... I   wf0
,ft. two.  99999 999-a   1     11 95=                                                 by949Z5--9-  07 U9   l-I..1b1930.  .91.19b in1-2.9119
101.9    2990 4.5..                                           ,..19.1..~~~~~~~~~~-      -  9...Ls.A .4  - s.9l.  ..9...  .--.l - p.1..  9.9.1
2034. 1I.7. -4 119 4Wy-                                                                17.9 1.9.5 -  919911VW. E92bIPLJv9 99           ut.9194  993*1 _a..4.
--   -   1.4.4   .l  =9&5 -. 5=1. 2.1493.9- 19c
gmCY   2~7199 12 7991.-    El .poM...5   .9.   .5      12.l 4two.                       5.99y. = .W .99991  .9.M. 3.9  bzI.5   35by  91.
792. 1.91.9...  14...._.3. .10)    8.  8li   9030 1070. .9  101 t2.                     -. 9..1.- 310 b- .1 .- 19s.  ~..  -r    b  1.2-
412.9994.1411.51   99~9.-y .45.- 5-.Lh1l1 9.5. 4959                                         --224  -
~  91.9: 2960. 2070.    . -.....      -                                             s.s    91   ss.    .. ...214  - t-3.  
1-.99..   .5199                                                               -99..914.9.5=10    591 . 5195=1   -                  9* 1996 =999
7--   h. P         919  999.19.31)5599 -_.94-110                              10tb1r92..99.A  ..d1 _14.97-  v992.1.1L.41
19   =5 -E   9L.9111 "   8.995 .  ..             p.   1149.                        5191929129.         95 5='2.gd)- 9.9. 5=.1998-
5..1.  99.811         'K... 2 21   919=.199991 r  a.-t1
19991199911 99995=.7919.....5.I  .5..E 5. 511117~~                                5.91I..95- 9.we199.
4.515  5. 1. s.1s..9sl r-. .20.1. -95  t911.511.. 5-.1-                       11   .1. -EY     b    "2-1 1. 9919    f.. . - 9 55 551.91  99
999991.. .1 . . I-911-t U12. 5=.9   =                                              _m.  99=91  91=  tclw  21.39=:....1y1.l    .hl. MD  b-Il
P91.1.59s1.   S1         10                                                          ... 10.9 .99.9  -  C..1 9!.     95z   - C          -  b-
151 :16020 1q7.    11.9495.                                                    99P11. indlv94 12. M  7 in  .    :- s...--m-ft-
99~19.. 900    0081.1.l.I9m1=   .99   5.s1.    - V-S11=9915=5
-ss..)  1  11.  E95 F.-. -10  ..    P-  .ta.m. .5 .14-i...cy- -LIT                       d.5=..n. E.949 1195
two.~9; 00.12.  i 1291 495                                                  =1s~9   .9    .....             .s=s    -- 5=9      -5=       111  W
I.o.95t. C....2  2.9  I-tl - .91 -  -I                 995521 1-959. 1 &f  l                      ..910y 1...1  4121 by~             .5Lf C".9.11   .9.
95   991599 9119910.  10 159.  190L.                                         V..p.-0- 9 l...19.
999.1-f-.l   -..9.9.) -919-   U1   p- s5-t E5 .5.                             01   19.9  s.2199      1592  51.Cb. .-=.0.1.
C.5=   913.. 99    -  .)  -    1- 1.. 1125=  .s  -1. .51 b    1.14-t
-  99991.51.5:10 v. 1.   20r b. 9.- F          t.-.IfI                         m.M--(rAL  y-.                                                 t    0
C94.2911t5. -Z  -19.l94 -l~         1  =2  .C",       = I".5lm    d11t .1-..           =1  5   p.  b5.4gm.l.2-5 .P.w   s-   ..L.&-
99*2=199. 1020. 103.95. 1042 4P2..                                          9. ..99  19   9929 551.5...                      .55  .        5
C   U    .9    .199  _  -y9    Eint4..5 -t.1115   1.t                 .11-2.9  -91211.2.                            V            1   t
i..1015.2. .1..  999.9  4.-9.151.  10. .5.... ~12399.0  .9..9.. - 11ty.. 5  .9999  51945
E."  " 1.   _I~~    - b-t.- C--fit.1- .-  PfTV 19 915.9  (Wy   b.10 .091.1. -  TV- 5.11-5  9. bs5=   5
V..1.912 '8  -   E.... .W) .&.21*b.4 .5       -"B. 99 (..    .4B                  tft..I -SLa ~&5 59.1        1.12...                at.... .-I.. 1V 9.515
5=95 5915=1521 1Xftj 101- 99.9.).-                 011 b-95. 49.19..                  -. soSr1. .495....  .g.91.1   V.9-2  9.
.11 9r.4  a.  9 .   81 915=    -L.rCIr.t.59. Ir53ssd ps9199.)0  Sb.. 12 .
90.9W   99117299 'Ehfl.11. -".9  8 .11a 9- L..".  ....1.117 -1-    -.74 L-1.4.2101--
---. 29*01109.. p-c *p2. C04-7t2 -L             1.4.  .2~yp    * s.912                9.11911.  49999. 9129.311 9   C.9416.-5.   5.12I 141
9.. .02.-  .1.0.  ~.  191.  7551.~.2  119.710 5L4.719...5..9   9909 .-:. Low11   -.09 P.-Cm. -  ttt Uby.5
995.59.  9; .991-51.  499392919 9 -11" 111.-1P---.9.571- 99311--92MG.
99155=.9111915.111. 2.1591.5 19.W 2999911-A -.99. A-9                      YfI(291- ft'. (0.9-0) - 2.9..M   1.,1 5.25  9999.9. 181110195.9.-
9951.99119091 t-i"   9995=.51Ib1  5 Cs"      97 99  -9921Y9 0...5=                          p .l.4    991919 29- 91.   95..6.9 95.  9919
99999-5..          kt W=1.991    W-   ~a 1.  999.99119 "-11 I..9 9994 9919.O5=9197. 1i30 2070 5= 1041 4.                                             t
0.991118.9-  1. 5=4             7% .1   1... 1A8 41.h1.5~9 -C 2 IW                          j91- 99        -     -?E .9  5.5.  95.921  5..   4.55..
bq.s...1  -.  911990 b 70   . 5 L9. 9b51..988 by . s.D.                      f--t-              - -i9i .1.2  8914  9989.35295
.2I19.5.2.14   S.9.11   L9*1-. 07 1910 10. 419. 4                                          9-1999957 lW99191 3-5.5. 9.19.9994   10529   1.39  2.        09
95199917100,1099  4.97  011 h-.917 9- 299  1. -919   tb-39   .                      19211995 1.99 (ps.   599.  -h1. 9. 9..1 - S_S.119y995c99t1
10 .19. 9919181. 891-) 292.914  1p.4b  t41. 1.                                   F.r. 9.19%. -                              -       .91..p9-y99
W39 91145941..7  13.)  91  121  4.1.                                                  -a1 991099 1 .19..    -  .19pp1.199411 5h                   =995
19W-29   192.911  11.-II1.91 -1P,9919 ._t 1191 mg..9                                   595.9119.1              M-9
49191  219 ...1  10p1   19 it.It        p.s dsp;  123.I.- -1.-2L .102-0-Z
0.11  5... -91)9.991  99. 5= V99.1)-091 499919 999 p1995. 94-t 3.9.99.9                     - 11-.99  L999  5912  99.2  1011     -    W351 P-112.9
19.1519 458  .1110  55.112 5.11.  903. 17 - 416 4.59.                        19-991 0499         .             ,- .       .  -."1
P*,I. r_"I, -  C"p- 1-t.4 -t  -   h-                min T,-  -L-  C99979         f~-Cf  L&.  . 
'U9:         91 02.1  29.1." -    m 1d=  L.        -~9...    0   r  ..1 t1.tb.s.... t                             9198999.995p995   ..  1
99 112; WO.117 .0 1314 -5.                                                 .=1&2.,I199.51..1.19141.1.   5.
09.99     031.19  1.-599  519991) .5=          4999.W91  .2-M 5=9   -e91.1.915   91919                               151  211591)-.395   99
.8915.7 U   19.          AM199.99 LP12.1 I999919 - 9919199   . b                      919t19999 -2.  19951   53919991 1. 499               t.15L.91. 991-
I.__.   1by2  9        99991 85-b993. 2.11.t 5.  31.9. .. t4 . -1---r.tnl 9                                      W_-119  .99.9910. 9591 rt19t-9  DP-
939-9-  93  992.4991 991  p.0*490991999999



AN=EX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Populatinn        152.6 million (mid-1982)
MCP Per Capita: TsS580 (1982 estlmate)
I5DONESIA - ECGSOMIC 1NDICATORS
Annual growth rate (2) /a
(million US5 at                                                                     F-stimated
current prices)                             Actual                                  Projected
Indic:tor                           1981          1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
SATIOXAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product lb       85.486           5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.9   -0.1    1.4    5.1    7.1
Agricutture                   21.587           0.0    4.7    1_3    5.2    3.9    5.2    4_9    2.1    2.6    3.1    3.1
Industry                      34.668           5.6   IL.l   14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    8.5   -1.9    1.0    9.5   11.4
Services                      29.231          10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.8    5.5    t.0    2.0    5.0
Consumption                     66.108           6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.8    3.9    0.4   -0.1    4.5
Gross inr vestment              18,280          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7   11.1   13.0   -8.1    5.0    6.0
Exports of GNFS                 23.309          -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.n   -0.1   -5.7   -2.6  -10.4   -1.2   12.8   11.1
Imports of GNFS                 22.411          11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9   27.1   10.4  -12.0   -4.2    2.0
Gross national savings          17.016         -16.3   14.2   30.Z  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -19.0    5.4   28.4   15.3
PRICES
CDP deftator (1973 - 100)                        166    190    214    238    315    407    448    484    581    668    741
Exchange rate                                    415    415    415    442    623    627    632    661    970    970    970
Share of GOP at market prices (2)
(at current prices)                               Average annual increase (Z) ia
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990       1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross dooertic product      100    100    100    IOD    100    100           3,a         8.4         7.4        4.2         5.1
Agriculture                54     47      32     25     25      23        2.7          4.1        3.3         3.2        4.0
Ixdustry                   14     18      34     43     41      41        5.2         12.0        9.8         4.2         5.1
Services                   32     35      35     32     34      36        4.8          9.7        9.5         4.6        6.n
Consumption                91     89      79     71     73      74        4.1          8.4        9.2         4.7         5.4
Gross Investment            8     14      20     21     22      23        4.8 1B.3                12.2        5.1        6.0
Exports of GXFS            13     13      23     31     27      25        3.6          9.2        2.9        -1.1         3.9
Imports of GIF5           -13    -16    -22    -2Z    -22    -22          3.2         22.1       14.0         3.8         5.3
Gross nattonal savingRs     8      9      17     26     23      23        6.1         23.1        14.2       Z.         4.5
As 2 of GDP
1960         1970           1975           1980          1982
PUBLIC FtStsC |c
Current revenues                                                11.7         10.1           17.4           22.5           23.2
Current expenditures                                            14.0         8.4             9.9           12.8           11.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      -2.3         -1.6           +7.5           +9.7          +11.4
Capital expenditure                                             n.a.          5.0           11.3           13.0           14.5
ForeEgn financing                                               0.2           3.5            3.7            3.3            3.1
1960-70        1970-75            1975-80         1980-85         1985-90
OTNER 14DrCATnRS
Annual GNP growth race (2)                            4.5             7.6                7.1             4.2             5.2
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                 2.4             5.1                4.7             1.8             3.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)             2.2            11.2               11.0             5.6             5.2
ICOR                                                  2.2             2.2                3.3             5.4             4.3
Marginal savings rate                                 0.30            0.48               0.28            0.15            n.3
Import elasticity                                     1.2             2.8                0.84            0.11            1.03
fa At constant 1973 prices for 1975-1981. and 1981 prices for 1982-1985.
lb At market prices.
Ic  Central Government only. on an April-to-Ytarch fiscal year bastss.                  East Asia and Pacific Programs
October 5. 1983



6oYCX I
P re 5 of S page
Population       152.6 m111ion (mid-1982)
CGI per Capita: DS$580 (1982 estimte)
NDOSA - BALANC OF PAThES, MXERNAL CAPITAL                 D?
(Million US$ at currant pries)
Actual                                  Estimted Projected
Indicator                 1971     1975     1979     IW80     1981    1952      1953     1954     1955      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMETS la
1. Exports                           10.861   11.353   18.510   22,885   ZZ.994   19.524   17,540    20,907   25.437   47.398
(a)  Oil & UNG (gros)             7.354    7,374   12,340   17,297   18,824   15.631   13.370    15.638   19.425   33,931
(b)   Nacoil                      3.507    3,979    6,171    5,587    4,170    3,893    4,170     5,269    6,012   13.467
2.  Imports (including net NIs)    -10D686  -11,493 -13,205 -17,589  -22,096  -22,773 -20,020   -20,983 -23,164  40,345
(a)  Oil sector                  -2,909   -3.364   -2,960    4.050  -5.407   -5.468    4.357    4,135  -4.398   -6.899
(b)  Nonoil imports              -7.Z41   -7.543   -9,028  -11.837  -14.022 -14.893  -13.698  -15.069  -17.110  -31.646
(e) NFS (net)                      -536    -5S86   -1.237  -1.702   -2,667   -2,411  -1.965   -1,779   -1.656   -1.800
3_  Resouare balance                    175    -140    5,305    S,296       898   -3.249   -2,480       -76    2,273    6.913
4. Factor services                     -565  -1.015   -3.106  -3,165  -3.267   -3.566  -3,893    -4,625   -5.599   -9.380
(a)  Intereat publtc debt          -641      485     '635    -724      -20   -1,466   -1.494    -1,803  -2,098   -3.031
(b)  Other (set)                   -424     -530  -2,471   -2,441   -2.4k7   -2,102   -2,404    -2,822  -3,501   -6,349
5. Capital grants                        66       66       52       76       67      100      100       100       100      10O
6. Balance on current account          -624   -1,109    2.198    2,131  -2.302   -6.715  -6.278   -4.601  -3.227   -2.367
7. Direct foreign investment            285      271      217      140      139      276      350        350     400       700
S.  Public K & LT loans
(a)  Disburseent                  1.956    1.638    1,939    2,564    3.203    4.383    5.411     5,592    5.733    6.973
(b)  Amortization                  -825     -977   -1.335    -987   -1.001   -1.146   -1.541    -1.943  -2.297   -4,865
(c)  Set disbursements            1,131      660      604    1.877    Z.202    3.237    3.870     3.648    3,436    Z,107
9.  Other capital (net)                -140      888   -1.329  -1.248      -539      -78    2.675       480    1,174       615
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651     -7G5   -1.690   -2,736      988    3,280     -617        123  -1,713  -1,055
11_  Met official reserves             2.208    2.916   4,606    7,342    6.354    3,074    3.724      3,636   5,485   10,115
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + BPS                     3.4      4.3      5.4      6.5      4,4      Z.1      2_9       2.6      3.5       3,5
Memorandm Item
Net foreign assets of the banking                        -
system lb                              -        -    6.906   10.787   11,154    7.674    7,824     7.236    8.685   13,315
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + UNF                        3.4      4.3      5.1      9.6      7.8      4.7      6.2       5.2      5.5       4.6
EXIERNAL CAPITAL AND DETr /c
Gross Disbursements                  1.956    2,205    1.855    2.536    2.729
Concesstonal Loans                     U2       484      433      659      792
Bilateral                            381      448      399      611      718
IDA                                   49       29       30       42       69
Other                                 12        6        5        6        5
Nonconcessional Loans                1.514    1.721    1.432   1,858    1.937
Official export credits              218      271       61       4       165
IBRD                                 191      168      199      331      314
Other multilateral                    16       12       66       52       86
Prisate - source                   1.089    1,270    1.126    1.449    1.372
External Debt
Debt outstanding & disbarsd Id   11.658   13flJ7   13.234   14582   15,737
Offiecial - source               7.077   8,390    8.434    9,400   10.114
Private  - soarce                6.583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623
Undisbursed debt                   4,475    5,839    7.932   9.454   11.354
Debt Service
Total service payments             1.262    2,062    2.100    1.772    1,974
Interest                           441      514      771      519      973
Payments as Z exports /I            11.6     18.2     11.3      7.7      9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(.)                                  6,3      7.6      6.6      8.2      8.6
Official - source                    5.6      4.6      5.0      5.5      7.9
Private  - source                    8_6     10.2    856       12.3      9.2
Av erage Maturity of New Loans
(Tears)                             20.5     18.8     18.6    18.6      15.2
Official - source                   23.8    30.1    24.8    24.4        20.8
Private  - source                    9.1      8.7     11.0      9.9     10.6
As : of debt outstanding at end of lv&c
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities dut within 5 years                                                                         40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                        69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                        5.7
La On an April-to-March fiscal year basts.
/b  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
Tc Excludes private nonglaranteed loans.
/d At end of period.                                                                           Efst Asia and Pacific Program
/e Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                 October 5. 1983



ANNEX II
- 27 -                       Page I of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) la
US$ million
Loan|                                                                 Amount
Credit Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                         Bsnk     IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed  760.5    544.1          -
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                    -      16.0       0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                              65.0       -         5.5
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping            13.0       -         1.6
1237  1976   Fourth Education                              37.0       -         2.9
1250  1976   Second Shipping                               54.0       -         0.5
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                            33.0       -         5.9
1336  197.   Second Urban Development                      52.5       -         4.5
1337  1977  Tinjung Priok Port                             32.0       -        4.8
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                  116.0       -        25.7
1373  1977   Nutrition Development                         13.0       -        0.3
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education              19.0       -         4.7
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                             63.0       -        27.2
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                              35.0       -        4.2
1472  1977   Second Population                             24.5       -         6.6
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education                          15.0       -         4.0
1499 1978   Nucleus Estate and Smllholders I               65.0       -       22.5
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                 94.0       -       27.2
785 1978   Smll Enterprise Development                      -      40.0       7.6
1578 1978   Tenth Irrigation                              140.0       -      101.1
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                           31.0       -       11.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                    -      30.0       2.5
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II              65.0       -       45.4
869  1979   Polytechnic                                     -      49.0      22.2
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.0       -       42.1
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                       54.0       -        19.6
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                      -      10.0       8.2
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control             50.0       -       27.0
1692 1979   Second Agricultural Training                   42.0       -       11.0
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                               123.2        -       70.1
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                50.0       -        7.2
919  1979   Transmigration II                               -      67.0      15.1
1707  1979   Transmigration II                            90.0        -       87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                175.0        -       60.1
1709  1979   Second WIter Supply                           36.0       -       20.2
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Eank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                     Psgez2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                         Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.0        8.1
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III             99.0       -        59.3
984  1980   Smellholder Rubber Development                  -      45.0       31.6
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      45.0       25.2
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      42.0       34.9
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.0       -        78.4
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV              42.0       -        34.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                35.0       -        35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                  -      30.0       21.7
1869  1980   Third Population                              35.0       -        29.5
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                  253.0       -       166.1
1898  1981   Smllholder Coconut Development                46.0       -        37.3
1904  1981   University Development                        45.0       -        41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                  250.0       -       156.3
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamstion                             22.0       -        16.4
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.0       -        35.1
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smllholders V             161.0       -       144.2
2011  1981   Second Snll Enterprise Development           106.0       -        18.7
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikqmpek Highway                      85.0       -        85.0
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                               170.0       -       146.9
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                  15.0       -        14.8
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                   185.0        -      144.8
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                      100.0       -        84.5
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.0       -        79.7
2102  1982   Second Textbook                               25.0       -        25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.0       -        34.7
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                        70.0       -        64.2
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.0       -        63.0
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smllholders VI                 68.1       -        66.8
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.0       -        24.6
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                      5.5       -         4.9
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                300.0       -       293.8
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII            154.6       -       152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                             27.0       -        26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                 22.4       -        22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                           101.0       -        99.5
2258  1983   Public Works Mtnpower Development             30.0       -        29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                      30.6       -        30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                    208.9       -       208.9
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                             63.5       -        62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.4       -       107.1



ANNEX II
- 29 -                   Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year             Purpose                         hlnk     IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power /a                         279.0       -      279.0
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training /a                63.3       _       63.3
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smllholder Sugar /a         79.2       -       79.2
Total hank loans and IDA credits         6,076.15   930.10
Of which has been repaid                  -241.83    -9.70
Total now outstanding                    5,834.32   920.40
Amount sold to third party       28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b         5,833.29   920.40
Total undisbursed                        3,797.50   177.50  3,975.00
/a  Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                              Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor               business           -    (US$ million) ---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement             10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                 Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primntexco Indonesia  Textiles             2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia        Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles           4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism             11.0       -        11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primtexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics        0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                  Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. KUnaltex               Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   F.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.7. Semen Cibinong         Cement               -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.        Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                Textiles            0.9       -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera        Capital Market      4.0      1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries          Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas          Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material        48.0       5.0      53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital MIrket       4.0      0.3       4.3
Total gross commitments                      118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled           82.6       5.7      88.3
Total held by IFC                             36.2      12.3      48.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   -          -         -



- 31 -
AM,RFX TIIT
INDONESIA
SECOND NONFORMAL F.DUCATION PROJ.CT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          R months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:          Directorate of Community
Education (Dikmas)
(c) First presentation to the Bank:              February 1982
(d) First Bank Mission to consider
the project:                              July 1982
Ce)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   October 19R2
Cf)  Date of completion of negotiations:         September 1q83
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              February 1Q94
Section EI: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The fovernment would:
(a) establish criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for the
selection of subdistricts in which employment-oriented training
groups and basic education learning groups would be located
(para. 32);
(b) appoint staff to new positions in the various Dikmas offices in
the project area, in accordance with a schedule agreed with the
Bank (para. 39);
(c) establish criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for the
award of fellowships (para. 44); and
(d) furnish to the Bank, for review and comment, by September 1 each
year a plan and budget detailing a training and materials
development program for the coming year and thereafter implement
such a plan, taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 45).



I;w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
W,,A k     J HAILANDw                                                2-,,    n
SuA, China
I  mu T_c                                                                                BRUNEI                       - 
L / t       ! MALAYSIA                                                                    nflA
0~~~.~    FO  II-.o
-~~~~~~  -2 ~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA 
N G ^m , o' NGAPORE
; ; ; l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X JAB Lr  /M  A 'N  7 ,,At4tf-
I~~~~~~~~~~               a va   Se czf Peu-   
100                       toe~~~~~~nd   c .  C/   ez nSUBA
IOD                      ~~~~~~~~~tW                         112'                                llr



IBRD 17432
1i4-      .                                130-                                                                            *4W
.;                                                              INDONESIA
PHILIPPINES    ,-                                       SECOND NONFORMAL EDUCATION PROJECT
A   NEW D0K0M  CENTERS i
W NEDISRICT     Q DNU CEN7I u
r    DKs NATIoNAL DIRTORATE
*--  -                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROjECT AREAS COVERD UNDER THE
'; ' FIRST NONFORMAL EDUCATON PROM?-
~7                                  -. -  INTERNATIONAL OUItDARIEE
'   z      ~C   ;   _ 
-       :         .-,  .QJA;L'-'.  MAHERA
f                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0*
f                                         0j"\~~~~~~~~~1  I   ''%.
--Co 4 W~~Ea,-dw GuS               ,        j
-A WES1 ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a                                                           
-  -  .  - .> -- -.sv2?-, s S 4c'                                   |                   
I.A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-'    --                    ~~~~BIJRU                      ~
'*II R I A N  JA
.~~ Y  .-7    ~        A Y
,,.f.; e *- <--~~~0r  (Yc    I    c
hfa ~3                                         ma        z0o       300 o00
-                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
_ r= ._ q0*+   -> r                                                        0    10,    2OG   3D0  200   50
-             ,,,_ ~'I-                                                                O,   10I       *    i    *I0   0   5,
,_   , '                                                                              KfILOEES5
12C                                         130                                         13*






