Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17101 -MAG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PILOT PROJECT
November 18, 1997
Water, Urban Division
Africa Region



THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00 = FMG 5,041.24 (5/31/97)
SDR 1.00 = US$1.3784 (as of November 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIPA    Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Infrastructure Publique
d'Antananarivo
AES          Project of Water Supply in the South
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFD          Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CNEA         National Committee for Water and Sanitation
CREA         Regional Committee for water and Sanitation
DEA          Directorate of Water and Sanitation
ESA          External Support Agencies
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FY           Fiscal Year
IEC          Information-Education-Communication
MEM          Ministry of Energy and Mines
NGOs        'Non Government Organizations
NPV          Net Present Value
OM           Operation and Maintenance
PMU          Project Management Unit
SAGS         Service d'Assainissement et Genie Sanitaire
SME          Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE          Statement of Expenses
SSPA         Sector Strategy and Action Plan
TOR          Terms of Reference
VAT          Value Added Tax
WPC          Water Point Committee
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo
Country Director:     Michael Sarris
Technical Manager:    Jeffrey Racki
Task Officer:         Andreas Wildt



Republic of Madagascar
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Project Financing Data
Block 1: Project Description                                                         2
1.   Project development objectives                                        2
2.   Project components                                                     2
3.   Benefits and target population                                        3
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements                         3
Block 2: Project Rationale                                                           4
5.   CAS objectives supported by the project                               4
6.   Main sector issues and Government strategy                            4
7.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices    7
8.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection             8
9.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                                  9
10.  Lessons learned and reflected in project design                       9
11.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                      10
12.  Value added of Bank support                                           10
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments                                                 11
13.   Economic Assessment                                                  11
14.   Financial Assessment                                                 11
15.   Technical Assessment                                                 11
16.  Institutional Assessment                                              11
17.   Social Assessment                                                    11
18.   Environmental Assessment                                             12
19.   Participatory Approach                                               12
20.   Sustainability                                                       13
21.   Critical Risks                                                       13
22.   Possible Controversial Aspects                                       13
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions                                                        14
23.  Effectiveness Conditions                                              14
24.  Other Agreements                                                      14
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies                                               14
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary/Cost Analysis Assumptions
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Status of Bank Group Operations in Madagascar
Annex 10: Madagascar at a Glance



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
Country Departnent 08
Project Appraisal Document
Madagascar
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Date: November 18, 1997                                                                         [1   Draft          [x   Final
Task Officer: Andreas Wildt                                            Country Manager: Michael Sarris
Project ID: MG-PA-1564                                                 Sector: Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan                           PTI:           []   Yes                [X]  No
Project Financing Data                                   []   Loan        [Xl  Credit         [ ]  Guarantee       [     Other [Specify
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$17.3 m/ SDR 12.6 m
Proposed Ters:                                             [     Multicurrency                Single curency
Grace period (years): 10                 []    Standard Variable      [    Fixed                []      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: not exceeding
1/2ofl %
Service charge: 0.75 %
...      ...       ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                            Local                   Foreign                Total
Government                                   3.43                     0.00                  3.43
Beneficiaries                                0.82                     0.00                 0.82
IBRD/IDA                                     2.90                    14.38                17.28
UNICEF                                       0.00                     0.76                 0.76
Total                                        7.15                    15.14                22.30
......................................."":.........................................................................................................................................................................................
Borrower: Republic of Madagascar
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)
Estimated disbursements (CY/US$M):                                   1998        1999        2000        2001        2002
Annual         6.08        4.02        3.66        2.81         0.71
Cumulative         6.08       10.10       13.76        16.57       17.28
For Guarantees:                                                             Partial Credit           Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                                          Yes                   [J    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: 03/22/1998                                                  Closing date: 12/31/2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 2
Country: Madagascar                                                            Project Title: Rural Water Suppty and Sanitaton Pilot Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The main objective of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project is to ensure an improved capacity of the government,
communities and private sector to expand a sustainable and cost-effective coverage in water supply and sanitation.
Progress toward this objective will be measured by the extent that: (1) realistic future projects are designed and funding
commitments are obtained in the sector by the year 2000; (2) adequate repair and maintenance is carried out in project areas,
and 70 percent of newly constructed or rehabilitated water systems are functioning properly two years after completion of
works; (3) the number of requests for new systems transmitted by communities to local agencies (NGOs or local governments)
reaches 500 by the year 2002; and that (4) at least four new companies for well and borehole construction are registered by end
of the project.
While the Project is expected to have a positive impact on the beneficiaries' lives, the actual health and social indicators such as
reduction of incidence of water borne diseases, increased life expectancy or overall poverty reduction cannot be realistically
measured. The effectiveness of the Project in improving these indicators will be dependent on other factors (as indicated in
Annex 1, Critical Assumptions and Risks) that are outside the scope of this Project. These factors include Government
commitment and donor community support for the sectoral strategy and overall improvement of hygiene and primary health
care in the project area.
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Costs are including taxes and contingencies
ComponCatetQc                                                       USSkn            % of
Total
(1) Policy and legal framework for the Water and Sanitation Sector                    policy            1.3           5.8%
. Assistance with the reformulation of the Water and Sanitation sector policy and
implementation strategy. This will entail redefinition of the roles of various actors in the
community, public and private sectors for sustainable delivery of water supply and
sanitation services. The issues to be considered will be the institutional, financial, O&M
and regulatory arrangements, technical options, social, IEC and environmental/health
aspects, as well cross sectoral interactions;
* Assistance for preparation of a Water Law;
. Assistance with communication and dissemination of information on sectoral policy and
legal framework.
(2) Water and Sanitation Sector Capacity Building and Institutional Development    institutional        3.6         16.1%
• Support to the Project Unit;                                                     development
. Water and Sanitation Sector Restructuring Study;                                 and capacity
. Assistance to the Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DEA) with implementation of  building
restructuring, training and capacity building;                                    for project
. Water Resources Management Study;                                                management
. Assistance for development of small contractors and companies (artisans, masons,
extension workers) in the sector and promotion of local private sector.
(3) Community Based Water and Sanitation Services (Pilot)
A/ Community needs assessment, education and support:
* Environmental/health, beneficiary and demand assessment;
* Studies on community financing/contribution mechanisms;
. Development of tools to facilitate community mobilization, hygiene education, and
establishment of a community request system (based on existing material and
experiences);
* Technology choice for water and sanitation services;                                Other             2.3          10.3%
* IEC campaigns.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 3
Country: Madagascar                                                            Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
BW Extension of Water and Sanitation Services executed with the assistance of:
.UNICEF for construction of village boreholes                                      physical and        15.1         67.7%
* FIKRIFAMA for construction of gravity systems                                      capacity
* CARITAS for construction of gravity systems                                        building
. Communities (civil works and recurrent costs)
Total                             22.3
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of the project is improved design and implementation of Water and Sanitation Projects in the Rural
Water Sector through development of a more conducive institutional and organizational framework. The project is designed
based on the experience of two NGOs and UNICEF active in the sector and will serve as a pilot to test the various technical
options and different approaches to design of O&M and community participation. The project will help improve the design and
implementation of future projects in the rural water sector by disseminating the lessons learnt under the project to all actors in
the sector: beneficiaries, Government, NGOs and the donor community. The project will assist MEM in the definition and
implementation of a comprehensive water sector policy and help improve the Government's efficiency in managing and
coordinating sectoral activities. Private sector skills will be developed in the area of construction and O&M of water systems.
The empowerment of local communities will encourage the beneficiaries to better formulate their demands for improved
services.
Other benefits of the project are improved quality of life through provision of safe water to about 300,000 beneficiaries in rural
areas. Extended use of safe water and better hygiene and sanitation would contribute to health benefits such as reduction of
morbidity and mortality due to water-related diseases. Project benefits will also consist of time saved by women and children in
the collection of water. This can further translate into improved productivity, development of income generating activities
(such as small vegetable gardening) and greater opportunities for education and training. By working with rural communities,
with adequate IEC support coordinated with health, education and agriculture sectors, the project will strengthen the
communities' capacity for expressing needs, demands and priorities, and for developing responsibilities and ownership over the
facilities.
Target population. The policy and capacity building components (components 1, 2 and 3) will address the whole water and
sanitation sector, and therefore benefit the general population of the country. The rural population, which accounts for 90
percent of the poor, as shown in the Poverty Assessment', will particularly benefit from the physical component of the project
(component 4). The project will identify villages which can benefit from assistance, and work with them, in areas where lack
of water supply and sanitation services is more obvious, and where UNICEF and NGOs are or will be active, in the southern
and central regions.
~~~~~~~~~..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years, from 1998 to 2002
Executing agencies: The DEA within the MEM will be responsible for implementing the Project. The MEM will-oversee the
overall sectoral policy and regulation aspects of the project. The staff of the Project Management Unit (PMU),
established within the DEA, have been officially nominated and are scheduled to receive training in project
management, disbursement and procurement during the initial phase of project implementation. The physical
components, simultaneously with IEC campaigns, will be carried out by specialized and qualified NGOs and by
UNICEF on the basis of their respective expertise and geographical distribution, in collaboration with the Water
Directorate's regional offices and under the supervision of the DEA. The NGOs (CARITAS and FIKRIFAMA) have
been selected on the basis of their past experience and performance record (also documented by an extemal evaluation
financed by the Swiss Cooperation). The Project Implementation Manual (PIM), defining the roles of the different
actors in the project and describing the project implementation guidelines, has been reviewed and commented by IDA
and, will serve as a dynamic guide through out the project life. The outreach strategy which is being developed in the
'Madagascar Poverty Assessment, Report No. 14044-MAG, June 28, 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 4
Country: Madagascar                                                  Project Tile: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
implementation manual will build on the successes of the existing UNICEFfNGO approaches, modifying them as
appropriate.
Project coordination: The DEA and the PMU will be responsible for the coordination of all project components.
Project oversight: Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM).
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
.  The PMU will be responsible for maintaining the accounts and records of funds disbursed under the project. The PMU
staff have been receiving training under the PPF in project management and in setting up the financial accounting
system. The accounts to be prepared by the PMU will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
terms of reference for the audits are included in the Implementation Manual. The PMU will prepare annual and
quarterly progress reports, work plans and budgets in a form and content to be agreed with IDA and to be included in
the Implementation Manual.
. UNICEF and the NGOs (FIKRIFAMA, CARITAS) will receive funding directly from the MEM based on projected
work programs; their accounts will also be audited separately by accountants acceptable to IDA.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The PMU will follow the guidelines set out in the PIM, and the project components
(including those implemented by UNICEF and the NGOs) will be examined yearly through technical, managerial and
financial audits. Beneficiary assessments and client consultations are planned on a yearly basis and will be used to
evaluate the impact of the project on a regular basis. The PMU will submit both quarterly and yearly reports on project
progress to MEM and IDA. Indicators of project progress are established and will be monitored periodically.
Block 2: Project Rationale
Document number and date of latest CAS discussion:
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project                CAS: Report No. 1628-MAG dated February 18, 1997
Strengthen sector capacity to develop efficient water supply and sanitation services.
Institutional capacity building in the water public sector (Direction de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement) will contribute to the CAS
objective of strengthening public sector capacity and providing a favorable environment for the delivery of quality and efficient
basic infrastructure services to address social needs.
Broad based growth and Human Capital development through community emnpowerment to reduce poverty.
By providing rural communities with access to safe water, the project will improve their living conditions and foster
development. The project, building on the experience and achievements of UNICEF and two other active NGOs in the sector,
will be used as a pilot after which future operations can be modeled. It is designed to promote local community empowerment
for tackling their development challenges. By focusing on rural communities that do not have access to safe water, the project
will benefit people from the poorest strata.
6Mansector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues: The main issues of the sub-sector are: (i) inadequacy of the existing sector policy, legal and regulatory
framework; (ii) inefficient sector organization and coordination; (iii) limited capacity to construct, operate and maintain
systems; (iv) inefficient promotion of community participation and sanitary education. The incapacity of the actors in the
public sector to plan and implement projects has contributed to the poor access to safe water and sanitation of the rural
population.
6.1.   Malagasy ruralpopulation 's access to safe water and sanitation, basic hygiene education and knowledge of benefits
of using safe water is very low. The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation sub-sector in Madagascar is characterized by a low
access to drinking water and inadequate level of hygiene and sanitation. The low level of basic hygiene education has resulted
in a low investment in water supply and sanitation schemes. Only 12 percent of the rural population has access to safe water
through rural gravity systems, wells or boreholes (1990-91, SSPA), and water quality is often low due to lack of maintenance
of the systems and pollution of surface water. Over 60 percent of households collect water from easily pollutable sources such
as lakes, rivers and ponds. In the South (Androy and Mahafaly areas) water is scarce, and only 7 percent of the population has
access to safe water; during the dry season (lasting from 8 to 12 months), people are often forced to look for water in the beds



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 5
Country: Madagascar                                                  Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
of dry rivers or to buy water from vendors on trucks at high prices (up to US$7 per cubic meter).
6.2.   Communities have not been given enough opportunity to articulate their demandfor water and sanitation schemes
and to communicate it to the public and private sector investors.
*  Community participation is not sufficiently promoted  Although some projects using strong community mobilization
have been successfully implemented (e.g., UNICEF "150 positive boreholes"), the lack of an extensive participatory
program has contributed in the past to the low impact of water projects. The present sector organization is not able to
address the issue of participation, and mechanisms to reach out to communities on a larger scale are yet to be designed.
*  Centralized organization of the water sector is not conducive to sector development, and prevents rural water issues
such as community participation and empowermentfrom being addressed Many govermmental agencies, all centralized
in Antananarivo, are involved in the sector. The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) is responsible through its
Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DEA) for developing water supply policy, assessing water resources and providing
general guidance for water supply services. The Directorates of Rural Engineering and of Water and Forestry are involved
in rural water supply, irrigation and water protection, while the Service of Sanitation (SAGS) of the Ministry of Health
oversees the health aspects of the sector. The inter-ministerial National Committee for Water and Sanitation (CNEA)
under the Ministry of Planning, with its Regional Committees (CREA -- created in 1996), is in charge of coordinating
actions in the sector. In 1995, CNEA completed a Sector Strategy and Action Plan (SSPA), aimed at define the
Government's policy and objectives in the sector . However, MEM and CNEA do not have the required capacity to
assume their roles, and their decentralized agencies at the regional level are still very weak.
*  Local capacity to build water and sanitation systems and ensure operation and maintenance is insufficient or non-
existent. The public sector has great difficulties in responding to the need for water supply infrastructure. The sector
suffers from low absorptive capacity, and private participation in the sector is almost non-existent. Although many NGOs
are active in the sector, few of them have the required technical and human capacity to build water systems on a sustainable
basis. The most experienced ones are members of the Water NGOs Network supported by the Swiss Cooperation (among
them are FIKRIFAMA, Caritas, FJKM, TARATRA). Operation and maintenance of existing systems suffer from: (i) low
technical training; and (ii) high costs of field missions due to scarcity of skilled human resources and high costs of spare
parts. As a result, there is a great need for ensuring training and support -- administrative, managerial, and technical -- to
small local private sector enterprises such as well diggers, repair and maintenance artisans, and spare parts distributors.
6.3.   Madagascar does not provide an enabling environmentfor water sector developmentfrom a policy, legal, etc. point
of view.
*  The legal and regulatory framework for the water sector is unclear and needs to be reformed  According to a 1974
decree (Ordonnance 74-002), the State has the exclusive right to carry out all operations in the water supply sector, in the
country; all installations are theoretically part of the public domain of the State. However, many other official documents
also deal with water, preventing a coherent vision of the sector. Key issues, such as sanitation, hygiene education, asset
ownership, responsibility for investment, operation and maintenance, rehabilitation, etc., still need to be addressed from a
legal point of view. Customary rights are not integrated into the national legislation, although their existence is mentioned
and recommended to be respected. Information about the content of the water legislation is inadequate at the level of local
communities. The legal and regulatory framework is critical in the context of decentralization in Madagascar.
Reformulation of the Water Law and by-laws would provide a favorable regulatory enviromnent for sector development.
*  The Government has yet to define a unified sectoral approach for water supply and sanitation projects. It has not
succeeded in coordinating actions among various donors within the sector or across sectors. Several agencies have been
created with donors' support outside Antananarivo to deal with specific projects in the rural water sector, mainly in the
South, such as Operation Alimentation en Eau dans le Sud, Relance du Sud, Operation Micro-Realisations, Operation
Microhydraulique. UNICEF and some NGOs such as FIKRIFAMA, CARITAS, FJKM are very active and efficient in the
provision of rural water supply. But the multiplicity of actors and the dispersion or inadequacy of their actions underline
the absence of a well-defined sector policy. Lack of coordination among the various government agencies and sector's
partners has thus added to the sector's disorganization and inefficiency. Coordination among donors has also proven
insufficient. Each actor develops its own methodology on technical matters and on implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 6
Country: Madagascar                                                     Project Tile: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
* Cost recovery has not been promoted enough in the past. There is national consensus that at least partial cost recovery is
required for sustainable service delivery. In some projects, coverage of O&M costs is required from rural communities.
However, current practice involves little or no enforcement of cost recovery both in urban and rural areas.
6.4.    Other issues inpede rural development. Deforestation and soil erosion are widespread in the country and threaten
water resources in quality and quantity: farmers commonly practice bush fire to fertilize soil and improve pasture yields and
firewood is the most common source of energy. In many rural areas, development is hampered also by lack of other basic
infrastructure such as roads, schools, health centers. Security of some rural areas is a crucial issue.
Government strategy
6.5.   In the 1974 Decree, the Government set a very general national policy for the water sector, without any time horizon. It
aims at:
*  extending gradually water infrastructure to all of the territory, in line with national policies for economic and sociat
development;
*  identifying all means to make water available to the national community at the best possible conditions;
*  standardizing progressively operation modalities.
The decree also stipulates that water tariffs must cover all expenses, including depreciation and financial charges, and
generate a reasonable surplus as a contribution to investment. In addition, it empowers municipalities to impose specific
taxes for the payment of public consumption of water. The policy does not address any of the cross-sectoral water relates
issues.
6.6.   In May 1995, the Government approved the Sector Strategy and Action Plan (SSPA) completed by CNEA. It aims at
defining the global and operational objectives in the water and sanitation sector. The global objective is to increase to 79
percent the present water connection rate of 29 percent, and to 51 percent the present sanitation rate of 16 percent by 2010. The
long term operational objectives are to: (i) enhance the sector contribution to public health improvement, and (ii) strengthen
the sector participation in the social and economic development process. In ur-banxare, the medium term objectives (by 2005)
are to provide the unserved cities with water supply systems and to increase the sanitation coverage to 60 percent. The short
term objectives are to optimize water use management, to minimize water waste, to provide the poorest with safe water, and to
reorganize the sanitation sub-sector. In rural areas, the medium term objective is to raise the current water supply level of 12
percent to 50 percent, and the current sanitation level of 5 percent to 30 percent. The short term objectives are to alleviate the
water fetching burden by reducing time and effort, to provide populations with safe water, and to raise the sanitation service
level.
The SSPA finally recommends to specify the role of the different actors, to emphasize national skills and know-how and to
encourage community participation at each stage of the sector development.
The Government strategy for the water sector would rely on seven key ideas: (i) institutional development and
responsibilization of actors, (ii) stronger private participation and withdrawal of the State, (iii) well balanced decentralization,
(iv) community participation and social mobilization, (v) training and professionalization, (vi) water resources and environment
protection, and (vii) information and health education of the population.
6.7.   Yet the SSPA remains a very generic document and the Government is now preparing a Water Sector Policy Letter to
explain its strategy to address the issues raised by the SSPA. The first letter, drafted in 1996, proposes the following measures
for the whole water sector (rural and urban):
(a) Institutional reorganization. The Government would adopt a Water law, specify the role of the different actors, strengthen
sector coordination, and adopt a tariff policy aiming at economic development and social equity.
(b) Municipalities and Decentralized communities responsabilization. The Government would enhance their role in the sector
management.
(c) Promotion of private sector and NGOs.
(d) Promotion of beneficiary community responsibilization. The Government plans to transfeT management and possibly
ownership to users associations in order to achieve sustainability.
(e) Master plans for development and management of water consumption.
(f) Incentives for private connections.
(g) Creation of a Special Fund for Water and Sanitation, to be defined.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 7
Country: Madagascar                                                            Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
The Government now needs to define: (a) how the State -- at central and decentralized level --, communes, donors, private
sector and NGOs will intervene in the sector; (b) what the responsibilities of the municipalities and grass-root communities will
be as far as ownership, financing and other contributions, management, operation and maintenance of water infrastructure are
concerned; (c) what will be the mechanisms for the financing of infrastructure.
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Provision of access to safe water is a crucial issue for human capital development, one of the CAS objectives. Because of the
very low capacity in the sector, access to safe water cannot be expanded in the short term. The strategic choice, based on IDA
experience in the sector, is to fuse the long tern  goal of building sector capacity with short tern  targets for delivering water
services. Therefore the project will: (i) prepare for the medium and long term by improving sector capacity; and (ii) finance
pilot service delivery in rural areas for about 300,000 beneficiaries building on previous work of NGOs and UNICEF.
Outreach to beneficiaries. A central issue to be addressed by the project is the development of mechanisms allowing the
articulation of local demand by the beneficiary communities, and its communication to public and private sector stakeholders
able to deliver services; this issue entails institutional strengthening and involvement of local governments.
But local authorities (Collectivitds Decentralisdes, decentralized agencies, etc.) are weak, and the project is part of a general
donors' effort to assist the Government in addressing more directly beneficiaries needs through the decentralization process
(e.g., regional AGETIPA, support to municipal management). In the context of an over-concentrated sector organization and of
efforts toward decentralization, the project will be interacting both with central government and grass-root communities. Water
sector development will be considered as an opportunity to build up local institutions and capacity.
Community participation, Gender issues and Cost recovery. Communities need to take charge of their water supply and
sanitation infrastructure. Therefore community mobilization and participation are paramount. Communities will be given the
opportunity to initiate the construction of water supplies and to take full responsibility for operation and maintenance. They
will have to assume operation and maintenance costs and a small part of capital costs, mainly in kind (labor, site preparation).
To support these community efforts, an important component of IEC is integrated into the project design. In the selected
villages, special attention will be given to the voices of women. How they perceive and experience issues related to water
resources, water supply, water management, the end use of water, and hygiene practices and sanitation services/facilities
(excreta disposal), will be an integral part of the decision making process of the project.
Institutions and policy. On the policy side, the project will promote dialogue between the central government and all other
stakeholders. The project will help the Government to define its sector policy and strategy and to reformulate the Water Law.
In order to manage development at the local level, decentralized agencies will be strengthened and empowered to coordinate
and carry out technical control. Increased private participation in the sector will be promoted.
Operation and maintenance, and construction capacity. To prepare an expanded rural project and raise the low absorptive
capacity for water supply and sanitation construction, the project will aim to: (a) develop entrepreneurial skills in the public
sector to enable the drilling unit of the DEA to be independently contracted for future operations; and (b) develop the private
sector's technical and commercial capacity. This will contribute to lower investment costs by the use of appropriate
technology, which, in turn, should ensure replicability and sustainability.
Coordination. The project will strengthen Government capacity to coordinate actions in the water sector and among sectors.
The project will also coordinate with other IDA (and non IDA) projects active in rural areas (health and education).
Community sensitization and mobilization will be the main areas of coordination.
The project will also develop a national implementation strategy to which all ESA partners can subscribe, building on the work
of UNICEF/NGOs and facilitating coordination.
Sanitation. Hygiene and sanitary education and IEC activities will necessarily be part of the project. Mobilization campaign will be carried
out with the support of facility constructions.
~~~~~~~~~~~~...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rural Pilot Project versus Water Sector Project. IDA has since 1995 been preparing a Water Sector Project, which would have
encompassed urban and rural components. In view of delays in the preparation of the urban components of the project, linked
to the restructuring of the public utility company for water supply, and given the urgent need to establish a sector policy and the
appropriate institutional framework, the Government has requested that the Bank separate the rural and urban projects and
proceed with the present pilot project. The pilot project would provide assistance on policy and institutional development, and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 8
Country: Madagascar                                                     Project Tite: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
finance rural water schemes constructed by UNICEF and two NGOs to test the implementation methods and tools. The Bank
and UNICEF have prepared an evaluation of the impact of the first UNICEF operation consisting of construction of 150
boreholes in the South. The evaluation results will be taken into account in the implementation of UNICEF's operation under
the pilot project. Also, as the implementation period is quite long for a pilot project (five years), during project implementation
yearly assessment will be conducted to gather and disseminate information on lessons learnt for design and implementation of
other Water Sector projects. The five year implementation will be needed to build the foreseen water systems -- given the
limited absorptive capacity of the sector - and provide the necessary follow-up IEC.
Project Management Unit: recruiting external skilled staff versus building on the existing DEA staff An efficient and skilled
Project Management Unit is necessary to ensure better project implementation (excepting the physical component, which will
be conducted by UNICEF and NGOs). Although DEA staff does not satisfy all the capacity requirements of the job, IDA has
agreed with the Government to staff the PMU from within the MEM (except for the project accountant who will be hired from
the private sector), and train them in the areas of project implementation and management. The development of DEA capacity
at the central and regional level will help the Govermment to better manage both the present and future operations. It will also
allow for better communication and transfer of know how between the implementing agencies (UNICEF and the NGOs) and
the DEA staff. The main challenge facing the PIU is to quickly develop the capacity to ensure proper project execution.
Works implementation: local private sector and NGOs versus international contractors. The previous operation managed by
UNICEF (150 boreholes) hired a private foreign company to conduct works. The operation was successful but expensive. On
the other hand, the use of NGOs and small private sector would lower dramatically the costs, while employing local work
force.
Using intermediary agencies to manage works. UNICEF and NGOs have been selected for project implementation on the
basis of their comparative advantage built upon their successful experiences in the respective technical and geographical areas.
UNICEF and NGOs will be delegated the full implementation of works, including procurement management. The use of these
intermediary agencies might be feared to delay the process of decentralization by substituting for local governments, which do
not have yet the absorptive capacity. However, NGO involvement in the capacity building process and a sound definition of
their role would shield the project from this risk; UNICEF is already strongly involved in and committed to capacity building in
the water sector.
Balance between physical and institutional/capacity building components. The project will benefit from linking policy and
institutional development processes with pilot works. In the present project, the physical component is not the main outcome,
and through it the project aims at developing the sectoral policy and improving capacity.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Sector issue                                Project               Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
11!      DOQ
Bank-financed
In Madagascar
Protection of water resources and environment (completed)  HASSA
Protection of water resources and environment - Community level   Environment II
microprojects (ongoing, recently approved)
Support conmmunity development through partnership with NGOs    Social Fund 2 (Fonds d'Intervention pour le  S  S
and beneficiary communities (ongoing)                   Developpement (FID))
Community participation (ongoing / under preparation)   Education Sector Reinforcement Project   S         S
Strengthening of capacity at local and higher levels of government   Decentralized Infrastructure Management
to support the development of infrastructure and other services  Project
(under preparation)
Low access to water and sanitation services in urban areas.  Water sector Project
Rehabilitation and extension of water supply in 14 cities and rural
areas. (under preparation)



Projet Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 9
Country: Madagascar                                                           Project Tite: Rural Water Supply and Saniaton Pilot Project
Lack of basic hygiene education, community mobilization. (under    Health/Nutrition project
preparation)
In other countries
Demonstration of the new sector strategy to maximize impact and    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation     S          S
use of water and sanitation facilities and to ensure that future  Benin (FY94)
development of the sector will actually respond to the demand of
the population; decentralized approach to investment decisions and
creation of an enabling environment for local contractors and
consultants.
Other develoemnt agencies
Low access to water and sanitation in rural areas in the South,  UNICEF - Projet 150 forages
hygiene education.
Low access to safe water in rural areas in the South. Provision of    JICA. AES- Alimentation en Eau dans le
trucked water.                                              Sud
Access to water in rural areas. Provision of piped water to rural and  SWISS COOPERATION - "Programme
semi urban areas, through NGOs. Assistance to the water NGO  d'Appui aux ONG du Reseau Eau a
network.                                                    Madagascar"
.......................................... ......................................................................................................................................................................................
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Although there has been no previous IDA operation in the rural water sub-sector in Madagascar, lessons can be drawn from
past experience with the Government, and from other sectors, donors and countries.
From the preparation of the Sectoral Strategy and Action Plan (SSPA), the lesson drawn is that the project needs to be shielded
from institutional risks such as low coordination between implementing agencies, lack of experience, financial and human
resources, lack of managerial and administrative skills, etc.. To reflect this lesson, the project will provide institutions with
training and assistance, and the physical content will be as detailed as possible before credit approval. Moreover, the project
strategy should match the absorptive and delivery capacity of the implementing agencies.
The following lessons have been drawn from IDA's social sector and environment projects (Social Fund 2 (FID), Health and
Education, Environment (PE2)), from its worldwide experience of community-based rural water projects (e.g. Benin) and from
UNICEF experience ("150 forages positifs"):
(a) IDA, UNICEF and NGO projects show that community participation and empowerment can be successful in Malagasy rural
areas. When adequately informed, villagers have proven their commitment and participation: water points committees have
been set up and collection of fees for O&M is ensured. Therefore, the project should continue to promote community
participation, and to respond up-front to community demand, commitment and participation; emphasis should be on village
based management of projects and use of extension workers and local artisans.
(b) Operation and maintenance of facilities are often a weak point. Using the experience of UNICEF's "150 boreholes"
project, the pilot project will promote networks of artisans for repair and maintenance, and spare part distributors.
(c) Long term commitment and follow-up (IEC, assistance) have to be provided to villages after the works are completed in
order to ensure sustainability.
(d) Per capita cost of construction can be very high, especially for boreholes. To lower these costs in future operations, the
project will aim at strengthening local public and private sector capacity to perform their different roles; it will for instance
develop entrepreneurial skills in the drilling unit of the DEA.
(e) The location of the water pumps and standpipes will be based on social and cultural considerations related to the fetching of
water and customary laws.
(f) The location of sanitary facilities has to be strategic and focused on the younger generations, because attitudes and behavior
of young people are easier to change than those of adults.



PrjectAppraisal Document                                                                                                                 Page 10
Country: Madagascar                                                                           Project rie: Rural Water Supply and Sanitabon Pilot Project
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
11. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership:
DEA has organized on April 9 to 11, 1997, a round table on the water sector to discuss its sector policy and strategy. A large
consensus arose from this meeting arnong actors on the sector's issues and on the need for a comprehensive policy. The
participants have formulated recommendations, which should be included in the sector strategy. The draft Water Law has been
distributed and the CNEA is now preparing a workshop to discuss it.
Following the success of the first UNICEF project (Projet 150 forages), the Ministry has been conducting other rural water
supply operations. This is supported by a strong beneficiary commitment: UNICEF follow-up unit has received 339 requests
for a borehole from villages in the project southern area (as of March 1997), and NGOs have pending requests from villagers.
12.... Value....... added....... of..... Bank...... support:.... ..........................................................................................................................................1:....................
The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project will be the first comprehensive project in the water sector in Madagascar
to address both technical problems and the institutional, legal and environmental issues of the sector. IDA has extensive
experience in the water sector, where sustainability can be improved through community management and participation.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment (see   [X]   Cost-Benefit Analysis:
Annex 4):                                NPV=US$3.56 millions;
ERR= 17 %
The project is justified on social grounds as it will provide safe water and hygiene education to about 300,000
beneficiaries from rural areas. The expected project benefits are (a) savings in resources (time or money) spent to fetch
water, (b) increased use of water, and (c) diminution of occurrence of water related diseases, inducing a reduction in
health expenditure and in productivity losses. A cost-benefit analysis has been conducted on this basis for the physical
component of the project. It shows that the project is economically justified.
Fiscal impact (for all projects):
The amount of taxes related to project activities is of about US$3.1 million. These taxes will be the main contribution
of the Central Government. At the community level, villages and users' associations will provide the necessary funds
to cover the incremental maintenance recurrent costs.
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)
The project will develop mechanisms to promote cost-recovery. At the community level, this would be done by
promoting community mobilization to bring them to finance part of the investment costs, and to put them fully in
charge of systems operation and maintenance. The table presented in annex 5 shows that communities will have to
bear the total O&M costs, which amount to about US$50,000 a year (for the 680 water systems).
The project will also finance studies to explore financing mechanisms for water and sanitation extensions in rural areas.
15. Technical Assessment:
a. UNICEF boreholes
The technical solution proposed by UNICEF consists of a borehole equipped with a hand pump. It has been
experimented successfully during the first project " 150 positive boreholes in the South" in 1994-95.
The innovation will be the use of the pump India Mark III in replacement of the pump India Mark II previously used.
This will result in easier O&M activities.
b. Gravity pipe systems (FIKRIFAMA and CARITAS)
The two NGOs have been building gravity systems for over 10 years with the same technology.
c. Studies for selection of appropriate technology will be carried out.
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 11
Country: Madagascar                                                     Project Tite: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
~~~~~~~~~~..    .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
16. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies:
The executing agency for the Rural Water and Sanitation Pilot Project is the Directorate of Water and sanitation (DEA)
in the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). Project management is delegated to the Project Unit, which has been set
up with staff of DEA.
* The EQiect Unit consists of a project director, a project manager, an administrative assistant, two technical
assistants. Except for the project director, who is assuming other responsibilities (esp. coordination with
UNICEF), all project unit staff are dedicated to the project on a full-time basis.
DEA/PMU delegates the management of the fourth component (physical) to the delegated executing agencies, namely
UNICEF and the two NGOs, FIKRIFAMA and CARITAS.
*  UNICEF will be in charge of the sub-component "500 positive boreholes in the South" (comp.3.B.1);
* FIKRIFAMAwill be in charge of the sub-component "140 gravity pipe systems" (comp. 3.B.2.);
* CARITAS will be in charge of the sub-component "40 gravity pipe systems" (comp. 3.B.3.).
The physical components have two main aspects: Information, Education, Communication (IEC) and the technical
installation of water supply systems.
The IEC experiences of the three implementing agencies (CARITAS, FIKRIFAMA - NGOs and UNICEF) are of
varying quality. The NGOs have poor records in that field, while UNICEF has the most qualified experience even
though limited, in the particular domain of water and sanitation. The project will provide training to build up the
NGOs' capacity and strengthen the human resource capacity of UNICEF.
The technical component of the project follows a classical set up which is well mastered by the three implementing
agencies. All three have long field experiences and good performances in that domain. Additional human resource
capacity will, however, be provided by the project in order to ensure the qualitative and quantitative objectives of the
project. Further, the performance of the two NGOs in the field of documentation and reporting is yet to be developed
and this will be addressed by the project through training.
b. Project management:
A detailed assessment of the PMU, its organizational set-up, and staff qualification has been discussed and agreed with
the DEA.
17. Social Assessment:
The majority of the population in Madagascar believes that water coming from pumps is of better quality than water
available from the river and open pools of water. Women have stated that one of the main advantages of taking part in
the project, besides having pure water, is being able to grow vegetables year-round with water from a pump. It
diversifies the diet of the families and provides additional sources of income for women. Furthermore, lack of access to
potable water is perceived and expressed as a problem by stakeholders in the rural areas. A two-pronged approach is
being taken to address this issue: first, two national NGOs have taken the lead by building institutional mechanisms for
local communities to voice their needs, and by assisting them to build potable water systems; second, local
communities are addressing effective demands to NGOs and government agencies for assistance in building potable
water systems. Demand for the services to be provided by the project is increasing and all water systems to be build by
the NGOs are based on effective demand from the local communities. This project is not only feasible but will also
make a difference in the life quality of the target population and will enhance the sector capacity of NGOs and the
government.
Gender issues
Awareness about gender issues is a necessary first step in addressing the problem. Gender issues are addressed in the
project designs developed by the NGOs and UNICEF. In the case of water supply in rural Madagascar, gender issues
imply empowerment of women. Women will be consulted on how they perceive and experience issues related to water
resources, water supply, water related diseases, water management and the end use of water. As traditionally done, the
three implementing agencies will put in place mechanisms to encourage and support women's participation in the
decision making process. Women participation in the village water committee will be thoroughly sought, and
responsibility for relaying hygiene information will be given to a woman chosen among the villagers.



Projec Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 12
Country: Madaascar                                                           Project Tite: Rural Water Suppy and Sanitation Pilot Project
18. Environmental Assessment:    Environmental Category    [ ] A    [X) B     [ ]   C
The project is classified as a category B project and no environmental assessment was therefore required. The
environmental impact is assumed to be very local as the project does not imply the use of heavy infrastructure facilities.
An environmental impact analysis has been reviewed and commented on by IDA during negotiations, the end product
of the analysis, an operational environmental mitigation checklist will be included in the Implementation Manual,
which will be finalized by Credit Effectiveness to be used by the implementing agencies. The major focus of the
analysis will be on the capacity of the aquifers to support the proposed project without significant adverse
environmental impacts, including the following aspects:
(i) Identify the principal characteristics of the ecosystems in the three project areas and their sensitivity to variations in
the water regime;
(ii) Characterize the capacity of the aquifers to support the proposed project actions, in particular: the potential impacts
on the recharge areas and catchment areas, project water extraction versus recharge, potential sources of contamination,
water quality;
(iii) Suggest management strategies, institutional and social arrangements to protect the quality of the water and
ecosystems, and maintain a sustainable extraction.
The environmental analysis will be available by early 1998. It will include an estimate of the financial resources
necessary to monitor the environmental mitigation plan, and will recommend the institutional organization required for
its monitoring.
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19. Participatory Approach                    Preparation                     Implementation            Operation
Beneficiaries/community               COL (physical)                        COL                     COL
groups            Beneficiary assessment        . Beneficiaries will take part
to the works and be
involved in the whole
process.
Intermediary NGOs.          COL (physical component)                    COL                    CON
CON (policy & institutional component)   Responsible for works,     Responsible for
NGOs will be responsible for the beneficiaries   community organization.  supervision and follow-
identification and sensitization.                               up of operations
UNICEF                      COL                              COL                     COL
Government (MEM, CNEA)                        COL                               COL                     COL
Local governments                     IS                               CON                     COL
Other donors                  CON / IS                         CON / IS                   IS
CON (policy and institutional development)   CON (policy and
IS (other)              . institutional development)
IS (other)
N.B. IS: InformationSharing,CON: Consultation,COL: Collaboration



Proect Appraisal Docurnent                                                                                                  Page 13
County: Madagascar                                                                   Prject TWie: Rural Water Supply and Saniton Pilot Project
2i -' S    i     ............................................................. .  ---------------------------------...................................
The project will help the Government to put in place new legal, institutional and financial arrangements in the water
supply and sanitation sector. Coordination capacity will be also improved. Technical sustainability is linked to the
definition of national standards for small civil works based on the promotion of appropriate technology. The
development of private sector participation (SME, artisans and NGOs) in works, repair, maintenance and spare parts
management is a critical factor. At the community level, beneficiaries will be given full responsibility for operation
and maintenance of rural water points and will partially assume cost recovery. Sustainability is also linked to the
provision of follow up after project completion, as community mobilization and hygiene education have proven weak if
not nurtured after facilities have been built.
.... ........................................................................................................................ .............................. ........ ...................................................................................
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
R                            Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs   Lack of resources at the local government level         MR        Implementation of extensive IEC campaigns will
to development  (human and financial); lack of incentives for staff                 support the project activities, and use of local
objectives        improvement.                                                      NGOs will maximize local resources development.
Present sources of water do not remain viable at       MR
foreseen capacity and quality (external
contamination).
People are little interested in taking responsibilities  NR
in the management of their infrastructure.
Population does not have time, financial resources,
and interest in participating to sensitization
campaigns; social customs impede sensitization         NR
campaigns.
The pump may contribute to create water pools that
in their turn may attract mosquitoes into the villages  NR
and increase risk for malaria.
Rk                           Risk Ratina             Risk Mjnmization Measure
Project           Government is not committed to sector reform            MR        Development of a strong participatory approach
components to   (legal, institutional, policy, etc.)                                together with other donors (organization of
outputs                                                                             roundtable, workshop, etc.)
Institutional capacity is insufficient to maintain     MR         Training will be provided at an early stage of the
implementation schedule.                                          project to improve PMU and DEA capacity.
Beneficiaries are neither interested nor committed               The selection process of beneficiaries should
to the project. Sensitization campaigns are not        MR         minimize this risk. However, villagers' interest is
properly designed.                                                strongly threatened by any delay in
implementation..
Works are not completed as per design, according       NR         Supervision of works will be conducted.
to standards, using appropriate technology.
Poor collaboration with the NGOs and UNICEF
NR        Regular meetings will be held under the
responsibility of MEM to improve coordination.
Ovra.ll Risk Rating                                                       MR
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversial use of water at the village level (rating 2)
The protection of the water catchments against soil erosion (red sediments) is contradictory with the practice of bush fire, which
farmers commonly use to fertilize soil and improve pasture yields. Consultation among the villagers will be necessary to
address this issue.



ProjectAppraisal Document                                                                                       Page 14
Country: Madagascar                                                          Project Title: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Govemance (rating 3)
The monopolistic role of the State in the provision of water supply and sanitation, stated in the 1974 decree, will be addressed
during the project Experience has shown that the State cannot respond to the needs from rural communities, as explained in
section 6. Therefore, through preparation of a Water Law and reformulating of the sectoral policy, and together with sector
reorganization, reformulating of roles and responsibilities of all the actors in the sector will be pursued. DEA's restructuring
should strengthen the decentralized management and decision making process. There remains the risk of resistance at the
central governent level as it foresees the decrease of its influence.
Management Capacity (rating 2).
Project design includes adequate support for the management entities (DEA).
Overall rating: low
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
Contractual Implementation Arrangements: The following would be conditions of Credit Effectiveness: (i) the Implementation
Manual will be finalized in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (ii) adequate financial management and accounting system of the
Project will be established and auditors will be recruited; and (iii) an initial deposit of US$50,000 equivalent will be made into
the Project Account.
24. Other [classify according to convenant types used in the Legal Agreements database.]
None
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]    [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The fect complies with all other applicable
Bank policies.]                                                        / i
[signature]                                                    [signature]
Task Officer: Andreas Wildt                                  Country   anager: Michael  rris



Annex I
Page I of 4
Annex 1
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions and
Risks
CAS Objective                                                                     (CAS Objective to Bank
Strengthen sector capacity to   CAS indicator: % of-  Government data             Mission)
develop efficient water    population with access to safe  Beneficiary assessment
supply and sanitation      water in urban and rural areas
services.
Broad based growth and
Human Capital development
through community
empowerment to reduce
poverty.
Project Development                                                               (Development Objectives to
Objective                                                                         CAS Objective)
Improved capacity of the   realistic future project   - mid-term review by        Government support to water
Government, communities    designed and funding       Governent and IDA           sector contnues.
and private sector to expand a  designend funding       o m       ns                     nu
sustainable and cost-effective  scommitme  oed inth    - beneficiary assessment in    Donors community supports
coverage in water supply and  sector by the year 2000  selected areas (mid term, end   Government strategy for the
sanitation.                adequate repair and        of project, two years later)    sector.
maintenance carried out in..
maintenanctrea card out peent   - progress and supervision  Global hygiene, primary
project areas, and 70 percent  reports (DEA, IDA) mid  health care (Health National
of newly constructed or   term, end of project and two   Program), and access to
functioing properlyarw     years later.               school (Education Program),
functioning properly two                              are improved in project area.
years after completion of
works
number of seriously
committed requests for new
systems transmitted by
communities to local agencies
(NGOs or local governments)
reaches 500 by the year 2002
at least four new companies
for wells and boreholes
construction registered by
end of project



Annex I
Paga 2 of 4
Project Outputs                                                                      (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
(1) Sector policy and legal  Sector policy and action plan    Letter from Ministry of Energy
framework are designed      approved by Government by    and Mines
2000.                       Official publications
Water law presented to the
Assembly by 1999, by-laws
issued by Ministry of Energy
and Mines by 1999.
(2) Sector re-organization  revised organization plan    - plan transmitted by MEM   Existence of resources at the
reform carried out and capacity  designed by 1999 and    - activity nports from the  local level (human and
built.                      implemented by 2001          MEM (central and            financial); existence of
effective donor coordination    decentralized)           inprovemrta
established by 2000                                      Inprovement.
manpower development plan
prepared by 1990,
implementation of the first two
years of plan by 2001.
time from TOR to contract
reduced by 20 % by 2001
(3)Community based Water    studies conducted by end of    reports
and Sanitation Services     project
Developed
A/ Studies carried out and IEC
strategy developed and
implemented
B/ Water supply and sanitation  500 boreholes and 180 gravity   UNICEF and NGO progress /   Present sources of water
installations constructed and    systems built by end of project.  supervision reports  remain viable at foreseen
hygiene education carried out.  each standpipe / pump is  NGO/participatory assessments  capacity and quality (no
managed by a users association
/ committee by end of project                            People are interested in taking
community water fund at least                           responsibilities in the
equals 50,000 Fmg x100 days                             management of their
infrastructure.
per year.
time taken before the standpipe                          Population has time, financial
is repaired reduced.                                     resources and interest in
participating to sensitization
percentage of population over                            campaigns; social customs do
5 having attended 1                                     not impede sensitization
sensitization presentation                              campaigns.
increased to 30% by end of                              The pump does not contribute
project.                                                to create water pools that in
their turn may attract
mosquitoes into the villages
and increase risk for malaria.



Annex I
__Page3of 4
Project Components       Inputs (costs include taxes                          Components to Outputs
and contingencies)
(1) Policy and legal                     US$1.3 M  Progress reports           Government is committed
framework for the Water                             Superision reports       to sector reform (legal,
and Sanitation Sector.                                                        institutional, policy, etc.)
* Assistance with the                                                         Institutional capacity is
reformulation of the water                                                   sufficient to maintain
and sanitation sector                                                        implementation schedule
policy and implementation                                                    Beneficiaries are interested
strategy;                                                                    and committed to the
* Assistance with the                                                         project (good
preparation of a Water                                                       communication with
Law;                                                                         beneficiaries). Sensitization
* Assistance with                                                             campaigns are properly
communication and                                                            designed.
dissemination of                                                             Works are completed as per
information on sector                                                        design, according to
policy and legal                                                             standards, using appropriate
framework.                                                                  technology.
(2) Water and Sanitation                                                      Good collaboration with the
Sector Reorganization and                US$3.6 M                             NGOs and UNICEF
Capacity Building
* Support to the Project
Unit;
* Water and sanitation
sector restructuring study;
* Assistance to DEA with
implementation of
restructuring, training and
capacity building;
* Water resources
management study;
Assistance for the
development of small
contractors and companies
(artisans, masons, extension
workers) in the sector and
promotion of local private
sector.



Annex I
Page 4 of 4
(3) Community Based       Studies and consultant
Water and Sanitation      services
Services (Pilot)                          US$2.3 M
A/
* Environmental/health,
beneficiary and demand
assessments;
* Studies on community
financing/contribution
mechanisms;
* Development of tools to
facilitate community
mobilization, hygiene
education, and IEC
(building on existing
materials);
* Technology choice for
water and sanitation
services;
* IEC campaigns
Bl
* Construction of village                US$15.1 M
boreholes with UNICEF             studies and works
and gravity pipe systems
with Fikrifama and Caritas



Annex 2
pagze I of 
Annex 2
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - Policy and legal framework for the Water and Sanitation sector
US$0.95 million (base cost excluding contingencies and taxes)
US$1.24 million (including taxes and contingencies)
The specific objective of this component is to provide a favorable policy and legal framework for water
supply and sanitation sector development in Madagascar. Because the development challenge for water and
sanitation is not exclusively rural, both urban and rural sub-sectors will be addressed in this component.
This component consists of:
1.1. Assistance with reformulation of the water and sanitation sector policy and implementation
arrangemet.
First go. The project will assist the Government to draft a sector policy and terms of reference for a study
for its development. These activities will be financed under the PPF.
Second s. The project will assist the Govermment in reformulating its sector policy, with a special focus
on redefinition of the roles of the community, public, private partners in the sustainable delivery of water supply
and sanitation services. Also, there would need to be consideration of a range of issues such as: the institutional,
fmancial, O&M and regulatory arrangements; the broad technical considerations; the social, IEC and
environmental/health aspects; and the cross sectoral interactions. Since the reformulation of sector policy requires a
good knowledge of the sector, completion of other studies (see after) is a prerequisite. As a result, the present study
is scheduled for the third year of the project.
International consultant services. USS360.000
1.2. Assistance for preparation of a Water Law
The project will assist the Government to reformulate the Water Law and to draft by-laws, in order to
provide an enabling legal environment. This will require proper attention to: basic guidance on water supply and
sanitation services; protection of the environmental assets and health; and allocation of water among the different
sectors.
Under this sub-component, the project will finance:
-       consultant services for the water law reform study (being financed under a PPF)
-       consultant services to draft by-laws
International consultant services, US$180.000
1.3. Communication/dissemination activities on sector policy and legal framework
The project will assist the Govemment to organize workshops, meetings, roundtables, or any other activity,
to promote enforcement of water sector policy and regulations.
Consultant services, US$ 150,000
other activities to be defined, US$260,000



Annex 2
pagze 2 of 5
Project Component 2 - Water and Sanitation Sector Reorganization and Capacity Building
US$2.6 millions (base cost excluding contingencies and taxes)
US$3.4 millions (including taxes and contingencies)
The objective of this component is to ensure that: sector organization is relevant to the policy framework;
sector public and private capacity is responsive to the great demand (especially from rural areas); and eventually
wider operations can be planned and implemented in the medium/long term (ideally before end of project). This
component aims at institutional and capacity building in the whole sector (urban and rural).
Sector reorganization will be designed in coordination with the decentralization process under preparation.
The long term objective is to get capacity at the local level both in public and private sector, with a proper definition
of the roles. Local governments capacity is low; therefore, the project will start working both with the centralized
DEA and the private sector, and expand cooperation with local governments as they increase in capacity. However,
as a first step, support will be provided to the Project Unit in charge of the present project.
This component consists of:
2.0. Suport to Project Unit
* Support for organization and setting up of the Unit, training and consultant services.
* Equipments
*  Support to operation
USS800.000: US$450,000 for training and consultant services: US$200.000 for equipments; US$150.000 for
operating cos
2.1. Water and Sanitation sector reorganization
The project will finance a study on sector reorganization in the context of decentralization, responsibilization of
Collectivites Decentralis&es and communities, and state withdrawal. The study will aim to get sector organization
in compliance with the philosophy of the draft sector policy letter (activity 1. 1.).
The outcome of the study will be propositions for sector reorganization, strategy and action plan, and terms of
reference for a study focused on DEA reorganization.
International consultant services, US$500.000
2.2. Assistance to the Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DEA) with reorganization, training and
capacity building.
The project will first finance a study on DEA reorganization. Training and other measures to support adaptation to
new roles will be designed and implemented.
US$50.000: US$250.000 for study and US$ 100.000 for traiing
2.3. Water resources management study
International consultant services; USS350,000
2.4. Support to the development of private sector and promotion of private sector participation in water
and sanitation



Annex 2
pagte 3 of 5
Private sector includes small works contractors and enterprises (artisans, masons, extension workers) as well as
NGOs.
Under this sub-component, the project will support development of private sector in order to promote its
intervention in the sector and to strengthen national capacities in service provision.
* Market studies and existing sector capacity assessments
* Training and support to existing private sector on technical, management, and marketing aspects (including
procurement). This could be done by qualified existing private sector.
Intemational or local consultant services: US$350.000; US$250,000 for studies and US$100.000 for training
Other acttivities to be defined: USS250.000
Project Component 3 - Community Based Water and Sanitation Services (Pilot)
A/ Community needs assessment, education and support               US$1.8 millions
B/ Water and Sanitation Services Extension                         US$10.9 millions
(base cost excluding contingencies and taxes)
A/ US$2.3 millions
BW US$15.0 millions
(including taxes and contingencies)
3. A / This component will allow the Government for conducting studies in order to reach a better
knowledge of sector issues and to be able to prepare for sector development.
Consultant services will be hired by the MEM to conduct the various following activities:
3.A/1. Environmentallealth, beneficiar and demand assessments:
The project will finance four beneficiaries assessments to be made in priority in project areas. The studies are
scheduled as follows: 1) at effectiveness - baseline study - , 2) after I year, 3) after 2.5 years, and 4) after 4 years.
Local consultant services: US$250.000
3.A/2. Studies o         fiancing/contribution mechanisms,
The project will finance a study to develop financing mechanisms for water and sanitation services.
International consultant services: US$200.000
3.A/3. Development of tools to facilitate community mobilization, hygiene education and establishment of
community based request system (building on existing materials!;
The project will finance a study to develop IEC tools. The objective is to prepare a national' strategy and
methodology for Information Education Communication actions, which are essential to support sector development.
The study will build on existing materials (mainly developped by UNICEF).
This study is a priority (and a prerequisite for IEC campaigns, activity 3.5); therefore, it is scheduled for the first
year of project.
International consultant services: US$200,000
3.A/4. Technology choice for water and sanitation services:
1   "Nationar'does not mean that regional specificities will be ignored.



Annex 2
pagze 4 of 5
The project will fnance a study on possible technology choices for water and sanitation systems. On the basis of an
analysis of experiences in other countries and continents (India, West Africa, Latin America), and in confrontation
with the context of Madagascar, the consultant will be asked to propose technology solutions for water and
sanitation systems design. A code of technical standards might be drafted.
The study is scheduled for the third year of the project.
International consultant services: US$100,000
3.A/5. IEC camnpaigns
On the basis of the methodology developped under the activity 3.A/3, the project will finance IEC campaigns, in
priority in project areas, and then spread throughout the country, in rural and urban areas.
UNICEF will take the lead of this activity, and supervise NGOs contracted to execute IEC campaigns.
NGOs: US$800.000
Other activities to be defined: US$250.000
3. B . To support the sector capacity building effort, the project will also finance pilot water and sanitation
systems in targeted rural areas. The works and the supporting measures (community mobilization and hygiene
education) will be conducted by the delegated executing agency (NGOs or UNICEF).
Type of system        Approximative       Beneficiaries    Executing
number of systems     per system        agency
boreholes               500                200           UNICEF
gravity pipe systems         40                1,000          Caritas
______   140               1,000        FIKRIFAMA
3.B/1. Construction of 500 village boreholes by UNICEF:                    US$ 6.2 mill'ns
The component executed by UNICEF will be phased as follows:
Phase 1: Feasibility study. A feasibility study will be conducted in order to ascertain the viability of the proposed
technical solutions, and to cater the largest possible population in the zone of intervention. During this phase, the
project will be presented to villages, including the obligations of both parties, the beneficiaries and the project team.
Commitment of villagers will be surveyed during this phase.
Phase 2: Determination of recipient communities. Recipient communities will be selected according to: (1) the
motivation of communities, (2) their acceptance to participate financially to maintenance of pumps and to set up a
community water fund, (3) the absence of modem and safe water point, (4) the drying up of traditional water points,
(5) the occurrence of household heads migration, and (6) the existence of markets, school, health centers. Villages
must also have at least 200 inhabitants, and be accessible all year long to drilling machines and four wheel drive
vehicles (follow-up). Also, the geographical distribution of villages must allow to set up an efficient and effective
maintenance network.
IEC campaigns will start immediately after the selection of beneficiary communities, with two visits resulting in the
signature of the contract between the head of the project and the President of the Water Point Committee (WPC)
(may be created during the first visit).
Phase 3: Identification of drilling sites. Community participation and IEC activities will be included in this phase
since traditions and local customs can greatly influence the choice of drilling sites.
Phase 4: Drilling operation.
Phase 5: Equipment of boreholes



Annex 2
Dagee 5 of 5
3.B/2. Construction of 40 gravity pipes systems with CARITAS                           US$1.1 million
beneficiaries: 40,000; 40 gravity systems.
.,,....,,..,.""""":'""'............. """ '."'"" "'"" "''"
g~~~~~~........... -S  &-K w    ,,'1. ......
....-...'.(.=~~~~~o I...'' ''''
. . . . . . .  .   . . .. .''; 
"k*__+'.-s-et','~~~~~~~~....  .'....
-a-        BkX{'    l-labwf 
.,.,,,,,.,.,......F..... ,..S       . ,...   .. ........
(i)te iag     muthv : n      mor  h      ,00  inaitns
3.B/3  Contrucionio a4 w ravter  piittee systbemse withs cI mmItAee will. belin
beneficiaries: 140,000 14f gravityj beefciriepmspio
manag.ent, o,etio -nd ma,ntenance :            syste : ........:.-.
................   ............................. ................  .....
-: (-   - the vilag mus ro-e .   otibutes  do te        E work-s:by
..  - -.- ---. -   .   .   ....                     .   ...   . .....
......   ......"'Y....  " "s." ...   ..... -
fb   tex*cin (duingws  a:2d folicw-                ' ):
3.B/3. Construction of 140 gravity p2ipes systems with FIKIGFAMA                       U$3.7million
beneficiaries: 140,000, 140 gravity sytems
Once.. .he reus.rmth  omnt  has .. bee ree.         d    ilgi  eu
..ola.or.t.on are. fl:wd work cntn begin...h..... .. Te f::..w.up
: -a e (hase 4) -begins immedintel aflet works ecoplet ::.



I



Annex 3
Annex 3                                     page I of 2
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Project Component                            Local    Foreign    Total
Como 1: Policy and legal framework
Base cost                                                           0.2       0.8      1.0
Como 2: Water and Sanitation Sector Reorganization
Base cost                                                           0.4       2.2      2.6
Comp 3.AI: Studies and development of IEC strategies
Base cost                                                           1.2      0.7       1.8
ComR 3.B/: Constructions and Hygiene education
comp. UNICEF                                                        0.2       6.1       6.2
comp. FIKRIFAMA                                                     1.3       2.3       3.7
comp. CARITAS                                                       0.4       0.7       1.1
Community (recurrent costs)                                          0.1       0.0      0.1
Sub-Total Component 4                                                 2.0       9.1      11.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                      3.7     12.7      16.4
Physical Contingencies                                                   0.1       0.9       1.0
Price Contingencies                                                      0.3       1.3       1.6
TOTAL COSTS BEFORE TAXES                                                 4.0      14.9      18.9
Taxes (TTL)                                                              3.1       0.0       3.1
TOTAL COSTS INCLUDING TAXES                                               7.2     14.9      22.1
PPF Refinancing                                                          0.0       0.3       0.3
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                                                       7.2      15.1      22.3



Annex 3
nag,e2 of 2
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
Local Foreign       Total % of Total
Project Components                                                                  Costs  Costs       Costs Project Costs
Comp 1: Policy and lega frahmework
1.1.  Study to reformulate water sector policy                               0.00      0.36      0.36
1.2. Study to complete water law and by-laws                                 0.00      0.18      0.18
1.3. Communication-disseminatlon of water law                                0.15      0.00      0.15
1.4. Other studies                                                           0.00      0.26      0.26
Beo coat                                                                       0.2       0.8       1.0       5%
Comp 2: Water and Santation Sector Reorgankation
2.0. Support to Project Unit                                                  0.25      0.55      0.80
2.1.  Sector reorganization study                                             0.00      0.50      0.50
2.2. Directorate of water reorganization                                      0.00      0.35      0.35
2.3. Water resources management study                                         0.00      0.35      0.35
2.4. Private sector development                                               0.15      0.20      0.35
2.5. Other                                                                    0.00      0.25      0.25
Base coat                                                                      04        2.2       2.6      14%
Comp 3: Communhty Based Water Cnd Sanitation Srvices (Pilot)
Al Community need mesamet, education and support
3. 1.  Env/health, beneficiary assesments                                     0.25      0.00      0.25
3.2.  Technology choice                                                       0.00      0.10      0.10
3.3  Developmnentidissemination of IEC tools                                  0.10      0.10      0.20
3.4. Studies on financing mechanisms                                          0.00      0.20      0.20
3.5. IEC campaigns                                                            0.80      0.00      0.80
3.5. Other                                                                    0.00      0.25      0.25
Bse" ct                                                                        1.2       0.7       1.8      10%
B1 Water and Sanitation Services Extension
3.1 positive boreholes in the South with UNICEF
Community participation                                           0.15      0.00      0.15
Works                                                             0.00      0.63      0.63
Good and equipments                                               0.00      1.18       1.18
Consulting services                                                0.00     4.26       4.26
sub-total UNICEF                                                0.2       6.1       6.2      33%
3.2 gravity pipe systems vwith FIKRIFAMA
Community participation                                           0.46      0.00       0.46
Works                                                             0.19      0.19      0.38
Good and equipments                                               0.00      2.13      2.13
Consulting services                                               0.68      0.00      0.68
sub-total FIKRIFAMA                                             1.3       2.3       3.7      19%
3.3 gravity pipe systems with Caritas
Community participation                                           0.13      0.00      0.13
Works                                                              0.04     0.04       0.08
cood and equipments                                               0.01      0.63      0.64
Consulting services                                                0.21     0.00       0.21
sub-total Caritas                                               OA        0.7       1.1       6%
Baae oaBt                                                                      1.9       9.1      10.9      58%
Community participation                                                             0.08       0.0      0.08
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                                 3.7      12.7      16.4      86%
Physical Contingencies                                                              0.11      0.91      1.02       5%
Price ContIngencles110%)                                                            0.28      1.27      1.55       8%
TOTAL COSTS BEFORE TAXES                                                             4.0      14.9      18.9    100%
Taxes (TLh                                                                          3.11      0.00      3.11      16%
TOTAL COSTS texduding DTI)                                                           7.2      14.9      22.1    116%
fF refinancing                                                                      0.00      0.26      0.25
TOTAL REQIUIREMENTS                                                                  7.2      15.1      22.3



Annex 4
page 1 of 11
Annex 4
Madagascar - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Cost-Benefits Analysis
Net Present Value (US$)
_UNICEF    Fikrifama      Caritas        All Together
Bsn
Resources saving              4,473,143   2,657,286       775,657            7,906,086
Increased consumption         2,236,572    1,328,643      387,829            3,953,043
Health expenditure saving      125,057      168,392        49,153              342,602
Investment costs              5,034,081   2,640,544        214,937            7,889,562
Recurrent costs                  26,718     106,842         31,381             164,940
Net Benefits (US$)              1,773,973   1,406,935      377,848            3,558,756
Economic rate of Return             16%         18%           17%               16.95%
Source: Beneficiary Assessment of the UNICEF project "150 positive boreholes", 1995
Main assumptions
Costs and benefits have been valuated for the physical component of the project only (comp. 4)
Horizon: 25 years from the first year of the project
Discount rate:                           12%
Shadow pricing for unskilled labor:      0.5
Other economic prices obtained by removing taxes and duties.
Exchange rate                       4983 Fmg per US$
Quantified Benefits:
(a)  savings in resources (time or money) spent to fetch water;
on the basis of the minimal wage in agriculture (300 Fmg per hour)
(b)  value of the increased use of water;
(c)  diminution of health expenditure and diminution of productivity losses, on the basis of a 30%
reduction of water-related diseases occurence
Sensitfvity Analysis       (detail per component is given in the annex)
NPV          ERR          Switching value
2 years delay in implementation            2,510,228           16%
investment cost overrun                                                           +42%
OMM overrun                                                                     +2157%
health benefits reduced to zero            3,216,154           16%
time valuation (switching value of wage)                                          -30%
time savings - 20%                          1,977,538          15%
surplus reduced to zero                     -394,288           11%



Annex 4
page 2 of 11
Economic Analysis
Madagascar-Rural Water Supply And Sanitation Pilot Project
Introduction
1.     The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project aims at improving capacity of the sector to
expand a sustainable and cost-effective coverage in water supply and sanitation. To reach this objective, the
project consists of four components: sector policy and legal framework reformulation, sector reorganization
and capacity building, studies and development of IEC strategies, and construction of water supply and
sanitation facilities and hygiene education. The physical component will be conducted by UNICEF and two
experimented NGOs (FIKRIFAMA and Caritas) on the basis of their geographical distribution.
2.      he project will benefit indirectly the                                     . a a a  .
global population of Madagascar by improving the               . 1. Pro... -ill:;......es
whole water supply and sanitation sector capacity,         $                $
and inducing itS development. The project will                     Sotern Cental  CEntr:aliE-EEaFi-i:i
more particularly provide about 300,000'        -Ro   -                          - n-
beneficiaries from rural areas with safe water   Type00il- -     |lt00-0---     boeoe  gravityl gravity0
through the construction of water supply systems.  Cm.tV-iz.20.-                 -    ,0g-
Each system will benefit to communities with from    (average)
100 to 2,500 members, depending on the region     oal fefiars10.0    4004.000-
and on the technical solution (see Box 1).  i  i-  
3.     An analysis to assess the direct and indirect costs and benefits associated with the physical component
of the project was conducted. The overall project return has been calculated on the basis of: (a) the savings in
r-esources (time or money spent to get water), (b) the value of increased use of water (seen as a consumer's
surplus: uses of water for drinking, cooking, washing, etc.), and (c) the diminution of health private and public
expenditure.
The benefits resulting from the other components (institutional strengthening and capacity building) have not
been valuated.
4. The only source of data available for thie analysis is the beneficiary assessment conducted in 1995 2on
thie previous UNICEF operation in the Southern region "150 positive boreholes" (1993-94). The assessment
was more qualitative than quantitative. Therefore, assumptions have been made when necessary, especially
for the components conducted by the two NGOs. The main assumptions will be precised and discussed
thereafter, and data will be accordingly submitted to a sensitivity analysis.
..at end of project. With an estimnated population growth rate of 3,3%, the beneficiary population will amnount 20
years later to about 600,000.
2"Evaluation participative par les beneficiaires du projet Eau", Faritany de Tulear, Groupe de Recherche pour la
Connaissance du Sud, 1995.



Annex 4
page 3 of I1
5.      A sensitivity analysis has also been conducted to assess the vulnerability of the project to some of the
risks identified during project preparation: water contamination annihilating health benefits, delays in project
implementation, no benefits from increased consumption.
Benefits
6.      Perceived benefits. The participatory assessment of the project "150 positive boreholes" shows that
people identified themselves the following benefits: they felt that the project had provided them with a better
and permanent access to water, and with better health and hygiene (reduction of morbidity and mortality due
to water-borne diseases).
7.      Monetary valuable benefits. Project benefits consisted first of savings in resources used to obtain
water prior to the new system: money saved by not having to fetch water from a distant source (time saved by
women and children in fetching water) or by not having to buy water from vendors (cf. para. 9.). Second, the
conjunction of time saving and water availability translated into positive effects such as development of
income generating activities (market-gardening) and improvement of housing (brick); these can be
considered as the consumer surplus from the increased water available. Then, reduction of morbidity
translated into a better productivity and a reduction of health expenses.
8.      For the purpose of the economic analysis of the future project, the following benefits have been
considered:
(a) the savings in resources (time or money spent to get water),
(b) the value of increased use of water (seen as a consumer's surplus: uses of water for
drinking, cooking, washing, etc.).
(c) the diminution of health private and public expenditure.
9.      Savings in resources in the           Table 1: Water consumption and time spent for collection in the South
South.                                                             with and without project
A s  show n    in    Table    1, w hen    people  .............................................................. .......... ..................... .. ...._
As shown in Table 1, when people.~~~~~~~~~~~~traditional water    UNICEF
shift from traditional sources ("vovo"                                                  source         drICin
. source     . drilling
and "saka-saka") to UNICEF                                                          (without project)  (with project)
. . . . ..................................................................      ............................ ;.._
boreholes, the average time spent           distance to fetch wate          range    0.4  10 km       0 1 -6 km
collecting water is reduced from 3.9 to                                    average       4 km            I km
0.9 hours a day for an average             average time spent per bucket *               1.3 h     .    0.3 h
consumption of 3 buckets3 per day per   consumption **                      range        I - 3           1 - 5
household. Each household saves            (bucket per household per day)    average      3               4
3 hours a.day on its basic                 average time spent        for basic cons.    3.9 h           0.9 h
(h. p. household per day) for surplus cons.   -       .    0.3 h
consumption.,,   ,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,.,.,,,,,,,,,_
* on thc basis ofa walk sped of 3 Jun per hour
*a bucket contains 315 litcrs:on average a household has 6 membems on average.
-Source:"Evaluation pa rtcipativep prlas b6ndficiaires du projet Eaut Faitany de Tuiear
Groupe de Reherhe pour laConnaissance du Sud, 1995         ..
3 I bucket =15 liters



Annex 4
page 4 of II
Time is valued on the basis of the minimal wage in agriculture4, i.e. 24,000 Fmg per month, or 141.18 Fmg
per ho[r. An average of 1 hour saved per bucket for basic consumption corresponds to a saving of 141 FMG
per bucket (Fmg.p.b.) or US$ 0.032 per bucket. This value is reasonable, compared with the market price of
water in the South:
* Water is sometimes delivered at home by cart. This service costs 2,000 Fmg for a 3 or 4 days water
provision. With a basic consumption of 45 liter per day, this "carted"- water costs 160 to 220 Fmg.p.b.
(equivalent to US$2.5 to 3.41 per cubic meter)
* On the other hand, AES (Alimentation en Eau dans le Sud) provides villages with trucked water. Water is
sold either at the standpipe for 50 to 100 Fmg.p.b. (US$0.77 to 1.55 per cubic meter), or by the
community for 100 to 150 Fmg.p.b. (up to US$2.32 per cubic meter), or by a private operator for 150 to
500 Fmg.p.b. (up to US$7.75 per cubic meter).
10.   Increased consumption in the South (UNICEF). Reduced time in collecting water would allow an
increase in consumption. As shown in Table 1, a 75 % reduction in time taken to collect 1 unit of water
increases consumption by 33 %, i.e. the arc elasticity of demand is estimated to be - 0.44. Because this
incremental consumption presumably was not considered worthwhile to collect before the project, the level of
time saving will be lower than on the basic consumption. A common practice is to assume time savings of
half the rate that time savings accrue on the basic consumption, i.e. 1 bucket* Ihour per bucket * 0.5 = 0.5hour
per day.
11.   Savings in resources and increased consumption in other regions.
In other regions, water is less scarce and less far from the house. However according to the NGOs experience,
we can reasonably assume that each household will save about 1.5 hours a day on its basic consumption after
completion of the water distribution system, and increases its consumption to the equivalent of 0.25 hour a
day. These asumptions will be questioned in the sensitivity analysis.
12.   The benefits resulting from (a) time saved in water collection, and (b) increased use of water, are
valuated as follows.
UNICEF                                                      Benefits per household
Time saved on basic consumption:  3 h per day  * 141.18 Fmg per h = 423.54 Fmg per day
Surplus                       0.5 h per day  * 1A411.1Fmg per h =  70.59 Fmg per day
NGOs
Time saved on basic consumption: 1.5 h per day  * 14.IJ8Fmg per h = 211.77 Fmg per day
Surplus                      0.25 h per day  * 141.18 Fmg per h =   35.3 Fmg per day
13.   Health benefits. Health benefits from water supply and sanitation project are not easily valuable. It
is has been assumed that a better access to safe water and to hygiene education would induce a 30 percent
reduction of water-borne diseases occurrence . In fact, such an assumption requires removal of pathogen from
the environment, which is not ensured in the project (no excreta disposal will be provided, for example).
"L'Etat des campagnes malgaches en 1995"
5   Source: "Effects of improved water supply and sanitation on ascariasis, diarrhea, hookorm infection schistosomias
and trachoma", OMS, 1991. In fact, such an assumption requires removal of pathogen from the environment.



Annex 4
page S of II
In the region of Toliary, the statistics for the health centers of Belamoty and Bezaha in Table 2 show that
water-borne and water-washed diseases represent one fourth to one third of the reasons for consulting a
doctor.
¾  fpains osutn           Nes patebtsonulin
Disease             11.~~~~~~~QAW    :II uner.e..ll.udr..er.
''':'''':':'''':"'::"': .............................   .   ................  ............    ..   ....   ..'i""""'"'"'!i
'..'...#'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......               ....  .. ,''   """
........ -......... .........                  ........ .,;i .;ii .i;.i;. .I
1flerborne@Wtt ?        23%    270/   19/   12% -17%          8%
,,ii.iibssssSiLiitFiiFi ~~~~~~~...........  ..iifiiiiiFi.i.t.,;_;............_._
Wtt&.WSShed::,.         10%     90%  11%    12%    13%        7%
(dratlg  i. oculr
together  33%    36%/   300/ /   24%    30%    15%
,. ,    .    ,~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~... ...
The valuation of the health benefits is made through the reduct:on of public and households health
expenditure. In Madagascar, general public health expenditure amounts to about 3,046 Fmg per capita and
households expenditures to  2,519 Fmg per capita, i.e. 5,565 Fmg. If 25 percent of the cases are water-
related, and if the project induces a 30 percent reduction, the savings will be around 417 Ping per capita per
|Health benefits                                       417 Fmig per capita per yearl
Costs
14.    Investmentcost. Investment costs were estimated by the project and are expressed in constant 1996
prices. Costs were converted in economic costs by removing taxes and duties. A physical contingency is
included where appropriate. Unskilled labor costs have been applied a 0.5 conversion factor.
15. O&Mscosts. O&M costs were estimated on the basis the experience from the previous operations.
For UNICEF systems, a provision of 50,000 Ping per year and per pump is usually made by villagers for
operation and maintenance (includes spare parts and mechanic's visits). For NGOs systems, the provision for
operation and maintenance usually amounts to 1,200,000 Ping per system.
6Estimation based on: national public expenditure (3,046 Fmg p. c.), national household expenditure
(2,591 Ping p. c.), in "Madagascar Poverty Assessment", The World Bank, report nr 14044-MAG, June 1996, table
5-18 and D-17.



Annex 4
page 6 of I I
Cost-Benefits analysis and ERRs
16.    The economic cost-benefit flows of the
whole project and of each of the three physical sub-  1ox 2: os BenefitAat
components are summarized in the attached tables    .                      . .       ................
(pages 8 to 11). With a discount rate of 10 percent    ............. ;..
and a 20 years project life (after completion), the     ICEF              61.. ..1.5.
analysis leads to a global Net Present value of         . I. ....A      1253          157
US$2.24 million, while the economic rate of return is              :    -gg  ..3.. .1....  -7%
13 percent. NPV and ERR per component is            .r..                .......    .... I--
summarized in Box 2.
Sensitivity analysis
17.    The project is submitted to some risks identified during project preparation, and a sensitivity analysis
is conducted to assess the vulnerability of the project to these risks. Switching values have been calculated
when possible. The sensitivity analysis per component is summarized in Box 3 on page 7.
a) Delays in project implementation may occur, due to villagers and NGOs limited resources,
technical constraints, administrative difficulties, weather events, etc..
b) Cost overruns may be experimented; the analysis shows that a cost overrun of 26 percent would
anihilate the project net benefit.
c) IEC campaigns may not have the expected results, and hygiene and sanitary situation may not
improve. Then health benefits may be lower than expected or even reduced to zero if water gets
contaminated (before or after the tap). Without health benefits, the project rate of return is 12.9
percent.
d) Time savings and surplus benefits may be lower than anticipated. A ten percent reduction in time
savings entails a rate of return of 12 percent. Time valuation is based on the estimated minimal
wage in agriculture. The switching value on wage is -20 percent, i.e. 19,170 Fmg per month.



Annex 4
pg1e 7 of I1
Box 3: Sensitivity Analysis per component
UNICEF  Fikrifama  Caritas   All Together
Base case
Net Present Value (US$)   1,773,973 1,406,935  377,848      3,558,756
Economic rate of Return        16%      18%       17%           17%
Sensitivity Analysis
a) 2 years delay in implementation
NPV                       1,191,699 1,048,853  269,676     2,510,228
ERR                            15%      17%       16%           16%
b) investment cost overrun
Switching value              +35%      +53%     +47%           +42%
c) O&M overrun
Switching value            +6640%   +1316%   +1200%          +2157%
d) health benefits reduced to zero
NPV                       1,648,916 1,238,543  328,694     3,216,154
ERR                            16%      17%      17%            16%
e) time valuation
Switching value of wage       -27%     -35%      -32%          -30%
(FMg per month; base:33,000   24,275   21,352   22,283      23,097
fl time savings reduced       20%
NPV                         879,344  875,478  222,716       1,977,538
ERR                            14%      16%       15%           15%
g) surplus reduced to zero
NPV                        -462,599   78,292   -9,981       -394,288
ERR                            11%      12%      12%            11%



Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project- Cost-Benefit Analysis
year              COSTS (Millions FMG)                        BENEFITS (Millions FMG)           NET BENEFIT               Systems
Hardware      O&M    software         total time saving   surplus     health      total (Millions FMG) benefidaries  IMP  OPR
0      1,814         0         264        2,079         0          0          0           0         -2,079                0    0
1     17,326         0       2,146       19,472         0          0          0           0        -19,472        -      30    0
2     11,358        28       2,073       13,459      1,065       533         45       1,643        -11,816      51,650   250  130
3     10,757        75       2,088       12,921      3,155      1,577        130      4,862         -8,059     149,392   250  380
4      8,870        120      2,353       11,343      5,039      2,520       210       7,769         -3,574     242,507   150  580
5       936         160       591         1,687      6,338      3,169       277       9,784          8,097     318,830    0  680
6         0         160          0         160       6,547      3,274       286      10,107          9,947     329,351    0  680
7         0         160          0         160       6,763      3,382       295      10,440         10,280     340,220    0  680
8         0         160          0         160       6,987      3,493       305      10.785         10,625     351,447    0  680
9         0         160          0         160       7,217      3,609       315      11,141         10,981     363,045    0  680
10         0        160          0          160       7,455      3,728       325      11,508         11,348    375,026     0  680
11         0        160          0          160       7,701      3,851       336      11,888         11,728    387,401     0  680
12         0         160          0         160       7,955      3,978       347      12,280         12,120    400,186     0  680
13         0         160          0         160       8,218      4,109       359      12,686         12,526    413,392     0  680
14         0         160          0         160       8,489      4,245       370      13,104         12,944    427,034     0  680
15         0        160           0         160       8,769      4,385       383      13,537         13,377    441,126     0  680
16         0         160          0         160       9,059      4,529       395      13,983         13,823    455,683     0  680
17         0         160          0         160       9,358      4,679       408      14,445         14,285    470,721     0  680
18         0         160          0         160       9,666      4,833       422      14,921         14,761    486,254     0  680
19         0        160           0         160       9,985      4,993       436      15,414         15,254    502,301     0  680
20         0         160          0         160      10,315      5,157       450      15,923         15,763     518,877    0  680
21         0         160          0         160      10,655      5,328       465      16,448         16,288     536,000    0  680
22         0         160          0         160      11,007      5,504       480      16,991         16,831     553,688    0  680
23         0         160          0         160      11,370      5,685       496      17,551         17,391     571,959    0  680
24         0         160          0         160      11,745      5,873       512      18,131         17,971    590,834     0  680
25         0         160          0         160      12,133      6,067       529      18,729         18,569    610,331     0  680
discount rate                     12%
NPV       35,860       822       6,385      43,067     39,395     19,697      1,707     60,799         17,733
NPV             17,733 Millions Fmg 1
[X           U3,558,756 US$       J
ERR                        16.95eR                                                                                       .                  _ R



Annex 4
page 9 of 11
FIKRIFAMA - 140 gravity systems
PoRulatlon and demand                                                   Conversion factors
Population per system                 1,000                                exchange rate               4983 Fmg/US$
population growth rate                 3.3%
capita per household                      6
Bentits                                                                                               Beneaens per capia
per household          per capfta    and per year
(hourlday)  (Fmg/day)  (hourlday)  (Fmglday)    (Fmg)
time saving      1.50       225       0.25      37.50    13,688
minimal wage (Fmg per month)    33,000             surplus          0.75       113       0.13      18.75     6,844
time valuation (Frng per hour)    150              heaRth benefis                                              867
total (Fmg per capita per year)                          21,399
Costs estimate (thousands FMo}
year 0     year I     year 2     year 3     year 4    year 5
total              0   6,127,445  4,166,944  4,320,415  4,513,351         0
hardware & consulting services    0   5,426,359  3,868,970  4,012,476  4,195,445        0
soft & operating costs    0      701,086    297,974    307,940    317,905        0
maintenance costs per year per system             750
year   COSTS    (Millions FMG)                     BENEFITS             (Millions FMG)        NET.BEN              Systems
hardware  o&m        software   total      time       surplus    health    total       (Millions  beneft-    IMP  OPR
savings                                     FMG)   claries
0                    0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0               0 
1      5,426         0       701        6,127         0          0         0          0      -6,127       -     20    0
2      3,869        15        298       4,182       283        141         18       442      -3,740    20,660   40   20
3      4,012        45        308       4,365       876        438         56      1,370     -2,995    64,025   40   60
4      4,195        75        318       4,588      1,509       754         96      2,359     -2,230    110,230   40  100
5         0        105          0         105      2,182     1,091        138      3,411     3,306    159,415    0  140
6         0        105          0         105      2,254     1,127        143      3,524     3.419    164,676    0  140
7         0        105         0          105      2,328     1,164        148      3,640     3,535    170,110    0  140
8         0        105          0         105      2,405     1,203        152      3,760     3,655    175,724    0  140
9         0        105          0         105      2,485     1,242        157      3,884     3,779    181.523    0  140
10         0        105         0         105       2,567     1,283        163     4,013      3,908    187,513    0  140
11         0        105         0         105      2,651      1,326       168      4,145      4,040    193,701    0  140
12         0        105         0         105       2,739     1,369       174      4,282      4,177    200,093    0  140
13         0        105         0         105       2,829     1,415       179      4,423      4,318    206,696    0  140
14         0        105         0         105       2,923     1,461       185      4,569      4,464    213,517    0  140
15         0        105         0         105       3,019     1,509       191      4,720      4,615    220,563    0  140
16         0        105         0         105       3,119     1,559       198       4,875     4,770    227,842    0  140
17         0        105         0         105       3,221     1,611       204       5,036     4,931   235,360    0  140
18         0        105         0         105       3,328     1,664       211       5,203     5,098    243,127    0  140
19         0        105         0         105       3,438     1,719       218       5,374     5,269    251,150    0  140
20         0        105          0         10O      3,551     1,776       225       5,552     5,447    259,438    0  140
21         0        105          0         105      3,668     1,834        232      5,735     5,630    268,000    0  140
22         0        105         0          105      3,789     1,895       240       5,924     5.819    276,844    0  140
23         0        105         0          105      3,914     1,957       248       6,120     6,015    285,980    0  140
24         0        105         0          105      4,044     2,022       256       6,322     6,217    295,417    0  140
25         0        105         0          105      4,177     2,088       265      6,530      6,425    305,166    0  140
discount rate                     12%
NPV        12,010       532      1,147      13,690     13,241      6,620       839     20,700      7,011
NPV             7,011 Mlilb  Fmg
1,406,935 US$
ERR                      18.12S



Annex 4
page IO of II
UNICEF - 500 positive boreholes
Population                                                             Conversion factors
Population per system                   200                                exchange rate               4983 Fmg/US$
population growth rate                3.3%
capita per household                      6
Benefs estlrnate                                                                                     Benefits per canita
per household         Der caoita     and par vear
withoutt   wiWproject           (hour/day)  (Fmglday)  (hour/day)  (Fmglday)    (Fmg)
household consumption (bucidet)  3          6     time saving      3.40       510        0.57        85    31,025
time spent per budidet (hour)  1.33       0.20    surplus           1.70       255       0.28        43     15,513
minimal wage (Fmg per month)    33,000            health benefits                                             867
time valuation (Fmg per hour)     150             total (Fmg per capia per year)                            47,405
(1 bucldet = 15 liters)            200 fmgibucket
Costs estimate (thousands FMg)
year 0     year I     year 2     year 3    year 4     year 5
total       2,078,592   11,059,451  8,166,227  7,385,167  5,520,090  1,526,543
hardware & consulting services  1,814,127   9,862,573  6,560,756  5,779,696  3,670,460    935,578
soft & operating costs   264,464    1,196,878  1,605,471  1,605,471  1,849,630    590,965
maintenance costs per year per system              50           IEC per year (follow up Y6,7 and 8)       0
year   COSTS    (Millions FMG)                    BENEFITS             (Mfllions FMG)         NET.BEN             Systems
hardware  o&m        software  total       time       surplus    health    total       (Millions  benefi-    IMP OPR
savings                                     FMG)   ciaries
0      1,814         0       264        2,079         0         0          0          0     -2,079       -      0    t
1      9,863         0      1,197      11,059         0         0          0          0    -11,059              0    0
2      6,561         5      1,605       8,171       641        320        18        979     -7,192    20,660  200  100
3      5,780        15      1,605       7,400     1,986       993         56      3,035     -4,365    64,025  200  300
4      3,670        23      1,850       5,543      3,078     1,539        86      4,703       -840    99,207  100  450
5       936         25       591        1,552     3,533      1,766        99      5,398      3,846    113,868    0  500
6         0         25         0          25      3,649      1,825       102      5,576      5,551    117,626    0  500
7         0         25         0          25      3,770      1,885       105      5,760      5,735    121,507    0  500
8         0         25         0          25      3,894      1,947       109      5,950      5,925    125,517    0  500
9         0         25         0          25      4,023      2,011       112      6,146      6,121    129,659    0  500
10         0         25         0          25      4,155      2,078       116      6,349      6,324    133,938    0  500
11         0         25         0          25      4,293      2,146       120      6,559      6,534    138,358    0  500
12         0         25         0          25      4,434      2,217       124      6,775      6,750    142,923    0  500
13         0         25         0          25      4,581      2,290       128      6,999      6,974    147,640    0  500
14         0         25         0          25      4,732      2,366       132      7,230      7,205    152,512    0  500
15         0         25         0          25      4,888      2,444       137      7,468      7,443    157,545    0  500
16         0         25         0          25      5,049      2,525       141      7,715      7,690    162,744    0  500
17         0         25         0          25      5,216      2,608       146      7,969      7,944    168,114    o  500
18         0         25         0          25      5,388      2,694       151      8,232      8,207    173,662    0  500
19         0         25         0          25      5,566      2,783       156      8,504      8,479    179,393    0  500
20         0         25         0          25      5,749      2,875       161      8,785      8,760    185,313    0  500
21         0         25         0          25      5,939      2,970       166      9,075      9,050    191,428    0  500
22         0         25         0          25      6,135      3,068       172      9,374      9,349    197,746    0  500
23         0         25         0          25      6,338      3,169       177      9,683      9,658   204,271    0  500
24         0         25         0          25      6,547      3,273       183     10,003      9,978    211,012    0  500
25         0         25         0          25      6,763      3,381       189     10,333     10,308    217,976    0  500
discount rate                     12%
NPV        20,382       133      4,702      25,217     22,289    11,144       623     34,057      8,839
NPV            8,839 Millions Fmg
1,773,973 US$
t-itR              -S~~~1.23%



Annea 4
page 11 of 11
Caritas - 40 gravity systems
Population and demand                                                    Conv mion fctoim
Populaton per system                  1,000                                  exchange rate               4983 Fmg/US$
population growth rat                  3.3%
capita per household                      6
Bonefb tUmb                                                                                            Benefts per capita
Rer household          per capita     and per year
(hourlday)  (Fmglday)  (hourlday)  (Fmg/day)    (Fmg)
time saving      1.50       225        0.25        38     13,688
minimal wage (Fmg per month)    33,000             surplus           0.75       113        0.13        19      6,844
time valuation (Fmg per hour)      150              health benefits                                             867
total (Pmg per capita per year)                           21,399
Costs estimate (thousands FMal
year 0     year 1     year 2     year 3     year 4     year 5
total               0    2,285,245  1,098,015   1,140,283  1,190,058       0
hardware & consulting services     0    2,037,010    928,135    965,310  1,004,145        0
soft & operating costs     0     248,235    169,880    174,973    185,913         0
maintenance costs per system per year              750
year   COSTS    (Millions FMG)                     BENEFITS              (Millions FMG)         NET.BEN              Systems
hardware  o&m        software   total       time       surplus    health     total       (Millions  benefi-    IMP  OPR
savings                                      FMG)   ciarles
0         0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0         0        -       0    0
1      2,037         0        248        2,285         0          0          0         0      -2,285              10    0
2       928          8        170        1,106       141         71          9        221      -884      10,330   10   10
3       965         15        175        1,155       292        146         19        457      -699     21,342   10  20
4      1,004        23        186        1,213       453        226         29        708       -505     33,069   10   30
5         0         30          0          30        623        312         40        975       945     45,547    0   40
6         0         30          0          30        644        322         41      1,007       977     47,050    0   40
7         0         30          0          30        665        333         42      1,040      1,010    48,603    0   40
8         0         30          0          30        687        344         44      1,074      1,044    50,207    0   40
9         0         30          0          30        710        355         45      1,110      1,080    51,884    0   40
10         0         30          0          30        733        367         46      1,146      1,116    53,575    0   40
11         0         30          0          30        758        379        48       1,184      1,154    55,343    0   40
12         0         30          0          30        783        391         50      1,223      1,193    57,169    0   40
13         0         30          0          30        808        404        51       1,264      1,234    59,056    0   40
14         0         30          0          30        835        418        53       1.305      1,275    61,005    0   40
15         0         30          0          30        863        431         55      1,348      1,318    63,018    0   40
16         0         30          0          30        891        446         56      1,393      1,363    65,098    0   40
17         0         30          0          30        920        460         58      1,439      1,409    67,246    0   40
18         0         30          0          30        951        475         60      1,486      1,456    69,465    0   40
19         0         30          0          30        982        491         62      1,536      1,506    71,757    0   40
20         0         30          0          30       1,015       507         64      1,586      1,556    74,125    0   40
21         0         30          0          30       1,048       524         66      1,639      1,609    76,571     0   40
22         0         30          0          30       1,083       541         69      1,693      1,663    79,098    0   40
23         0         30          0          30       1,118       559         71      1,748      1,718    81,708    0   40
24         0         30          0          30       1,155       578         73      1.806      1,776    84,405    0   40
25         0         30          0          30       1,193       597         76      1,866      1,836    87,190    0   40
discount rate                      12%
NPV         3,468        156       535        4,160      3,866      1,932       245      6,042      1,883
NPV             1,883 Millons Fmg
377,84 USS
ERR                       17.47%






Annex 5
Annex 5                                              Dami of1
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Financial Summary
(USS thousands)
Imleneentntion peniod                            aOstional Period
Yr I   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5  Total    Yr 6   Yr 7   Yr 8   Yr 9  Yr 10    Total
Project costs
Investmentcosts       6,409  4,353 4,137  3,274   945 19,117        0     0      0      0      0   19,117
Recurrentcosts l/         0     6    14    24    32   76           32    32    32    32    32    236
Taxes2/               1,034   712   675   526   163  3,109          0     0      0      0      0   3,109
Total               7,443  5,070 4,825  3,824  1,139 22,302      32    32    32    32    32   22,462
Fnining sources
IDA                   6,078  4,020 3,661  2,813   712 17,284        0     0      0      0      0   17,284
UNICEF                 138    55   203   203   166  765             0     0      0      0      0    765
Communities 3/         123   210   219   213    56  821           32    32    32    32    32    981
Central Govemnment 4/  1,104   786   742   595   205  3,432        0      0      0      0      0   3,432
Total              7,443  5,070 4,825  3,824  1,139 22,302      32    32    32    32    32  [246
Financine sources (% of total annual cost)
IDA                    82%   79%   76%   74%   62%                0%    0%    0%    0%    0%
UNICEF                1.8%   1.1 %  4.2%   5.3%  14.6%            0%    0%    0%    0%    0%
Conununities          1.7%   4.1%   4.5%   5.6%   4.9%          100%  100%  100%  100%  100%
CentralGovermment      15%   15%   15%   16%   18%                0%    0%    0%    0%    0%
Total               100%  100%  100%  100%  100o%             100%  100%  100%  100%  100%
1/ Recurrent costs include Operation and Maintenance, filly assumed by Communities
2/ 20% on all transactions. Import taxes not considered.
3/ Includes investmnent cost and recunrent costs.
4/ Govermment participation includes local taxes plus 10 percent on local currency costs






Annex 6
pa 1I of 6
Annex 6
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project (PAEPAR)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement methods (Table A)
It has been agreed during the appraisal mission and confirmed at negotiations that the following
procurement arrangements will apply to all wholly or partly IDA financed contracts.
A. General
All civil works construction activities will be carried out by the communities. IDA will not
finance any civil works contracts. Goods and Equipment will be procured in accordance with IDA's
guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996. Consultancy services will be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines for
selection and employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997. A General
Procurement Notice is has been prepared by DEA and will be transmitted to IDA for publication in the
United Nations Development Business (UNDB) to advertise all ICB procured goods and a list of consulting
assignments expected to be financed by IDA under the project.
Table A (Annex 6) provides information on the project elements, their estimated costs and
methods of procurement including elements fnanced by IDA as well as those financed by other sources.
B. Procurement of Materials, Goods and Equipment
Procurement of civil works construction materials (cement, reinforcing steel, etc.) would be made
by Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) or by National Competitive Bidding (NCB), according to the
estimated amount of the contracts. Procurement of equipment would be for vehicles, pipes, pumps, drilling
and boreholes equipment, and other miscellaneous equipment. All purchases for amounts exceeding
US$100,000 will be subject to ICB procedures. Purchases for amounts up to USS100,000 and an
aggregated amount estimated at not more than US$1,275,000 would be procured through NCB, and
purchases for amounts up to US$30,000 per contract and an aggregated amount estimated at not more than
US$300,000 through national shopping. Vehicles may be acquired through the Intemational Agencies
Procurement Service Office (LAPSO) for amounts up to US$150,000 and an aggregated amount estimated
at not more than US$300,000.
Consultant services financed by IDA would be for (a) management of physical sub-components
by delegated agencies; (b) studies; (c) audits; and (d) IEC campaigns. Consultants would be hired in
accordance with the Banks Guidelinesfor selection and employment of consultants (January 1997).
(a) Delegated executing agencies (UNICEF and two NGOs) will be contracted on a single source
basis to manage the sub-component they would be in charge of. The contract would include design and
supervision services, as well as sub-contracts management, sensitization (IEC), etc.. The delegated
executing agencies may also be contracted as Procurement Agents. The use of single source contracting is
justified by the facts that the tasks represent a continuation of previous works carried out by the agencies
under other financing, and that these operators are the only capacity available to implement the sub-
components.
(b) For studies, consultants selection will be addressed through competition among qualified
short-listed frms and based on Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of
proposal before comparing the cost of the service to be provided. Selection of individual consultants for



Annex 6
page 2 of
some specialized technical studies where firms would not be required would be based on consultant's
qualifications and capability for the assignment.
(c) For financial audits, Least-Cost-Selection (LCS) will be the most appropriate method. The
firm will be selected provided its technical proposal is responsive.
(d) For IEC campaigns, where considerable local knowledge and participation are required,
consultants will be contracted following a Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) based on short lists
which may comprise entirely NGOs.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
For procurement of materials, goods and equipment, all contracts valued at US$100,000 and above will
require prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to post review. IDA will review the
selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the borrower as follows. In the case of
Consultants Firms contracts worth US$100,000 and above, contracts for financial audits, and contracts with
delegated executing agencies will be subject to IDA prior review. For individual consultants the prior
review threshold will be US$50,000. For contracts above US$200,000 each, IDA will also require the
technical evaluation report for prior review. All other contracts will be subject to post review.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for goods and equipment;
(b)    100% of expenditures for consulting services and training;
(c)    90% of expenditures for incremental operating costs.
No disbursements shall be made in respect of any of the delegated executing agencies, unless the
Government has signed an agreement with such executing agency satisfactory to IDA.
It is projected that disbursement would be completed by 2003. Disbursement would be made against
standard IDA documentation.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursement would be made on the basis of statement of expenditure (SOE) for expenditures for goods,
equipment, materials and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, and
training operating costs.
Special account:
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the project, it is proposed
that the Government establish a Special Account in the amount of US$500,000. Funds in this Special
Account would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the Project.



AnnLex 6
piage 3 of 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in USS thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement method               Total      % of
ICB      NCB        Other     N.B.F     Costs   total cost
LWDXkI
other I communities                      0         0         0        745       745
Total Civil Works                           0         0         0        745       745       3%
(0)       (0)       (0)       (0)        (0)     (0°%)
2. Goods and Equipments
construction materials                325      1,007       200         0      1,532
vehicles                             1,428        0        300         0      1,728
pipes, pumps and drilling eq.        3,701         0         0         0      3,701
other equipments                        0       268        100         0       368
Total Goods and Equipment               5,454      1,275      599          0     7,329       33%
(4,636)   (1,072)     (459)       (0)   (6,166)    (36%)
3. Consulting Services and trainin
Project management                       0         0      6,457         0      6,457
Studies and training                     0         0      5,485         0      5,485
Financial audits                         0         0        200         0       200
IEC campaigns                            0         0      1,565         0      1,565
Total Consulting Services                   0         0    13,707         0    13,707       62e
(0)       (0)  (10,718)       (0)  (10,718)    (62%)
4. Incremental ogeRatngcosts                0         0       195        76        271      1.2%
i _______________________________ _ i     (0)       (0)     (150)        (0)     (150)      (1%)
TOTAL (including taxes)                 5,454     1,275    14,501       821    22,052      100%          _
%       25%        6%       66%/        4%      100%
PPF                                         0         0       250         0        250
_______________________________         (0)        (0)     (250)       (0)      (250)
TOTAL                                   5,454     1,275    14,751        821    22,302
TOTAL IDA(excluding PPF)               (4,636)   (1,072)  (11,326)       (0)  (17,034)
TOTAL IDA CREDIT                      (4,636)   (1,072)  (11,576)        (0)  (17,284)   (100%)
(27%)      (6%/)    (67%)      (0%)   (1OO%Y)
ID; Costs are given including taxes and contingencies.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed (community financed)



Annex 6
pag 4 of 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review
1. Civil Works              N.A.                     N.A.               N.A.
2. Goods and Equipment
> $100,000                   ICB            $5.5 million total
<$100,000 >$30,000           NCB                0
< $30,000                Nat. Shopping          0
3. Consulting Services
a) Studies and IEC campaigns    > $100,000               QCSB            > $100,000
$3.0 million total
b) Financial audits             All                       LCS            All
$200,000 total
c) Delegated executing agencies  All                      SSS              All
(UNICEF and NGOs)                                                        $6.5 million total
d) Specialized technical studies   < $100,000           Individual       > $50,000
(Section V)      $200,000 total
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental operating costs and
Unallocated                     N.A.                     N.A.                N.A.
Nota:  QCBS  =       Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
LCS   =       Least Cost Selection
SSS    =      Single Source Selection



Annex 6
liage 5 of 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million     Financing Percentage
1. Goods and equipment                         5.145            100% in foreign currency
75% in local currency
2. Consulting services and Training            9.219                    100%
3. Incremental operating costs                 0.135                    90%
4. Unallocated                                 2.535                      --
5. PPF refinancing                             0.250
Total        17.284



Rural Water Supply and Sanitaton Pilot Project (PAEPAR)
Implementation and Procurement Processing Schedule
Component                                 | 1997  | 1998           1999          2000           2001          2002           2003
Negotiations                                                                 Nov. 5____
Board Presentation                                                          Dec. 13
Effectiveness                                                                       Mar. 22
Component 1: Policy and legal framework
1.1 Sector Policy                                                           l I_ll__= __il                                                                  _
Preparation of TOR                                            l       l                                                                  _ .
Consultation to selection procedures                                    . Xl   _
Sector Policy Study - Dissemination/Communication                                                                          _             _
1.2   Preparation  of Water Law__ _ _ _ _                                                                                       __ _ _ _   _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
Preparation of TOR                                                     1 l _            _
Consultation to selection procedures                                   _                                                                  _
Study of Water Law - Dissemination/Communicabon
1.3 Dissemination/Communication of Policy and Legal Framework
Component 2: Sector Reorganization and Capacity Building
2.0 Support to Project Unit
2.1 Sector Reorganization                                                                 E_ _-
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to seletion procedures
Sector Reorganization Study
2.2 DEA Restructuring
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to selection procedures
Assistance for restructuring, training, etc.
2.3 Water Resources Management - Study and Dissemination                                                                                      W ON .
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to selection procedures
Study and Dissemination
2.4 Private Sector Development and Promotion
Component 3.A: Community Needs Assessment, Education, and Support
3.A.1 Environ./Health/ Beneficiaries and Needs Assessments                                        .. _         ,
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to selection procedures
Evaluations
3.A.2 Financing and contributon mechanisms
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to selection procedures
Evaluations                                             9                                                                        ,,s 
3.A.3 Studies of IEC methodology
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to selection procedures
Study of methodology
3.A.4 Technology for water and sanitation services                            _                    i    a.                                 
Preparation of TOR
Consultation to selection procedures
Technology study
3.A.5 IEC Campaigns                                                                                                                                                                          h
Component 3.B: Water and Sanitation Services Extension
3.B.1 Component UNICEF
Pre-project activities
Project activities
3.B.2 Componenent FIKRIFAMA
3.B.3 Component Caritas



Annex 7
page I of I
Annex 7
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                                Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
166                     131
B. Project Schedule                                       Planned                   Actua1
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                      __/_9__                  03/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure                              6 /29/1997               06/20/1997
Negotiations                                             9/29/1997                11/05/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                            11125/1997               03/22/1998
Prepared by: DEA and MEM
Preparation assistance: PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:  Andreas Wildt (Task Officer - Senior Sanitary Engineer),
Mehrnaz Teymourian (Financial Analyst), Anne Martel (Research Assistant), Charlotte Jones (Operational
Analyst), Riadh Abid (Research Assistant), Antoine Lema (Environmental Specialist), Letitia Obeng (Water and
Sanitation Specialist), Lily Wong, Marie-Therese Melkonian (Task Assistants)






Annex 8
Rage I of I
Annex 8
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Detailed Project Cost Tables
B. Cost Benefit Analysis - Detailed Tables
C. UNICEF, FIKRIFAMA and CARITAS project documents
*Including electronic files.






CAS Annex B8
Generated: November 18, 1997
Status of Bank Group Operations in Madagascar
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                  disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                         IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 68
Active Loans
MG-PE-1546    IDA20420    1989                                     AGRIC RES                    0.00       24.00           12.31          3.76      14.90       2.54       S            S
MG-PB-1512   IDA21170    1990  GOV.OF MADAGASCAR                  TANA PLAIN DEV                0.00      30.50             0.00        20.04      18.40       0.00       S            U
MG-PE-1540   IDA21040    1990  GOVT.                              FIN SECTOR/APEX               0.00      48.00            0.00         17.69      13.89       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1515   IDA20940    1990  GOVT.                              EDUC SECT REINP               0.00      39.00              .64         3.21       -.72       -.69       S            S
MG-PE-1520   IDA22510   1991  GOVERNMENT                          NAT HEALTH SECTOR             0.00      31.00             0.00          9.65      7.93       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1549   IDA22430    1991  GOVERNMENT                         LIVESTOCK                     0.00      19.80            0.00          7.07       7.12       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1552   IDA23820    1992  GOVERNMENT                         VOC. EDUCATION                0.00      22.80             0.00          8.49      7.56       0.00       S            HS
MG-PE-ISSO   IDA24970   1993  GOVT OF MADAGASCAR                  FINANCIAL INSTITTYrIO         0.00       6.30            0.00          3.50       3.35       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1553   IDA24740    1993  GOVERNMENT                         FOOD SECURITY & NUTR          0.00      21.30            0.00          4.36       3.30       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1571   IDA24590   1993  GOVERNMEN                           RURAL FIN                     0.00       3.70             0.00           .46       .28       0.00       5            S
MG-PE-35914  IDA26250   1994  GOVT OF MADAGASCAR                  CYCLONE REHABILITATI          0.00      13.10            0.00          1.28        .77       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1583   IDA25910    1994  MTP/MUT                            URBAN WORKS PILOT             0.00      18.30            0.00            .44      -.63       0.00       S            HS
MG-PE-1558   IDA25380    1994  GOVERNMENT                         PET SEC REFORM                0.00      51.90           13.26         35.48      49.63       0.00       U            S
MG-PE-1563   IDA27290    1995  GOVERNMENT                         AG.EXTENSION PROJECT          0.00      25.20            0.00         16.74      19.60       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1522   IDA26440    1995  GOVT. OF MADAGASCAR                IRRIGATION II                 0.00      21.20            0.00         16.38      16.68       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-1533   IDA28440    1996  GOVT OF MADAGASCAR  SCAR           ENERGY SECTOR DEV PR          0.00      46.00             0.00        41.90      43.99       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-35669  IDA27780    1996  GOVT MADAGAS/FOND D'INTER          SOCIAL FUND 2                 0.00      40.00            0.00         23.83      28.53       0.00       S            S
MG-PE-48697  IDA29680    1997  GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR           URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE          0.00      35.00            0.00         34.74      34.91       0.00      HS            HS
MG-PE-1555   IDA29560    1997  GOVERNMENT                         PRIV SECT DEV & C.B.          0.00      23.80            0.00         23.71       0.00       0.00
MG-PE-40019  IDA29110    1997  GOVERNMENT                         CAPACITY BUILDING             0.00      13.83            0.00         10.28      10.86       0.00      NS            S
MG-PE-1537   IDAN0090   1997  REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR              ENVIRON. II                   0.00      30.00            0.00         27.37      -1.00       0.00
Total                                                                                           0.00      564.73           26.21        310.38    279.35       1.85
Act1ve Loans         Closne  Loans          Totl
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                231.64            1,043.52            1,275.16
of which has been repaid:                  0.00               92.77               92.77
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                538.52              899.45            1,437.97
Amount sold                     :                0.00                6.86                6.86
Of which repaid              :                0.00                6.86                6.86
Total Undisbursed               :              310.38                 .74              311.12
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Genrated by die Operations Information System (OIS)






Anmex 10
page 1 of 2
Annex 10
Madagascar at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Saharan    Low-
Madagascar    Africa  Income      Development diamond-
Population mid-1998 (millions)                     14.1      800    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                          240       490      500               Lifeexpectancy
GNP 1996 (bi/ons USS)                               3.4      294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (X)                                      3.1       2.7     1.7      GNP                           Gross
Labor force (%)                                     3.1       2.6     1.7      per                          primary
Most recent estimate likestyeravaflabe since 1989)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulallon)
Urban population (% of tobpopulabon)                 27       31       29.
Life expectancy at birth wesrs)                      52        52      63
Infant mortality (per 1, 0001    birfts)             89       92       69              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of ddn under 5)                32
Access to safe water (% of populalion)               32       47       53
Illiteracy (% of popLal/n age 15+)                   20       43       34               Macar
Gross primary enrollment % ofsdchoolage population)  73       72      105             Low-nc      gmop
Male                                              75        78      112         -oMcm   ru
Female                                            72        aS       96B
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS               -
-    -     S1975    1915   1995    1996
Economic ratlos
GDP billions USS)                          2.3      2.9       3.2     4.1
Gross domestic investrnentGOP              8.1      8.5      10.8    10.0             Openne# of ecnomy
Exports of goods and services/GDP         15.9    11.6       23.3    18.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 3.1      1.3       2.7     4.0
Gross national savings/GDP                 5.0      0.2       0.4     3.1
Current account balance/GDP                -2.4    -8.7      -9.9    -8.8
Interest payments/GDP                      1.3      1.4       0.7     1.4    Savings                     Investrnent
Total debt/GDP                            39.7    88.1    134.5
Total debt serve/exports                  19.6    42.5        9.2
Present value of debtlGDP                  0.0      0.0      99.7
Present value of debVexports               0.0      0.0    420.9                          Indebtednes
197548S 1986-96    1991      1996 1997-06
(averge annu" goW)                                                                      Madagascar
GDP                               -0.3     0.9      1.8       2.0                      Low4ncome group
GNP per eapita                    -3.3    -1.9    -1.4        0.4                 -
Exports of goods and services     -5.0     5.8      3.2       9.7      ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                1976    1988      1995    1996      Growth mtes of output and Invetment(%)
Agriculture                               34.0    35.1       33.8    34.7      fo 
Industry                                  15.8    13.3       13.5    13.1
Manufacturing                              ..    11.5      12.5    12.3       a2   93   9t   r5
Services                                  50.1    51.5       52.7    52.1      40 
Private consumption                       88.1    89.0       90.8    89.6    -'oo
General govemment consumption             10.8      9.8       6.6     6.4              -Goa    -4-GOP
Imports of goods and services             20.9    18.9       31.4    24.2
197646  196S-9S      1996    19S6
(asVerae annua goh)                    178                                    Growth rates of exports and Imports (#)
Agriculture                                0.8      2.2       2.7     3.8      40
Industry                                  -2.7      0.6       1.3     0.8
Manufacturing                              ..     1.5      18.3      1.7    20
Services                                  -0.4      0.9       1.4     1.2
Pfivate consumption                       -0.5      0.8       1.4    -0.3
General govemment consumption              2.8    -1.7        2.2    -3.6
Gross domestic investment                 -2.0      0.1       0.8     5.5    -2
lmportsofgoodsand swvices                  -4.1     2.7       1.1    -1.9                  E*oft        Imp
Gross national product                    -0.7      1.2       1.6     3.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary esffmates.
Tho diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995    1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         60
Consumer pices                                8.3     10.6       49.0     19.8    40
Implicit GOP deflator                         4.7     10.4       46.8     21.1
20
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                          o
Current revenue                                       13.3        8.6      9.0            91   92   93   94   95   so
Currentbudgetbalance                                   2.1       -2.5     -1.1              -     GDPdef.    IcPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -3.9       -6.1     -4.7
TRADE
(millions1USS)                                976     19S6      1996    1996       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                    291        802      513      6o0
Coffee                                               103         93       69
Food Z                                                35         11        7      600
Manufactures                                          37        132      161
Total imports (cif)                                    4686       739      740
Food                                                  50         67       45      200
Fuel and energy                                       85         81       97______
Capital goods                                         o8-       141      174
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..       94       105        92          90  91  92  93  94  s5  se
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..       86        122      121                U Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                              110         88       76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1996    1996
(milions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio ()
Exports of goods and services                 382      350       746      797       0
Imports of goods and services                480       569       987    1,002
Resource balance                              -98     -219       -241     -205
Net income                                    -17     -129       -167     -155      -_
Netcurrenttransfers                            60   98    92   120                     *011             111
Current account balance,                                                           -- 
before offcial capital transfers            -56     -250       -316     -240
Financing items (net)                         24       234       376      375
Changes in net reserves                       31        16        -60     -134     -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mtil. US$)            ..
Conversion rate (Jocal4JSS)                 214.3    662.5   4,265.6  4,061.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions USS)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          906    2,518      4,302
IBRD                                        24        28        12        7                  G    A
IDA                                         54       316      1,110    1,147              F  538  12
Total debtservice                              76      150        70                       77                 1110
IBRO                                          1        3         5        5
IDA                                           0        3        15       17
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                C
Official grants                              34        0         0                                            73
Official creditors                          128      128        61       38
Private creditors                            -1        5         -6                        E       _        6D
Foreign direct investment                     5        0        10                        1928             s64
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  6        73        65       60      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               27        58        76       78      B -IDA    D - Other multblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0         2        11       13      C-IMF                       G-Short-term
Net flows                                   27        56        65       65
Interest payments                             1        4         9        9
Net transfers                               26        52        56       55
Development Economics                                                                                               8/28/97



