Report No. PIC2998
Project Name                   Madagascar-Water Supply Sector Project (@)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                     MGPA1564
Borrower                       Republic of Madagascar
Sector                         Infrastructure
Implementing Agencies          Directorate of Water of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines
BP.: 527, Antananarivo
Fax: 277-90
JIRAMA (Electric Power and Water Utility)
149, rue Rainandriamampandry - BP.: 200
Antananarivo
Project Appraisal Date         June 1997
Projected Board Date           November 1997
Background
In spite of an adequate potential water supply, access to safe
water is low in Madagascar: 23.3 percent in urban areas and 12 percent
in rural ones. The health situation has been seriously affected by the
prevalence of waterborne diseases, that account for more than 70 percent
of all endemic illnesses.
Many governmental agencies are involved in the water sector. The
Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible through its
Directorate of Water (Direction de l'Eau, DE) for developing water
supply policy, assessing water resources and providing general guidance
for water supply undertakings. MEM has supervisory authority over the
state electric power and water utility (JIRAMA) created in 1976. Among
the 120 secondary centers of the country, 65 are the domain of JIRAMA
and 55 report to the state through the Collectivites Decentralisees
(CDs). The Directorates of Rural Engineering, and Water and Forestry of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development are involved in rural
water supply, irrigation and water protection, while the Directorate of
Health and Population of the Ministry of Interior, Decentralization and
Security oversees the health aspects of the sector. An interministerial
National Committee for Water and Sanitation (CNEA), under the Ministry
of Budget, Finance and Planning, is in charge of coordinating actions in
the sector and has completed a Sector Strategy and Action Plan (SSPA)
for water and sanitation in the country. UNICEF and some NGOs such as
FIKRIFAMA, Caritas and FJKM are also very active and efficient in the
provision of rural water supply.
Project Objectives
The project will provide safe water to about 575,000 beneficiaries
in urban and rural areas. The proposed program aims: (i) to provide a



continuous and reliable water supply in selected urban areas, and to
meet the growing demand for water in particular in the peri-urban
poorest neighborhoods; (ii) in the rural subsector, to improve local
maintenance capacity for rural water supply facilities, maximizing the
impact and use of safe water supply. The project is expected to create
a genuine ownership of the facilities by the villagers, whereas actions
on hygiene and sanitation should ensure long-term health benefits; (iii)
to increase economic and management efficiency in the water supply
sector through reform of the legal and regulatory framework covering the
water sector, and through the restructuring of JIRAMA. The efficiency
gains would be shared by consumers through adequate tariff regulation,
and according to the results of JIRAMA's restructuring study, greater
sustainability would be reached through options for splitting certain
support activities, which could be contracted out and later privatized.
Project Description and Financing
The project consists of three major components: (i) technical
assistance to improve personnel management and actions to support the
restructuring of JIRAMA, according to commercial principles; (ii)
rehabilitation and extension of water supply systems in the 14 largest
centers of the country (11 served by JIRAMA and 3 by CDs), not already
included in other donor-financed programs, and encompassing provision of
infrastructure, equipment, tools and work vehicles for maintenance, and
setting up of a water loss reduction program; and (iii) water supply
extension and maintenance for rural communities (some 500 drillings in
the South of the country and 200 gravity pipe water systems to be
carried out by UNICEF and NGOs). Hygiene education and skills in
managing and monitoring rural water supply facilities will be
incorporated into the promotion, mobilization and training program for
communities interested in improving their water supply facilities.
The approximate US$37 million project cost will be financed through
an IDA credit of US$32 million equivalent. The remaining 13 percent of
required financing will be provided through NGOs and UNICEF
(participation in kind and in funding of US$1.2 million equivalent) and
by the Government of Madagascar and JIRAMA, which will altogether
contribute US$3.8 million to local investment costs of improved water
supply.
Project Implementation
The DE will implement the new legal framework and reform of the
water sector (water law, water sector policy letter) and has shown a
real capacity to address institutional problems in participating
actively in the elaboration of the SSPA. The three municipalities,
Anosibe An'Ala, Ihosy and Andriamena, will be in charge of the
rehabilitation of the CD centers. JIRAMA will implement its financial
and organizational restructuring program and supervise the
rehabilitation and extension program in the 11 centers which it already
serves. The rural component will be carried out by specialized and
qualified NGOs (FIKRIFAMA and Caritas) and UNICEF, based on their
expertise and geographic distribution.
Social Aspects
-2-



The proposed project adopts a strong participatory approach.
First, in its demand-driven nature: a beneficiary assessment has been
carried out as part of the preparation process of the project. The
recommendations of this study will feed into the project design.
Regarding the rural component, a request to participate in the project
will be submitted to UNICEF or NGOs by the villagers, who will prove
their real willingness to be involved in such a program, including a
financial participation in maintenance. Secondly, because of the
participation in maintenance: capacity building through training,
communication and education campaigns will be provided to help the
population acquire new skills in managing and monitoring rural water
supply facilities. And third, in its involvement of NGOs: UNICEF and the
NGOs FIKRIFAMA and Caritas have shown their efficiency in implementing
rural water supply and will lead the rural component of the project.
By focusing on rural communities which do not have access to safe
water, the project will benefit the poorest strata of the population.
Women would be the primary target of the mobilization process, as the
sustainability of cost recovery mechanisms will depend highly on their
contribution. Project benefits will also consist of time saved by women
and children in fetching water, which would translate into improved
productivity and greater opportunities for education and training.
Health benefits will be generated by the extended use of safe water
sources. Thus, the proposed program focuses on poverty alleviation and
women's involvement. This investment operation also makes a contribution
to basic infrastructure and public sector management in the water supply
sector.
Environmental Aspect
The project has been classified in category B. An environmental
impact evaluation will be carried out during appraisal. Moreover, IDA
will assist the Government to implement a water resources management
action plan. Hygiene education in the rural areas will bring
improvements to the village environment. Groundwater resources to be
mobilized will be minimal. Water quality will be tested and monitored.
The interactive design and implementation process should also result in
better siting of water points, with regard to potential contamination
and improved management by the villagers.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 3 -



