                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34060

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (PPFI-Q0650 PPFI-P7580 PPFI-P7581 PPFI-P7582 PPFI-P7583 IDA-30250)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION (US$17.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                                FOR THE

                   RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PILOT PROJECT




                                           December 21, 2005




Water and Urban 1
Country Department 8
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2005)

                            Currency Unit = Ariary
                                        AR = US$ 0.495
                                     US$ 1 = AR2023

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1      December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANDEA    Water Basin Agency
AR       Ariary (national currency unit)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDP      Community Development Plan
CNEA     National Water and Sanitation Committee
DEA      Directorate of Water and Sanitation (within MEM)
FMG      Franc Malgache (former national currency unit)
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA      International Development Association
IEC      Information-Education-Communication
JIRAMA   Water and Electricity Public Utility
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MEM      Ministry of Energy and Mines
NGO      Non-Government Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PAEPAR   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project
PPPHW    Public Private Partnership for Hand Washing
PPP      Private Public Partnership
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PU       Project Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RWS      Rural Water Supply
RWSS     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SOREA    (Water) Regulatory Agency
SSPA     Sector Strategy and Action Plan
TA       Technical Assistance
VLOM     Village Level Operation and Maintenance
WASH     Water, Sanitation, Health (consortium of donors and national agencies, led by Wateraid)
W&S      Water and Sanitation
WUA      Water User Association
WUP      Water Utilities Partnership


                          Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                        Country Director       James Bond
                         Sector Manager        Jaime Biderman
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Christophe Prevost

                                REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                         Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
  1. Project Data                                                                    1
  2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
  3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
  4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
  5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
  6. Sustainability                                                                11
  7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
  8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
  9. Partner Comments                                                              14
  10. Additional Information                                                       15
  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
  Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
  Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
  Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
  Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
  Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 27
MAP IBRD NO. 34318

Project ID: P001564                                                  Project Name: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot
Team Leader: Christophe Prevost                                      TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot                  L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0650; PPFI-P7580;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7581; PPFI-P7582;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7583; IDA-30250
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (71%); Central government administration (23%);
                            Sub-national government administration (4%); Sanitation (2%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Decentralization (S); Other communicable diseases (S); Other
                            financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/12/1997                                     Effective: 06/17/1998                06/17/1998
     Appraisal: 06/11/1997                                         MTR: 09/23/2002                  09/23/2002
      Approval: 12/18/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             Christope Prevost                              Andreas Wildt
ICR Primary Author:             Peter Koenig


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


Quality at Entry: 1998 with a rating of "Marginal" ("3" rating)
Project at Risk from 1999 - 2000 - QAG Report November 2001 (rating "2")

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Project Appraisal document (PAD), the main objective of the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Pilot Project (PAEPAR) was to improve the capacity of the Government, the communities and
the private sector to expand a sustainable and cost-effective coverage in water supply and sanitation
(WSS).

The project objective was clear and appropriate in view of the critical challenges facing the WSS
sector at the time of the appraisal, namely: (i) inadequate sector policies and legal and regulatory
frameworks; (ii) inefficient sector organization and coordination; (iii) limited capacity to construct, operate
and maintain WSS systems; (iv) inefficient promotion of community participation and poor sanitary
education; (v) low access to safe water and sanitation in rural areas, poor basic hygiene education and
knowledge of benefits of using potable water and safe sanitation; and (vi) low recovery of user charges to
cover operation and maintenance (O&M) costs.

The project objective was consistent with the Government's priorities. In May 1995, the Government
approved the Sector Strategy and Action Plan (SSPA) which aimed at defining the global and operational
objectives in the WSS sector. The global objectives were to enhance the sector contribution to public health
improvement and strengthen the sector participation in the social and economic process. In rural areas, the
objectives were to alleviate the water fetching burden by reducing time and effort to provide populations
with safe water, and raise the sanitation service level. The medium term objective was to raise the water
supply level of 12 % to 50 % and the sanitation level of 5 % to 30 % by 2010. The SSPA also
recommended specifying the role of the different actors (the state at central and decentralized level,
communes, donors, private sectors and NGO's) to emphasize skills and know-how and to encourage
community participation at each stage of the sector development.

The project objective was in line with the 1997 CAS (Report No. 1628-MAG) which emphasized the
need for "strengthening the capacity to develop efficient WSS services", and "broad based growth and
human capital development through community empowerment to reduce poverty". The project was not
complex or risky in terms of institutional and policy development.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
l Component 1 : Policy and legal framework for the WSS sector (US$1.3 million or 6% of total cost):
    (i) assistance to the formulation of a WSS sector policy and its implementation strategy, (ii) assistance
    to the preparation of a Water Law; and (iii) assistance to the communication and dissemination of
    sector policy and legal framework;

l Component 2 : WSS sector capacity building and institutional development (US$3.6 million or 16
    % of total cost): (i) support to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); (ii) WSS sector restructuring
    study; (iii) assistance to the WSS Directorate (DEA) of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) to
    the implementation of the restructuring, training and capacity building; (iv) water resources
    management study; and (v) assistance to the development of small contractors and companies (artisans,
    masons, extension workers) and promotion of the local private sector;




                                                     - 2 -

l Component 3 : Community based WSS services:


This component included two sub-components:

l Community needs assessment, education and support (US$2.3 million or 10% of total cost): (i)
     beneficiary and demand assessment; (ii) studies on community financing and contribution mechanisms;
     (iii) development of tools to facilitate community mobilization, hygiene education, and establishment of
     a community request system, based on existing material and experiences; (iv) preparation of technology
     choice for rural WSS services; and (v) information education communication (IEC) campaigns;

l Extension of RWSS services (US$15.1 million or 68% of total cost) with the assistance of: (i)
     UNICEF for constructing village boreholes and fitting them with handpumps; (ii) two NGOs for
     constructing gravity systems; and (iii) communities.

The project components represented a balance of institutional support, capacity building and
infrastructure development. They addressed the sector institutional and policy shortcomings and
supported sector reforms by building the capacity of public institutions, NGOs and the private sector. All
these activities were critical in a pilot project. The project physical component was designed to
demonstrate the feasibility of providing sustainable access and also to meet urgent needs of some of the
rural population, in particular in the Southern part of the country that is prone to recurrent famines due to
the extreme scarcity of water resources.

The project design built on successful experience in the country and the region: for the gravity
schemes, it replicated the experience of NGO already active in the sector and for the handpump schemes, it
built on the experience gained in a UNICEF project implemented in the same region. Physical components
were generally well designed. However water quality assurance and sanitation and hygiene education,
which are crucial elements for reaping optimum health benefits of water supply projects, were somewhat
overlooked during preparation and appraisal, but these elements were addressed later on during project
implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The nature of the project components was not revised. However, the project was amended four times
mostly to adjust procurement arrangements, disbursement category amounts and add new activities, as
substantial savings resulting from lower than estimated costs of the physical components (about US$2.5
million) and the appreciation of the SDR (US$1.4 million) during project implementation. As these new
activities did not significantly alter the structure of the project, no formal restructuring was necessary. The
closing date of the Credit was postponed from June 30, 2003 to June 30, 2005, so that funds could be fully
utilized.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) was carried out in FY98. The overall assessment of quality of
preparation was assessed as "Marginal" ("3" rating). It appears from the QEA ratings that the project was
not ready for implementation, sector policy reform objectives were too ambitious and did not have
sufficient government ownership, particularly with regard to the urban side, and contracting arrangements
for drilling boreholes did not seem to have been thoroughly thought out. However, the QEA review of the
project, together with a change of team management was instrumental in leading to an early change in some
project implementation arrangements, in particular for the drilling contracting arrangements. The judgment
of the QEA panel seems appropriate at the time of the review. Nevertheless, in retrospect, it appears overly



                                                        - 3 -

severe, since the project did manage to largely achieve its main objectives, as elaborated below.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory.

The achievements of the project are assessed against its initial objective. The assessment takes into
account: (i) the outcome indicators (Annex 1) defined in the PAD and (ii) the findings of the impact survey
carried out at the end of the project in 200 communities which benefited from the project. Particular
attention was paid to the participatory process, water use and hygiene, functioning of the water point
committees and perception of the benefits and quality of service.

Realistic future projects are designed and funding obtained:

The Government has successfully developed the legal, institutional and policy framework to support
its rural water supply strategy, developed with the assistance of the project, to scale up investment in
the years to come. A new water Law was adopted in 1999 and all related by-laws by 2003. In 2005, the
Government endorsed the national WSS program (Programme National d'Accès à l'Eau Potable et à
l'Assainissement-PNAEPA) aimed at reaching the MDG for the water and sanitation sector. The
Government has also developed, with the support of the project, a number of tools to allow a smooth
transition from a "pilot" project to a "programmatic" and "budget support" approach. Total financing for
the RWSS national program increased from US$10.6 million in 2004 to US$ 14.6 million in 2005 (of
which about 40% were provided from internal resources) which allowed provision with safe water of about
148,000 people in 2004 and 222,000 in 2005, compared to less than 50,000 people served in 2001. Two
new RWSS projects based on the model developed under the project were launched in 2005; AfDB finances
them for a total amount of US$100 million equivalent.

Adequate repair and maintenance is being carried out and at least 70 % of the water systems are
functioning properly in the project area two years after completion:

The Government has successfully tested with the support of communities, private sector and NGOs,
the service delivery arrangements to expand sustainable and cost effective water supply. More water
supply systems than originally planned were built and about 400,000 people (compared to 280,000 targeted
at appraisal) have gained access to safe water through the construction of 627 boreholes equipped with
hand pumps and 320 gravity schemes. The survey found that all the 200 communities were managing their
water systems in a satisfactory manner with the support of the village caretakers trained by the project and
that spare parts were available at local small distributors supported by the project. All the gravity piped
water systems and over 95 % of the hand pumps were properly functioning at the time of the survey, i.e.
about three years after works completion. The main problems encountered with the hand pumps are due to
the non replacement by the communities of wearing parts on the pedal which must be normally changed on
an annual basis and which are available in all the outlets set up by the pumps supplier in the region. The
average cost per capita is US$36 per borehole equipped with a hand pump and US$ 19 per gravity piped
system. This is low when compared with similar projects in Africa.

Number of requests for water system by communities reaches 500 by 2002:

The central and local governments and communities are now fully aware of the benefits of potable



                                                      - 4 -

water and adequate sanitation. The Government now recognizes that WSS is of prime importance for
developing the country and for preventing diseases: access to potable water is now among the top five
priorities on Government's Agenda "Madagascar Naturellement!" (Madagascar Naturally!). Because of
its presence throughout the country, the project has raised awareness of the benefits and strong demand for
safe water: as of mid-2005, more than 3,000 requests for water points were pending at DEA. This is a
remarkable achievement for a sector that has been historically neglected and under funded: with only 14 %
of the population having access to safe water in rural areas in 2004, Madagascar has one of the lowest
coverage ratios of the Africa region.

At least four new companies for constructing water systems are registered by the end of the project:

Sector delivery capacity has increased to about 300 new gravity systems per year (to be compared to less
than 100 when the project started) as 8 new NGO's have been created recently and to about 350 boreholes
per year as international drilling companies are currently strengthening their capacity in the country.

Findings of the impact survey:

The findings of the impact survey carried out in May 2005 can be summarized as follows:

l Distance for fetching water has decreased from about 3 kilometers to less than 500 meters;
l Average time spent for fetching water has been reduced by 40 minutes per trip;
l Water consumption has almost doubled , from an average 9 lpcd to 17 lpcd;
l Water-borne diseases have been reduced (cholera, by 100%; bilharzias, by 43 %; and diarrhea, by
    8%). These data were collected from 28 Health Centers (Centre de Santé de Base) located in the project
    area, and cover the period between 2002 and 2004;
l Cost of medication has been cut by 37%, equivalent to about US$9 per household per year.


These health impacts cannot be attributed solely to the RWSS. Other factors, including improvements in
education, nutrition, housing/living environment, income and employment and availability of health services
are undoubtedly also involved. More proximate indicators such as use of latrines, safe storage of drinking
water and hand washing may be better indicators of the impacts that can be attributed more directly to this
project. Unfortunately, data on such proximate indicators was not gathered.

The project was less successful in expanding access to basic sanitation, and its related activities
remained limited. However, the project successfully tested the promotion of household latrines and set up
the framework for developing a large scale hand washing campaign supported by a Public Private
Partnership for Hand Washing with Soap Initiative (PPPHW), launched by the Government in 2002.

Overall, the project outcome is rated satisfactory because (i) it achieved its Development objectives,
and, as explained below, (ii) it is sustainable; and (iii) the economic benefits are higher than expected at
appraisal. The project also helped the Government work with all stakeholders, and was instrumental in
demonstrating the key role local NGO and private sector can play in developing the sector. In addition, the
RWSS sector is ready for a major scale up through budget support over the coming years.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1. Component 1 - Policy and legal framework for the W&S sector (US$0.7 Million, 56 % of
appraisal estimates) is rated "Highly Satisfactory". The design of the component and its rating is based
on the achievement of outputs listed in the PAD.



                                                       - 5 -

l The Water Law was promulgated in January 1999 and bylaws and decrees approved in 2003, a
    remarkable achievement in a four-year period.

l As part of the implementation of the Water Law, ANDEA (national water resource agency) and
    SOREA (water regulatory agency) have been created, partially staffed and have started their activities.
    They are attached to the Prime Minister's office, but operate under the auspices of MEM. It is too
    early to judge their performance.

l The WSS sector policy and implementation strategy was formulated after involving all major
    stakeholders. It became in 2005 the "Eau Pour Tous" (Water for All) policy paper used to market the
    sector best practices along with a Water for All documentary financed by UNICEF. That led to the
    national WSS program (PNAEPA) fully endorsed by the Government in June 2005. This document
    now forms the basis for the urban and rural WSS sectors action plans that the Government envisages
    to finance by a mix of external financing and internal resources.

l The sector policy allows the "Affermage" (lease contract) of water services in small towns not served
    by the public power/water utility JIRAMA to local private operators. This approach, actively
    supported by the Government, is now being implemented.

4.2.2. Component 2 ­ WSS sector capacity building and institutional development (US$5.1 million,
150 % of appraisal estimates) is rated satisfactory. The design of the component was appropriate and its
rating is based on the outputs specified in the PAD.

l Capacity building for the Project Unit and DEA was successful. Operational capacity of the DEA has
    been strengthened at the central and provincial levels by the provision of vehicles and computers and by
    the recruitment of 13 staff ahead of scaling up the rural WSS program (as part of the rural water sector
    triggers under PRSC2) and training was provided in the areas of procurement and financial
    management.

l Although the QAG panel that reviewed quality of supervision concluded that the project was not the
    best vehicle for supporting an urban WSS sector reform, several activities related to this sector were
    carried out, partly because the project was the only source of funding available to the Government.
    These activities have been carried out successfully. They included: (i) drafting of statutes for the urban
    WSS Asset Holding Company; (ii) coordination meetings with regional stakeholders on the AHC; (iii)
    workshop on urban W&S sector reform ; (iv) update of the WSS development plan for Nosy Be
    island, a "growth pole" to be included in a future IDA financed project; (v) a study to help the AES
    organization (Alimentation en Eau du Sud) to improve current deteriorating water services delivery
    mechanism ; and (vi) a WSS tariff study that included an assessment of the willingness to pay for WSS
    and of the investment needed for reaching the MDG in urban WSS. The Government used the
    conclusions of this study to progressively raise the water rates.

l The project also financed a number of studies and activities not foreseen at appraisal aimed at
    strengthening DEA capacity to implement a full scale rural WSS program. They include : (i)
    preparation of a result oriented program budget for FY04 to 06; (ii) drafting of a manual of standard
    procedures for implementation and management of future rural WSS projects; (iii) an exhaustive field
    inventory of the existing 5,500 rural water points and setting up of a computerized database to provide
    an accurate base line for future planning; (iv) development of DEA/MEM website; and (v)
    identification of local capacities to implement a full scale rural WSS program with the active


                                                     - 6 -

    participation of all stakeholders (donors, NGO, private sector.

l Sector coordination improved under the project with annual reviews of the achievement, program
    budget, pending issues, best practices and formulation of recommendations now carried out with the
    participation of all key stakeholders.

l An AIDS awareness campaign has been organized for staff of the contractors and NGOs.


l Finally, an innovative delivery mechanism for developing water service in small towns was tested by
    the project during the last year of implementation, which provided about 50% (about US$10 per
    capita) of the financing needed to build the systems or expand the service (mostly by supplying pipes,
    equipment and meters) to the local government. Private operators and community/local government
    provide under their own arrangements the remaining 50% and signed a medium term affermage
    contract for the water service. The project also provided technical assistance to develop contracts.
    Twenty four small towns are involved in this pilot exercise. At the end of the project, 18 contracts were
    signed, four systems were completed and six were under construction. It was anticipated at the
    launching of that initiative in June 2004 that not all the systems would be completed at the project
    closing, but would be by the end of 2007. It is estimated that at least 115,000 people will get access to
    safe water when all the 24 small town piped systems will be completed.

4.2.3. Component 3 ­ Community based water and sanitation Services (US$15.9 Million, 123 % of
appraisal estimate) is rated satisfactory. The design of the component was appropriate and its rating is
based on the outputs specified in the PAD.

    Community needs assessment, education and support (US$1.7 million, 94 % of appraisal estimate).
    This sub-component is rated satisfactory:

l An environmental and health impact study was carried out in 1999 which proposed the protection of
    the sources, an advice that was followed in 2002 when water quality testing was introduced and
    coliform contamination detected on almost all water points tapped by gravity schemes; systematic
    chlorination in reservoirs was recommended during supervision but seldom implemented by
    communities.

l The tools to facilitate community mobilization, hygiene education were developed as planned and used
    by the NGOs to mobilize and work with the rural communities.

l The project financed a study to develop the hand washing with soap practices. Results were tested in
    15 villages in the region of Bekili covered by the handpump component. Two hundred community
    hygiene promotion sessions were organized. This pilot was very instructive. The lessons learnt were
    integrated in the national sanitation strategy. The project also supported the national coordination to
    support the Public Private Partnership hand washing with soap initiative, launched in 2001, under the
    umbrella of WASH and the design of the national communication campaign. A scaled up hand washing
    with soap campaign is being planned at the national level using both media and consumer contact
    techniques

l The project trained, with the support of the NGO, 40 masons for the construction of sanitary latrines in
    the southern part of the country, but this did not result in a major development of such facilities.
    However, 150 household latrines were constructed directly by the masons at the request of rural
    families, during project implementation. The cost of a latrine is estimated at about US$ 15, including


                                                     - 7 -

  US$ 7 for the San Plat slab. That constitutes an excellent start considering the context.

l IEC will continue to be an important tool for the dissemination of appropriate practices. DEA plans to
  expand the IEC campaign initiated under the project to cover the entire country and to budget about
  US$300,000/year for this activity.

  Extension of Water Supply and Sanitation Services (US$14.2 Million, 128 % of appraisal estimate).



  This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. Indeed, output exceeded appraisal expectations in
  terms of number of handpumps installed and gravity piped systems built, an excellent achievement for
  a project that initially suffered significant delays. Field activities started early 2001, i.e. about 30
  months following Board approval, and were put on standby for 6 months during the 2002 crisis, which
  stopped most economic activities in the country.

  Construction of 500 boreholes :

l As UNICEF did not have the resources to guarantee smooth implementation, the Bank proposed to call
  for bids for this component, which should probably have been recommended in the first place.
  However, because the Bank did not approve the selection of the contractor proposed for the drilling of
  boreholes a re-bidding was necessary and led to substantial delays. Despite this, at project completion,
  627 productive boreholes had been drilled and equipped with handpumps to serve about 146,000
  people. Implementation of this sub-component relied entirely on the capacity of the private sector:
  NGO, drilling contractor, and later handpump caretakers and spare parts distributors. An average
  drilling success rate of about 70% was achieved (against 65% as expected) due to proper well siting
  techniques (photo interpretation and geophysics).

l The average cost of US$8,300 per successful water point (average depth: 39 meters against 45 meters
  as anticipated; average yield: 1.25 m3/day) or about US$36 (of which 24% for engineering fees, 47%
  drilling, 10% for the hand pump and 19% for IEC, installation of hand pumps and training of water point
  committees and caretakers) per capita compares favourably with similar projects in Africa.
  Communities contributed about US$270 equivalent towards the construction cost, of which US$15 in
  cash and the balance in kind for developing a sanitary surrounding of the pump. It currently costs
  about US$37 per year to maintain a handpump, including the purchase of parts required for scheduled
  maintenance and caretaker compensation.

l Vegetable gardens have been developed around most water points, a development that was not foreseen
  at appraisal. It has been estimated that these gardens generate an average revenue of about US$20 per
  household per year.

l The handpumps selected under the project meet the VLOM (village level operated and maintained)
  criteria. But at US$760 delivered to the project site, it is fairly expensive (This bid was the second
  lowest. The lowest bid, proposing patent free Afridev pumps, that also meet the VLOM criteria, withdrew
  following the major delays in contract award that affected the project during its initial phase of
  implementation); it holds a patent, but is guaranteed for five years by the manufacturer. The nearby
  UNICEF project had installed less expensive and patent free India MkII pumps which however do not
  quite meet the VLOM concept.

l All the water point committees were trained by the NGO before and during pumps installation. In



                                                     - 8 -

    addition, the staff of the DEA based in Toliara organized 36 workshops to provide additional training
    to the villages caretakers and stimulate networking.

l The hand pump scheme, as implemented, is likely to be replicable as implementation procedures and
    technologies have been successfully tested. It is also likely to be sustainable, as its implementation and
    operation rely on the private sector, which proved able to deliver.

    Construction of 180 gravity systems:

l This sub-component was designed based on an established local tradition of community participation
    and NGO coordination. At project completion, a total of 320 gravity systems had been built in the
    central highland and eastern regions of the country to serve a total of about 251,000 people.

l The average cost per gravity piped system is US$15,000 (of which 44% for the supply of pipes, cement
    and r-bars; 31% for the NGO coordinating the construction ­ including 5% for soft activities ­ and 25% in
    kind beneficiary contribution for the labor), (or US$19 per capita). It compares favorably with the
    US$25,000 obtained by the "Projet de dotation de points d'eau des collectivités décentralisées"
    (decentralized water points project), financed by the Ministry of Decentralization and implemented by
    DEA which sub-contracts all activities to private contractors and the US$75,000 (US$35/capita)
    obtained under a FID (Social Funds IDA project) that has sub-contracted to private contractors the
    construction of about 90 somewhat larger systems to serve 192,000 people.

l Communities contributed an average US$3,800 toward the project cost either in kind (all non
    specialized labour such as that needed for digging trenches) or in cash for the transportation of pipes
    from the capital city.

l 320 Water committees which collect user charges to replenish the village treasury have been trained by
    the two NGOs which coordinated implementation of this sub-component to carry out regular O&M
    tasks; sub-committees are usually set up for each standpipe (a gravity system serves an average 8
    standpipes).

l Insufficient attention was initially paid to the bacteriological quality of the water delivered, and
    independent lab tests carried out in 2003 reported the presence of coliforms. This triggered the
    implementation of a systematic spring protection program, including the fencing of the surroundings of
    the springs and the promotion of regular cleaning of reservoirs with chlorine. Regular sterilization has
    however not taken place on a large scale, despite the availability of chlorine products at local shops;
    health education needs to be intensified during the years to come.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The ERR is estimated significantly higher (26%) than estimated at appraisal (17%); 14% for the
handpump sub-component and 48% for the gravity schemes. That is due to higher physical achievements.
Also, the original ERR was based on the assumption that schemes would become operational one year after
completion; in fact, all schemes were operational immediately after completion. The original ERR would
have been 18.5% if it had been based on this assumption.

The NPV is estimated significantly higher than expected, at US$8.0 million equivalent to be compared
to US$3.6 million at appraisal, again because of higher physical achievements than anticipated (Annex 4).




                                                       - 9 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated substantial.

The project has been successful in building the capacity of the central DEA to deliver a meaningful rural
WSS program and to a lesser extent of DEA decentralized structures. In particular, DEA has developed a
capacity for program budgeting and for carrying out training programs for the staff of its provincial
offices, municipal governments and communities. The project has also helped DEA to develop procurement
and financial management capacities, which are gradually being decentralized. The project has
demonstrated the key role that professional NGO can play in the efficient implementation of large rural
WSS programs and initiated the demonstration of the key role that the local private sector could play in the
delivery of piped water supply services in small towns.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The 2002 crisis over the outcome of the presidential election left the country paralyzed for six months. All
construction activities and Bank supervision missions were put on hold; they resumed soon after a solution
to the crisis was found. This situation obviously created some delays but did not affect significantly the
project outputs; on the contrary, the project delivered much more than what was agreed at appraisal.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Major delays in a key sub-component occurred due to insufficient understanding of Bank procurement
guidelines as well as external support to a company that submitted the lowest bid contract during the first
bidding process for boreholes drilling. The proposed company, which had neither the relevant experience
nor the required financial resources, should have been eliminated at a proper pre or post-qualification.
There were minor disagreements on the evaluation of bids for the second bid process, but eventually it was
agreed to award the contract to the lowest bidder, who performed satisfactorily. As a result of this delay,
the supplier who had submitted the lowest bid for handpumps withdrew his bid, and the contract had to be
awarded to the second lowest bidder. Implementation of this sub-component started in 2001, i.e. 30 months
after effectiveness.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The PIU and DEA paid insufficient attention to the water quality, sanitation and public health issues,
despite detailed recommendations by Bank supervision missions. Water distributed by the gravity schemes
is still not regularly sterilized and its bacteriological quality not guaranteed. Similarly, the construction of
individual latrines and the hand washing with soap activities have remained marginal. These are aspects
that would need close monitoring during implementation of a full scale rural WSS program, and should be
incorporated in the TOR of the NGO in charge of its implementation and in the contract of the local private
operators running the water systems installed in small towns.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$22.30 million equivalent. Of this, US$17.3 million
were to be provided by IDA, US$3.4 million by the Government, US$0.8 by the beneficiaries and US$ 0.8



                                                       - 10 -

million by UNICEF. At project closing, US$18.3 million had been disbursed from the IDA Credit, and the
Government and the communities had contributed US$2.3 and US$1.4 million equivalent, respectively.
Exchange rate variation of the US$ against the SDR and of the local currency against the US$ combined
with lower than anticipated unit costs, resulted in a saving of about US$3.9 million, that was used to
finance additional boreholes and gravity systems as well as additional studies and activities aimed at
scaling up the experience gained under the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Both the gravity and handpump schemes are likely to be sustainable:

Gravity systems are simple and the quality of construction is good. No failure has been reported despite
the several years since the first schemes built under the project were commissioned; indeed, according to
one of the NGOs in charge of this sub-component that has built some 1,000 gravity schemes in the country
during the last 10 years, more than 90% of them are functioning well. Where these are problems, these
primarily related to the decrease of the spring yield for which there is no remedy.

Boreholes have been professionally sited, drilled and developed; handpumps are guaranteed for five years
by the manufacturer and meet the VLOM concept. Adequate training and equipment have been provided to
village caretakers; spare parts are available at local shops. (The 115 India MkII pumps installed by the
UNICEF project are maintained by two private local contractors based in the area paid directly by the
communities. After 10 years it is reported that 95% are still working well). The availability of spare parts
supply can become an issue in the long run. However, DEA has decided to allow only three types of
handpumps in the country to limit standardization problems and maintain a sizable market for each
supplier.

Communities have been properly organized to collect user charges to finance and carry out O&M
activities. The villagers' enthusiasm for safe and accessible water supply is strong and a good indicator of
potential for satisfactory maintenance. And perhaps even more importantly, the NGOs that installed the
pumps, trained the caretakers and those that coordinated the construction of the gravity schemes remain
present all over the national territory.

The O&M arrangements put in place under the project are well adapted to small communities (up to 500
people), but may be not applicable to larger communities or small towns where community cohesion may
be lower and not be sufficient to guarantee proper O&M; DEA is thus testing the Affermage model
described above in small towns.

Project Replicability

The project is likely to be replicable. In fact, its implementation arrangement has been retained as the
reference for all new rural WSS projects: Project identification, design, implementation ­ including
procurement ­ procedures have been successfully tested. The gravity scheme sub-component was spread all
over the national territory, and the professional NGO which implemented it have been key to its success.
For the handpump sub-component, international consultants have successfully developed local capacity for
well siting and construction supervision; international competitive bidding (ICB) has been proven to be the
best option for obtaining the best quality price package for the drilling of boreholes. The program can be
scaled up based on the current centralized approach for planning, execution and supervision of program



                                                      - 11 -

implementation with the support of NGOs and the private sector. And as the capacity of the DEA at the
provincial level will be strengthened, a greater number of activities, actually carried out by the centre, could
be undertaken by the staff of the DEA based in the provinces in the coming years. Though a case can be
made that it would have been useful to have an opportunity for more capacity-building (e.g. through an
investment loan) before adopting the programmatic approach, the transition to programmatic funding
appears to be proceeding quite smoothly.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Both the boreholes and gravity systems components were completed and put into operation before the
project closing date. Water point committees are adequately equipped with tools to fix breakdowns and
trained to carry out the regular maintenance. The presence in the field of NGOs involved in the project as
well as the staff of the ministry in charge of water based in the provincial capital will monitor and assist the
communities in case of specific needs.

The DEA and its provincial Units will continue to supervise the on-going works in order to achieve the
construction of the small town water systems, according to initial technical studies. The DEA will also
continue to organize regular meetings with the 24 mayors and recruited or potential operators to review
progress, exchange views, address pending issues and facilitate the networking process amongst private
operators and municipalities.

It could have been expected that a larger project would follow the pilot project, or an additional financing
operation. Instead the Bank will continue its support to the rural WSS sector through the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) program. To support the transition from project to budget support, the
project already financed several studies, stakeholder consensus, capacity building and logistics (see
Component 2). In addition, DEA will benefit from international and national technical assistance over the
next three years both to strengthen the program budget process and support M&E activities. That technical
assistance will be financed by the Bank financed capacity building project (Governance and Institutional
Development Project) and supervised by RWSS specialists involved in the PRSC team. UNICEF will also
provide technical assistance to strengthen DEA hygiene and sanitation activities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The performance of the Bank during project preparation is rated satisfactory, despite some design
shortcomings (procurement of the drilling contract and oversight of the hygiene/sanitation aspect of rural
WSS). Project preparation was generally sound and based on participatory approaches and least cost
solutions. Retrospectively, the "3" rating of the QEA appears somewhat severe based on the very positive
outcome of the project.

7.2 Supervision:

The performance of the Bank during project implementation is rated satisfactory.

In June 2000, the project had three flags (macro management, slow disbursements and "high" overall
project risk). The main reason for slow disbursement was a substantial delay in procurement of the key
contract for the drilling of boreholes, which was satisfactorily corrected in June 2001. A Quality of
Supervision of Risky Projects was carried out in November 2001. The quality of supervision was



                                                     - 12 -

assessed as "overall satisfactory" ("2" rating) as the QAG panel expected that "the project will likely
succeed in building up the capacity to expand coverage in water supply in rural areas in a cost effective and
sustainable way", mentioning also that "after the major procurement issue was resolved in May 2000, the
team rightly focused on relaunching, and catching up with the boreholes component". However, the Panel
judged that "the project may fall short of addressing the policy and legal framework for the urban water
sector, judged to be an "ancillary and unwarranted sub-objective" in a rural water supply pilot project".

Supervision missions worked in a professional manner, raised issues in due time, corrected the project
design shortcomings and showed flexibility to help solve problems in particular on procurement issues and
the use of savings. The presence of one staff based in the country during the second half of project
implementation contributed to its successful implementation. The collaboration with the Water and
Sanitation Program (WSP) was particularly productive and helped to improve the quality of the IEC as
well as focus on water quality, hygiene and sanitation. Supervision missions also anticipated well the
transition from a pilot project to a program budgeting approach.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory: it helped put rural WSS on the Government "radar
screen" by: (i) by pro-actively contributing to the implementation of a project that delivered more than what
was initially anticipated in terms of reliable and sustainable service; and (ii) helping in the design of a
roll-out strategy.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower prepared a
project based on a limited but successful experience and good practice for both the gravity scheme and the
handpump sub-components. It also focused its attention on longer term sustainability issues by envisaging
the use of the project as the main vehicle for launching a major rural WSS program and putting in place the
appropriate legal and institutional frameworks.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Notwithstanding the procurement issue at the beginning of project implementation, the Government
performance is rated satisfactory. It provided strong support to the project and provided counterpart
funding in due time, as well as focusing on the above mentioned sustainability issues and scaling up for
greater impact.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the PIU, which was fully integrated entity within DEA, is rated highly satisfactory.
Its staff displayed an extraordinary team spirit and commitment to the project objectives. In addition to the
higher than originally anticipated project achievements, it also earned the confidence of rural populations,
mayors and other decentralized government officials. Yet the PIU staff was only remunerated according to
Government salary scales without any extra incentive payments, as is the case for many similar PIUs.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Borrower demonstrated an unwavering



                                                     - 13 -

commitment to the project objective and strongly supported the PIU throughout the project cycle.

8. Lessons Learned

l Professional NGOs can be instrumental to support rural communities to formulate the project, for
    keeping capital cost low and for providing assistance to communities after facilities have been built
    improving sustainability.

l Rural communities can contribute significantly towards the capital cost of the project, mostly in kind,
    as well as 100% of O&M cash costs.

l Economies of scale can be achieved by grouping construction activities to be carried out in small rural
    communities under large multi-year umbrella contracts.

l It is necessary to include sanitation and improved hygiene behavior in the design of a rural WSS
    project design from the very beginning, as it appears very difficult to catch up during project
    implementation.

l Hand washing with soap should be part of any RWSS national strategy as it is a key element for
    reducing the risk of contracting intestinal diseases and thus improving health outcomes of the project.

l Regular water quality testing and measures to improve and maintain drinking quality water, especially
    bacteriological standards, are necessary and must be closely monitored.

l The concept of pilot project of this size is well adapted to test innovative approaches and conditions
    under which they can be replicated at a large scale A pilot project is a good instrument to help design
    sector development policy, build institutional sector capacity, test service delivery mechanisms and
    strengthen sector coordination. In this instance, it helped to prepare the rural WSS sector for a
    programmatic approach and budget support that will effectively scale up reforms and investment using
    the country's institutions. This is essential given the huge needs the country required to reach the
    Millennium Development Goal, i.e. providing access to safe water for 52% of the rural population and
    54% to basic sanitation by 2015. It remains to be seen whether the capacity building supported by this
    pilot project will be sufficient to ensure successful programmatic scaling up with sustainability, but the
    transition is going well to date.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    See Annex 8.

The Borrower has submitted an implementation completion report which is attached unedited as Annex 8.
Its assessment is comprehensive. The overall assessment of the project is consistent with that of the ICR.
The report assesses achievements of the project objectives as "satisfactory", Bank performance as "
Satisfactory".

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                      - 14 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Development Objectives        Indicators                 Baseline  Target  Final
                                                                           Outcome
Improved capacities of         Realistic future project  Not               Achieved
government, communities and are designed and             Relevant
private sector to expand       funding commitment
sustainable and cost-effective are obtained in the
coverage in water supply and sector by the year 2000
sanitation                     Adequate repair and       No data   70%     > 90 %
                               maintenance is carried
                               out in project area and
                               newly constructed or
                               rehabilitated water
                               systems are functioning
                               properly two years
                               after completion of
                               works.
                               The number of request     No data   500     3000
                               for new systems
                               transmitted by
                               communities to local
                               agencies (NGOs or
                               local government
                               New companies for         1         4       8 new
                               well and boreholes                          NGOs
                               construction are                            created
                               registered by the end of
                               the project
Output Objectives
Sector policy and legal        Sector policy and         Not               Achieved
framework are designed         action plan approved      Relevant
                               by Government
                               Water law presented to    Not               Achieved
                               the Assembly, by-laws     Relevant
                               issued by the MEM
Sector re-organization reform Donors coordination        Not               Achieved
carried out and capacity built established               Relevant
                               National manual of        Not               Achieved
                               procedures for            Relevant
                               implementing and
                               managing RWSS
                               systems
                               National M&E system       Not               Achieved
                               in place                  Relevant
Community based Water and Studies carried out and        Not               Achieved



                                                   - 16 -

sanitation services developed IEC strategy developed   Relevant
                              and implemented
                              Boreholes drilled and              500      627
                              equipped with hand
                              pumps
                              Gravity piped systems              180      320
                              built
                              Piped system                       24       6
                              constructed in small
                              towns through PPP
                              Population served                  280,000  400,000




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

(Actual/Last Estimate figures - as of June 30, 2005)

a) Project Cost by Component (US$ million)

            Components                     Appraisal       Actual / Last      Percentage of
                                            Estimate         Estimate           Appraisal
1. Policy and Legal Framework for the
RWSS Sector                                      1.0             0.5               50
2. RWSS Sector Reorganization and
Capacity Building Sector                         2.6             5.2               200
3. Community Based RWSS Services
(Pilot)
a) community needs assessment                    1.8             0.2               11
b) Water systems construction                   11.0           12.1                110
Total Baseline Cost                             16.4           18.0
- Physical Contingencies                         1.0
- Price Contingencies                            1.6             0.3
Total                                           18.9           18.3
Taxes (TTL)                                      3.1             3.7
PPF Refinancing                                  0.3
Total Financing Required                        22.3           22.0


b) Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements - Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)
                                               Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                ICB           NCB        Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0            0            0           0.8       0.8
2. Goods                              5.5          1.3          0.6         0         7.4
3. Services                           0            0          13.7          0        13.7
4. Miscellaneous                                                0.4                   0.4
Total                                 5.5          1.3        14.7          0.8      22.3

c) Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements - Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million)
                                                      Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                ICB          NCB         Other       N.B.F.      Total
                                                                                     Cost
1. Works                            4.5             0           0.0         0          4.5
2. Goods                            6.6             1.1         0.3         0          8.0
3. Services                          8.7            0           0.5         0          9.2
4. Miscellaneous                                                0.3                    0.3
Total                              19.8             1.1         1.1         0         22.0




                                                   - 18 -

d) Project Financing by Component and Source (US$ million)
                              Appraisal             Actual/Latest
                              Estimate                 Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Component                Bank  Govt.    CoF    Bank    Govt.  CoF  Bank    Govt.   CoF
1. Policy and Legal
Framework for the          0.8     0.4            0.5      0.2        60      50
RWSS Sector
2. RWSS Sector
Reorganization and
Capacity Building Sector   2.4     1.0            5.2      1.0       216    100
3. Community Based
RWSS Services (Pilot)
a) community needs        0.7      1.6            0.2                 28       0
assessment
b) Water systems          9.1      3.9           12.1      2.5       133      64
construction
Physical Contingencies     0.9     0.1
Price Contingencies       1.2      0.2            0.3
Total                     15.1     7.2           18.3      3.7




                                               - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                             A. Economic / Costs and Benefits Analysis

The economic analysis in the PAD and thus the ICR focuses on Extension of Water Supply and Sanitation
Services sub component of the Community based water and sanitation Services component, which
represents 65 % of total project cost. The economic analysis for the ICR is based on the assumptions of the
PAD, annex 4: Cost benefit Analysis Summary is updated with the Impact assessment study of the project
carried out at the end of the project


Summary Table

       FMG million / year                         320 Gravity                   627 Wells /            320 Gravity systems /
                                                    Systems                      Boreholes             627 wells / boreholes
Benefits
Time saved*                                            193,000                     111,000                         304,000
Increase in consumption**                              454,000                     261,000                         715,000
Reduction in health                                     28,000                       16,300                          44,300
expenditures
Total Benefits                                         675,000                     388,300                      1,063,300
Costs
Investment Costs                                        40,000                       43,400                          83,400
Operational Cost                                          4,100                      81,000                          85,100
Maintenance                                               3,400                       6,300                            9,700
Total Costs                                             47,500                     130,700                         178,200
Benefits net (FMG)                                     627,500                     257,600                         885,100
NPV***                                                  88,000                        9,000                          89,000
ERR                                                    48%                           14%                           26%
* time saved estimated at 4 working days / system @ FMG 9,300 / day
** time saved to collect additional 8 li/c/day = FMG 4,356/c/year
*** sum of NPV gravity systems / wells is no linear addition, as implementation rhythm of two sub-components was different


The following hypotheses apply:

·          Discount rate: 12%
·          Cost / benefits were evaluated only for the physical components of the project
·          Duration: 25 years, starting from the first year of operation of the physical installations.
·          Costs are without taxes.


Number of Beneficiaries per system


                                    Number                            Population served               Population per system
Gravity System                                320                           251, 403                          786
Wells / boreholes                             627                           146, 091                          233
TOTAL                                         947                           397, 494                          420




                                                                      - 20 -

Quantification of Benefits

Project benefits were based on:

Number of population per system                                    420
Time saved per family per water fetching                           40 minutes
Family size                                                        6 people
Number of families per system                                      70
Estimated % of people fetching water per water point               20%
Consommation/person/day                                            17 liters
Consumption per household                                          102 liters
Water fetchings trip per day                                       4

The ERR increased from 17% at appraisal to 26% at project closing, mainly because of a much larger than
projected physical output of the project, i.e. from 500 planned equipped boreholes to 627, and from 180
planned gravity systems to 320.

In fact, post evaluation concluded that individual sub-projects became operational immediately after they
were build, while at appraisal the assumption was that they would become operational only the following
year. Adjusting the original ERR estimate by this factor would have led to an ERR of 18.4% at appraisal.

Vegetable gardens in the southern well construction districts were not foreseen at appraisal. They
contributed an estimated additional combined family income of about US$ 28,000 equivalent from 2001
through 2004.

The NPV increased from an estimated US$ 3.56 million at appraisal to about US$ 8 million equivalent,
also due to a larger than expected physical output.

The fiscal impact (tax accrual) was estimated at US$ 3.1 million at appraisal; according to estimates at
project closing, the fiscal contribution was US$ 3.7 million equivalent. The substantially higher than
projected physical output, fiscal accruals would appear to be still higher. However, local currency
devaluation in the course of project implementation eroded some of these gains.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/1994                   2    Task Team Leader, Consult.
              11/1994                   3    Task Team Leader, Fin. Analyst,
                                             Research Analyst.
              05/1995                   3    Task Team Leader, Fin. Analyst,
                                             Research Assistant.
              10/1995                   4    Task Team Leader, Fin.
                                             Analyst.,Research Assistant.
              06/1996                   2    Task Team Leader, Research
                                             Assistant.
              07/1996                   2    Task Team Leader, Research
                                             Assistant.
              10/1996                   4    Task Team Leader, Technical
                                             Spec., Fin. Analyst, Research
                                             Assistant.
              03/1997                   4    Task Team Leader, Institutional
                                             Spec., Fin. Analyst, Project
                                             Assistant.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1997                   5    Task Team Leader, Sanitary
                                             Spec., Fin. Analyst,
                                             Sociologue, Team Assistant.

 Supervision
              04/1998                   3    Task Team Leader,
                                             Procurement Spec., Social
                                             Antropologist.
              10/1998                   4    Sr. Urban Spec., Sr. Procurement     U               U
                                             Spec., Fin. Mgmt Spec.,
                                             Proocurement Spec.
              03/1999                   2    Sr. Urban Spec., Team Asst.          U               U
              10/1999                   2    Task Team Leader (Guinard)           U               U
                                             Task Team Leader (Locussol)
              04/2001                   2    Task Team Leader, Community          S               S
                                             WSS Spec.,
              09/2001                   1    W&S Spec.                            S               S
              09/2002                   3    Task Team Leader, W&S Spec.,         S               S
                                             Consultant
              04/2003                   2    W&S Spec., Mun. Engr.                S               S
              10/2003                   5    Task Team Leader, Sr. Rural          S               S
                                             Water Spec., Lead Water &Sanit.
                                             Spec., Sr. Comm. Dev. Spec.,
                                             Mun. Engr.
              12/2003                   2    Task Team Leader, Muni. Engr.        S               S
              07/2004                   3    Task Team Leaderm Comm.Dev,          S               S



                                              - 22 -

                                           Spec., Mun. Engr.
               02/2005                 2   Task Team Leader, Mun. Engr.       S    S

 ICR
               06/2005                3     Task Team Leader, Mun.            S    S
                                            Engr., Consult./ICR



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           121.3                         216.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 34.8                           94.5
  Supervision                          146.7                         373.6
  ICR                                   14.9                           31.1
  Total                                317.7                           716




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                                   List of Supporting Documents




l Project Appraisal Document (PAD), November 18, 1997 No. 17101-MAG


l IDA Credit Agreement No. 3025-MAG ­ December 19, 1997
     - Amendments
       November 11, 1998
       July 11, 2001
       September 10, 2001
       March 24, 2003

l Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) ­ 1998


l Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects (FY00-01), November 8, 2001


l Back-to-Office (BTO) Reports, ISRs and Aide-Mémoires ­ 1998-2005


l Rapport « Evaluation des Impacts du Projet PAEPAR » - Gerco ­ June 2005


l Public Expenditure Review ­ Water and Sanitation Sector ­ Government of Madagascar, Ministry of
  Energy and Mines (MEM), Directorate of Water and Sanitation ­ June 2005

l Rapport ­ Assistance a l'Elaboration du Document de Politique de Développement du Secteur Eau et
  Assainissement en milieu Rural (Rapport R1 Bis et R2 ­ Rapports Sur L'Analyse de la Situation
  Actuelle et des Besoins Futurs) ­ BURGEAP ­ Octobre 2003




                                               - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                           REPOBLIKAN'I MADAGASIKARA
                          Tanindrazana-Fahafahana ­Fandrosoana




                      MINISTERE DE L'ENERGIE ET DES MINES




                              RAPPORT D'EXECUTION DU




PROJET PILOTE D'APPROVISIONNEMENT EN EAU POTABLE ET ASSAINISSEMENT EN
                               MILIEU RURAL (PAEPAR)




      Financement :
      ·      IDA : Crédit 3025 MAG
      ·      Etat Malagasy : 0052 00511




                                       Octobre 2005




                                          - 27 -

                                 LISTE DES ACRONYMES




AEP      Adduction d'Eau Potable
AEPAR    Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et
         Assainissement en milieu Rural
AEPG     Approvisionnement en Eau Potable par
         système Gravitaire
ANDEA    Autorité Nationale de l'Eau et de
         l'Assainissement
BAD      Banque Africaine de Développement
BF       Borne Fontaine
CDMT     Cadre de Dépenses à Moyen Terme
CSB      Centre de Santé de Base
CDMT     Comité des Points d'Eau
CARP     Crédit d'Appui à la Réduction de la
         Pauvreté
DEA      Direction de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
DIR      Direction Interrégionale du MEM
IEC      Information - Education- Communication
ONG      Organisation Non Gouvernementale
M E M    Ministère de l'Energie et Mines
P A D    Project Appraisal Document
P P P    Partenariat Public Privé
PD-AEPAR Politique de Développement
         Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et
         Assainissement en milieu Rural
PNAEPA   Programme National à l'Accès
         Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et
         Assainissement
PPOC     Périmètre des Protections des Ouvrages des
         Captages
SID      Stratégie d'Impulsion par la Demande
SOREA    Société d'Organisme Régulateur du
         Service Public de l'Eau et de
         l'Assainissement
WUP      Water Utility Partnership




                                              - 28 -

                                    INTRODUCTION

Le Projet Pilote d'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et d'Assainissement en milieu Rural a été
mis en vigueur le 17 juin 2005. La gestion du projet a été confiée à un bureau de projet dont les
membres sont des fonctionnaires et des employés de courte durée du Ministère de l'Energie et des
Mines qui n'ont pas pu bénéficier de motivations en accord avec leurs responsabilités. Le projet a
été clôturé le 30 juin 2005.

Les coûts totaux du projet est de 43 364,53 millions de ARIARY qui se repartissent comme suit :
     · part de l'IDA ; 37 126,78 millions de ARIARY
     · part du gouvernement ; 6 237,75 millions de ARIARY

                                         I ­ OBJECTIFS
I-1- Objectifs originels

     · Objectifs Généraux

Le Projet pilote d'alimentation en eau potable et d'assainissement en milieu rural vise avant tout à
mettre le Gouvernement, les communautés, et le secteur privé mieux à même d'étendre la
couverture des besoins en eau potable et en assainissement d'une manière durable, pérenne et
rentable.

     · Objectifs Spécifiques

-       Créer des nouveaux projets faisables et réalistes et obtenir des engagements financiers
        fermes dans le secteur avant l'an 2000;

-       Assurer l'entretien des systèmes dans les zones d'action du projet de manière adéquate, et
        rentabiliser environ 70% des systèmes réhabilités ou nouvellement construits deux ans
        après la fin des travaux;

-       Renforcer les capacités des Agences locales (ONGS ou agences gouvernementales locales)
        pour les nouveaux systèmes qui devraient atteindre le nombre de 500 demandes d'ici l'an
        2000;

-       Promouvoir des nouvelles compagnies de forage avant la fin du projet (au moins 4
        nouvelles compagnies).

I-2 changements dans l'objectif

A l'issu des différentes missions de supervision du projet , les indicateurs de performance retenus
      initialement sont revus comme présentés ci -dessous.

i)      Les futurs projets sont conçus de manière réaliste et les engagements de financement
        pour le secteur sont assurés en 2000.
ii)     Les systèmes d'AEPAR sont entretenus de manière adéquate dans la zone du Projet et
        70% des installations nouvelles ou remise en état fonctionnent correctement deux ans
        après la fin du PAEPAR.



                                           - 29 -

iii)     Le nombre de demandes pour de nouveaux systèmes d'AEPAR par les communautés
         auprès des ONGS et des communes atteint 500 à fin 2002.
iv)      Au moins quatre nouvelles entreprises de puits et forage sont enregistrées à la fin du
         Projet.
v)       Le Document de Politique de Développement de l'AEPAR est mise en place. Avant fin
         2003
vi)      Pérennité des Systèmes d'AEP construits par le PAEPAR est assurée
vii)     L'Amélioration des Conditions Sanitaires est constatée

                                      II LES COMPOSANTES

II-1- Les composantes originales

Le projet comporte trois (3) composantes bien distinctes :


Composante 1 : Cadre légal et politique du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement

L'objectif de cette composante est de fournir un cadre politique et juridique favorable au
développement du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement à Madagascar. Elle comporte les sous
composants suivants :

·        Ré formulation de la politique sectorielle, de la stratégie, du plan d'action et proposition de
         programme national.
·        Préparation d'une Loi sur l'Eau
·        Actions de dissémination/communication autour de la politique sectorielle et du cadre
         légal.

Composante 2 : Réorganisation du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement et renforcement de
la capacité

L'objectif de cette composante est d'assurer l'existence d'une organisation répondant au cadre de
la politique sectorielle dans les secteurs publics et privés. Cette composante vise le renforcement de
la capacité institutionnelle dans tout le secteur (urbain et rural).

Elle comporte les sous composants suivants :

·        Appui au Bureau du projet en fournitures d'équipements, en fonctionnements, ainsi que
         des formations et appui organisationnel.
·        Etude de réorganisation du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement afin d'atteindre les
         objectifs de développement
·        Restructuration de la Direction de l'Exploitation de l'Eau.
·        Etude sur la gestion des ressources en eau.
·        Assistance au développement de petites entreprises et promotion du secteur privé.

Composante 3 : Services Eau et Assainissement orientés vers les communautés

Cette composante comporte les deux grandes sous composantes suivantes :

         3A-Evaluation des besoins des communautés et développement de la stratégie d'IEC



                                             - 30 -

        Ce sous composant permettra au Gouvernement de mener des études pour avoir une meilleure
        connaissance des spécificités du secteur en vue de son développement et comporte les activités
        suivantes :

        ·       Etudes d'impact sur l'environnement et la santé, évaluations participatives par les
                bénéficiaires et évaluation de la demande.
        ·       Etude sur les mécanismes de financement et la contribution communautaire
        ·       Etude pour le développement et la dissémination d'outils de mobilisation communautaire et
                d'éducation à l'hygiène et de mise en oeuvre de systèmes de promotion de la demande
                communautaire.
        ·       Choix des techniques d'alimentation en eau potable et d'assainissement en milieu rural à
                l'hygiène.
        ·       Campagnes d'IEC.

        Des campagnes seront effectuées en priorité dans les zones d'actions du projet, puis par la suite au
        niveau national, en milieu rural et urbain, sur la base des outils et méthodes développés, et en
        collaboration étroite avec l'UNICEF.

                3B-Développement des services d'eau et d'assainissement

        La réalisation des systèmes se fait à la demande des villages qui se manifestent par la création des
        CPE. Les actions d'accompagnement incluent la mobilisation communautaire et l'éducation à
        l'hygiène et seront menées individuellement par des ONGs (FIKRIFAMA, CARITAS,
        TARATRA).

        Ce sous composants comporte deux volets :
            ·   Volet 180 AEPG dont 140 à réaliser par FIKRIFAMA et 40 par CARITAS
            ·   Volet 500 Forages munis de pompes à motricités humaines

        II-2 Les changements dans les composantes

        Des activités complémentaires ont été ajoutées dans les trois composantes notamment la
        composante 3, où le nombre de réalisation a été augmenté comme suit :
            ·   Volet AEPG : réalisation de 320 AEPG dont 232 par FIKRIFAMA et 88 par CARITAS
            ·   Volet Forage : réalisation de 625 forages munis de pompe à motricité humaine

                                             III ­ LES RESULTATS
        Suite aux différentes missions de supervisions après amendements d l'accord de crédit les résultats
du projet sont :

        Composante1 : CADRE LEGAL ET REGLEMENTTAIRE DU SECTEUR DE L'EAU ET
        ASSAINISSEMENT
        Le secteur de l'eau potable et de l'assainissement dispose maintenant de textes réglementaires à
        savoir :
        ·       Le Code de l'eau et ses 13 décrets d'application
        ·       Le projet de statuts de la société de patrimoine
        ·       Le modèle de contrat type d'affermage
        ·       Le document de Programme National d'Accès à l'Eau Potable et à l'Assainissement
        ·       Le document relatif à l'étude tarifaire de l'eau en milieu urbain




                                                    - 31 -

Composante2      :   REORGANISATION              DU     SECTEUR      DE     L'EAU         ET      DE
L'ASSAINISSEMENT ET RENFORCEMENT DE LA CAPACITE

Plusieurs activités ont été faites :
·      Organisation de réunions de concertation avec les parties prenantes dans les 6 chefs lieux
       de provinces (maires, chefs de région, ONGs, entreprise, bureau d'étude, Administration,
       Président Délégation Spécial)
·      Organisation d'un atelier national sur la reforme du secteur de l'eau potable et de
       l'assainissement en milieu urbain en collaboration avec le WUP
·      Etude et évaluation d'impact du PAEPAR sur 100 AEPG + 100 forages équipé de pompe
       à motricité humaine
·      Identification des capacités existantes à Madagascar en matière d'AEP
·      Audit financier exercices 1998 à 2004 et audit de clôture 2005
·      Renforcement des capacités décentralisées et déconcentrées
·      Rédaction du Manuel de procédures pour les interventions dans le secteur de l'eau et de
       l'assainissement
·      Inventaire national des points d'eau et des installations d'évacuation des excréta
·      Mise en place de la base de données du secteur eau et assainissement
·      Réalisation d'une étude pour le développement de la pratique du Lavage des mains avec du
       savon, avec mise en place d'une coordination nationale pour l'initiative de Partenariat
       Public
·      Mise en place du site Web et intranet du secteur eau et assainissement et du ministère
·      Actualisation de l'étude d'AEP de Nosy Be, Pôle Intégré de Croissance
·      Formation des cadres du Ministère au niveau central et dans les directions provinciales sur
       la passation des marchés de la Banque mondiale et sur le PCG 2005.
·      Responsabilisation effective des communes et des communautés de base
·      Exécution du budget de programme 2005 et intégration du secteur dans le système CARP

Composante3      :  SERVICE         D'EAU    ET     D'ASSAINISSEMENT          GERES     PAR     LES
COMMUNAUTE -DEVELOPPEMENT DES SERVICES D'EAU ET D'ASSAINISSEMENT

        3A-Evaluation des besoins des communautés et développement de la stratégie d'IEC

·      Pour le volet « AEPG » l'approche IEC a été menée par les ONGs FIKRIFAMA et
       CARITAS et est basée sur l'implication des populations bénéficiaires qui a exprimé leur
       besoin en eau, depuis l'identification des sources jusqu'à l'entretien, la maintenance et la
       gestion des systèmes mis en place.
·      Pour le volet Forages munis de pompes à motricité humaine , l'approche IEC a été menée
       par l'ONG TARATRA et est basée sur les principes de la SID (Stratégie d'Impulsion
       par la Demande), incluant la formation de deux réparateurs villageois par localité, pour la
       maintenance, l'entretien et la réparation des pompes.


        3B-Développement des services d'eau et d'assainissement

·      Volet AEPG
           Initialement, il a été prévu la réalisation de 180 AEPG mais à la date de clôture 320
           AEPG ont été réalisés, se répartissant dans 15 régions de 195 communes. Ces 320


                                            - 32 -

                 systèmes sont gérées par la communauté et desservent 251 403 habitants à travers
                 2540 bornes fontaines disposant de 2540 comités de point d'eau.

    ·        Volet forage équipé de pompe à motricité humaine
                 Initialement, il a été prévu la réalisation de 500 forages équipés de pompes à motricité
                 humaine mais à la date de clôture 627 forages équipés ont été réalisés, se répartissant
                 dans 02 régions de 35 communes, gérés par 627 CPE et desservant 146 091 habitants.

          En conclusion , iIl a été prévu au départ que le projet va desservir 280 000 habitants ( cf
          PAD) mais en réalité, à partir des amendements , de juin 1998 à juin 2005, le PAEPAR a pu
          desservir 397 494 habitants (142%) soit 3, 97 % de la population rurale .

             3D- Développement du PPP dans la réalisation et la gestion des systèmes d'AEPA

         Dans le souci de la pérennisation des acquis, le projet a initié la pratique du PPP dans la
         réalisation et la gestion des systèmes d'AEPA, en utilisant le reliquat de budget pour la
         fourniture de tuyauterie,     accessoires et compteurs à 24 communes pilotes en vue de la
         passation d'un contrat d'affermage entre la commune et un privé.



                                       III- IMPACT DU PROJET

III-1 Impact positifs

    a) Amélioration des conditions de vie et de santé des bénéficiaires

    L'étude d'impact du projet a été confié à un cabinet qui est intervenu dans 200 localités
    échantillons dont 100 AEPG et 100 forages munis de pompes à motricités humaines réparties dans
    tout Madagascar.
   Les résultats de cette étude sont les suivants :
    ·        Diminution des maladies liées à l'eau dont choléra 100%, bilharziose 43% et diarrhée 8%.
    ·        Réduction du temps moyen pour chercher de l'eau à 6 fois moins de temps par rapport à
    la situation avant la mise en place du projet
    ·        Proximité du point d'eau par rapport au village à 12 fois moins loin
    ·        Augmentation de 7% du budget du ménage affecté à l'alimentation
    ·        Augmentation de 84% de la consommation d'eau potable
    ·        Satisfaction sur la mise en place du système d'AEP de 97%

    b) Amélioration du cadre institutionnel

Le secteur dispose des tous les outils nécessaires pour le développement du secteur, à savoir :
    ·        la loi sur l'eau et ses décrets d'application
    ·        le Programme National d'Accès à l'Eau Potable et l'Assainissement
    ·        Le manuel de procédure pour la mise en place des projets eau et assainissement
    ·        L'intégration du secteur eau et assainissement dans le CARP 2
    ·        Le principe de paiement du service relatif à la fourniture de l'eau potable par la
    population rurale par collecte de cotisation
    ·        L'acceptation et l'application de la contribution des bénéficiaires depuis l'identification et



                                                  - 33 -

la réalisation du projet et la gestion communautaire
         du système mis en place.
·        La disponibilité d'une équipe pour la gestion d'un projet eau et assainissement
·        L'intégration des femmes dans le processus du développement du secteur.
·        Le développement des capacités des ONGs, des entreprises, des communautés, des
réparateurs villageois, et la mise en place du réseau de
         revendeurs de pièces détachées.
·        La déconcentration effective des responsabilités comme le choix des localités confié aux
DIRMEM à partir de la deuxième année du projet.
·        Le renforcement des capacités des directions centrales et déconcentrées tant sur le plan
humain (formation) que matériel.

 c) Développement du PPP

 Parmi les 24 communes pilotes pour la promotion du PPP, il a été constaté que :
·        18 communes ont pu identifier des Fermiers
·        04 systèmes d'AEPA sont gérés par des fermiers privés
·        06 systèmes sont en cours de constructions par des fermiers privés.

 d) Amélioration de la capacité de gestion de projet

·        La passation d'un marché pluriannuel a été entreprise
·        La gestion du financement a été souple et a permis de réaliser les interventions avec
efficacité. Il a été aussi possible d'aller au-delà des
         objectifs fixés initialement
·        L'existence du bureau de projet PAEPAR a permis de travailler efficacement sans
         lourdeur administrative, et dans des conditions normales de vie (comme par exemple de ne
         pas être obligé d'aller sur le terrain avec les 1,5 US$ par jour qui est le taux d'indemnité
         appliqué officiellement pour les cadres de l'Administration).
·        la disponibilité de fonds de contrepartie était satisfaisante.


 e) Réplication des aspects de la durabilité quant à la participation des bénéficiaires

     Les orientations et spécifications pour les actions futures sont tirées des expériences réussies
     du projet et sont validées dans le manuel de procédures qui servira de base pour tous les
     intervenants du secteur. Cela va permettre de répliquer les approches et méthodes qui ont
     réussi pour tous les aspects pris en compte dans le dit projet.

III-2 Impact négatifs :

a) gestion communautaire

·        Le système de gestion communautaire par un CPE bénévole (absence d'un système de
         motivation) est limité car le recouvrement des coûts n'a jamais été à 100 %. Les
         gestionnaires bénévoles perdent leurs capacités, et parfois disparaissent car il n'y a pas
         de possibilité de vivre avec l'activité de réparation de pompes ou de bornes fontaines
         effectuée gratuitement



                                               - 34 -

    ·        Le projet a pu intéresser et mobiliser les communautés pour s'intégrer dans les actions
             pour le développement du secteur ; il y a ainsi plusieurs demandes et attentes. Il y a donc
             un risque de pertes de confiance envers les responsables du dit secteur et pertes également
             de leurs crédibilités puisqu'il va être difficile de répondre correctement aux dites attentes.

   b) suivi et contrôle pendant et après projet
    ·        Aucun système de suivi n'a été mis en place
    ·        Le personnel qualifié dans le secteur est insuffisant en quantité et qualité au niveau
    central et déconcentré
    ·        la délégation de crédits aux collectivités décentralisées n'a pu être faite
    ·        la base de données est en place pour assurer le suivi, mais le système ne serait pas efficace
    si la gestion reste sous la responsabilité de l'
             administration seule.

    c) développement du PPP et pérennité des systèmes mis en place
    ·        La gestion déléguée par affermage n'est pas efficace si le tarif appliqué ne tient pas compte
             de la volonté et de la capacité de payer, de la nécessité d'assurer l'équilibre d'exploitation,
             de dégager des fonds suffisants pour les branchements sociaux et les renouvellements et
             l'extension du système.

       IV- EVALUATION FINANCIERE ET ECONOMIQUE DE LA COMPOSANTE 3

    IV-1) Volet 500 forages équipés de pompes à motricité humaine

    Le coût total du volet est de 10 409 917 463 Ar. Le coût de revient par habitant est de 71 265,39
    Ar soit 35,23 US$/habitant. Le coût par pompe installée est de 16 602 739,17 Ar soit 8 210,43
    US$. (1 US$ = 2022,90 AR, taux du 30/06/05).

    IV-2) Volet AEPG

    Le coût total du volet s'élève a 9 564 580 441 Ar. Le coût de revient par habitant est de 38
    044,81 Ar soit 18,81US$/habitant. Le coût par borne fontaine installée est de 3 765 582,85 Ar soit
    1 862,16 US$ (1 US$ = 2022,90 AR, taux du 30/06/05).


                    V ­ SITUATION FINANCIERE DU PROJET EN DATE DU 30/06/05

    La situation financière du projet est donnée dans le tableau suivant :


Monnaie    Crédit alloué        Crédit engagé    Crédit             Reliquat   Taux                  Taux de
                                                 décaissé                      d'engagement          décaissement

DT S       12 600000            12 120 000       9 830 000          480 000    96%                   78%


US$        18 343 246           17 659 200       14 351 800         700 800      96%                 78%




                                                  - 35 -

                           VI - Performance de la Banque Mondiale et du Prestataire

       V-1 ) Performance de la Banque

       a) points forts
             · Elle était satisfaisante car il y a eu de très bonne communication, bon dialogue, esprit de
             partenariat franc...
             · Les missions de supervisons de 2 fois par ans ont permis d'avoir une appréciation correcte
             de la situation.

       Les audits financiers et les audits techniques ont améliorés la performance du projet.


       a) points faibles :
             · Le retard dans les décaissements et les réapprovisionnements des comptes
             · Le retard dans l'enregistrement des contrats dans le système.

      V-2 Performance du prestataire

      a)points forts :
             · Compétences, dialogues, bonne communication,
             · esprit de partenariat et compréhension mutuelle

       b) points faibles :
             · Quelques prestataires ont eu des problèmes d'insuffisance de moyens et problèmes
             d'organisation d'où quelquefois des retards dans les délais d'exécution

                                           VI-. LECONS A PRENDRE


VI-1 Leçons positives

             · Dans la conception du projet il a été fait référence aux expériences pratiques du même
               type, à savoir les projets d'AEPG de FIKRIFMA et de CARITAS ainsi que le projet 150
               FORAGES de l'UNICEF. Il faut toujours s'appuyer sur les résultats positifs et les
               compétences existantes reconnues.
             · La motivation du personnel doit être prise en compte de façon objective.

             · Le système de contrats sur plusieurs années a permis de mettre en pratique une véritable
               programmation réaliste avec vision à long terme des objectifs à atteindre et les activités à
               entreprendre.

             · La décentralisation et de la déconcentration, avec une répartition bien définie des rôles et
               attributions et responsabilités entre les parties prenantes doivent être effectivement
               appliquée pour le développement du secteur.




                                                     - 36 -

VI-2 Leçons négatives

            · La politique nationale de décentralisation et la déconcentration est très lente à se mettre en
              oeuvre et les actions entreprises dans le secteur eau et assainissement sont ainsi freinées.
            · L'absence d'une structure de suivi ­évaluation est un risque à prendre en compte sur la
              pérennité des systèmes mis en place
            · Il semble indispensable d'avoir un « programme-relai » pour bien préparer l'administration
              à s'imprégner convenablement des principes et stratégie de l'approche programme, avant
              de se lancer dans le changement brusque tel qu'il est prévu actuellement car un arrêt
              prolongé de continuité diminue la motivation des populations qui ont déjà exprimé leur
              besoins en AEP.
            · Il semble nécessaire d'avoir une stratégie d'organisation rationnelle pour utiliser
              efficacement la capacité existante.




                                                  - 37 -

- 38 -

                                                           44°                                                          46°                                                            48°                                                                         50°




                                                                        MADAGASCAR
                        RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
             12°                                PILOT PROJECT (PAEPAR)                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANTSIRANANA


                                                                           RURAL WATER SUPPLY GRAVITY SYSTEMS

                                                                           HAND PUMP PROGRAM AREA                                                                                                                        DIANA
                                                                           PAVED ROADS

                                                                           ALL-WEATHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ambilobe                             Iharana
                                                                           RAILROADS                                                                                                                                      Mahavavy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vohimarina
                                                                           RIVERS

                                                                           SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                               Ambanja

                                                                           REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                A N T S I R A N A N A
              14°                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                         14°

                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                   SAVA                    Sambava
                                                                           REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bealanana
                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                        Analalava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Andapa
                                                                                                                                                                         Antsohihy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Antalaha

                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOFIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Befandriana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maroantsetra
                                                                                                                                                                                            Sofia

                                                                                                            MAHAJANGA                                                          Boriziny
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mandritsara
                                                                                                                                                M A H A J A N G AAnjombony
              16°                                                                                                               Mitsinjo         Marovoay                      Mampikony                                                                                                              16°

                                                                                                Soalala                                                                              Bemarivo
                                                                                                                                                                      Mahajamba                                                                            Mananara
                                                                                                                              BOENY             Ambato
                                                                                                                                                 Boeni

                                                                                 Besalampy                                                                                                                                        ANALANJIROFO

                                                                                                                                                        Boinakely       Tsaratanana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Soanierana-
                                                                                                                                                                                          Andilamena                                Ivongo                   Ambodifotatra
                                                                                                                                                     Maevatanana

                    Mozambique                                                                                                                                                               Vohitraivo
                                                                                      MELAKY                    Kandreho                                   Betsiboka                                                    Vavatenina
                                                                                                                                                                         Andriamena
                                                                                 Manambaho                                          BETSIBOKA                                                                                              Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                                                                                                                                Amparafaravola             Lake
                                                                                                     Ambatomainty                                                                                         Alaotra

                       Channel                                                 Morafenobe                                                                                                                 Ambatondrazaka

                                                                                                                                                                                              Vohidiala
             18°                                   Maintirano                               Bemahatazana                                                                                     ALAOTRA                                                                                                  18°
                                                                                                                                              Ankazobe
                                                                                                                Mahavavy                                                                   MANGORO
                                                                                                                              Fenoarivo be            ANALAMANGA                                                                          TOAMASINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fanandrana
                                                                                                                     BONGOLAVA                                       Anjozorobe
                                                                                                                                                                                             TOAMASINA
                                                                             Antsalova                                        A N TA N A N A R I V O
                                                                                                                Tsiroanomandidy                       ANTANANARIVO
                                                                                                                                           Miarinarivo                                           Perinet
                                                                                                                                                                               Manja-                                             Ampasimanolotra

                                                                                  Manambolo                                                         ITASY                     kandriana     Moramanga          ATSINANANA
                                                                                                                                                                               Andramasin

                                                                                                                                             Faratsiho                                  Anosibe
                                                                                               Miandrivazo                                                                                                              Vatomandry
                                                                                 Belo                                                                                                                              Canal
                                                                                 Tsiribihina                                     Mandoto                                                                   Antanambao-Manampotsy
                                                                                                                                                                    Antanifotsy
                                                                                  Tsiribihina                                  VAKINANKARATRA
                                                                                                                                                                                            Mangoro
                                                                                                                                                      Antsirabe
              20°                                                                         MENABE                                                                                                                 Mahanoro                                                                            20°


                                                          Morondava                                                                                                                       Marolambo
                                                                                      Mahabo                                                              Fandriana
                                                                              Morondava        Malaimbandy              AMORON' MANIA
                                                                                                                        Ambatofinandrahana                 Ambositra

                                                                                                                                                    Manandriana              VATOVAVY                     Nosy Varika                              I N D I A N
                                                                                                                                                                           FITOVINANI
                                                                                                                                                                                 Vohilava
                                                                                                                                          Ambohimahasoa                                        Pangalanes
                                                                                                                            Ikalamavony       Alakamisin'           Vohiparara

                                                                           Manja                                                             Ambohimaha                                           Mananjary
                                                                                                                               FIANARANTSOA                         Ifanadiana                                                                       O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                                     Irondro
                                                                                             Beroroha           HAUTE MATSIATRA

                                    Morombe                                                                                  F I A N A R A N T S O A
                                                                       Mangoky
                                                                                                                                                    Ambalavao

              22°                                            T O L I A R A                                IHOROMBE                      Ankarmena                     Ikongo                                                                                                                         22°

                                                                                  Ankazoabo                                                                                            Manakara
                                                                                      atm.
                                                                                                                  Ihosy
                                                                                                                                               Ivohibe                              Vohipeno

                                                              ATSIMO
                                                          ANDREFANA
                                                                                                                                                            Vondrozo
                                                                           Sakaraha                                                                                            Farafangana
                                                                                                                                       Iakora

                                        TOLIARA                                                                                                      ATSIMO
                                                                Fiherechana                                  Betroka
                                                                                     Benenitra                                                  ATSINANANA
                                                                                                                                                                            Vangaindrano
                                                                                                                                                 Midongy-du-Sud
                                                                           Betioky Onilahy


                                                                                                              ANOSY                                Befotaka                                                                                                        50°

              24°                                                                                                                                                                                                   24°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TANZANIA
                                                                                                           Berakete                                                                                                                                                       45°               50°

                                                                                                    Bekily                                                                                                                                                             COMOROS             Antsiranana
                                                                                                                                                            Manantenina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Fr)

                                                                         Ampanihy                                     Mandrave                                                                                                                                                                        15°
                                                                                                 ANDROY                                                                                                                            15°                              Mahajanga

                                                                                                                        Amboasary-
                                                                                                                               Sud                                                                                                   MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Toamasina
                                                                                    Beloha                                                       Tolagnaro                                                                                                 Channel                   AR

                                                                                                                        Ambovombe                                                                                                                                                     ANTANANARIVO

                                                                                             Tsihombe                         Androy                                                                                               20°



NOVEMBER
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                     ozambique                   ADAGASCFianarantsoa     20°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                           M
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                0               50          100          150             200                                                Toliara                                   IBRD

              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                            KILOMETERS
              judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                                                           34318
        2005                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25°                                                                25°
              acceptance of such boundaries.               44°                                                          46°                                                            48°                                                       40°                      45°               50°

