Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3025 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 19, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3025 MAG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association  has received a letter dated November 7, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
and strengthen its water and sanitation sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
pursuant to the Cooperation Framework Program for the 1996-2000 period 
agreed upon between the Borrower and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the 
Borrower intends to contract from UNICEF a grant (the UNICEF Grant) in an amount 
equivalent to $760,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNICEF Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and UNICEF; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree asas follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, by 
notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“CARITAS MADAGASCAR” means Organe Exécutif de la Commission Episcopale 
d’Action Sociale, Caritative et de Développement, an NGO engaged in development 
activities in Madagascar; 
(b)
"DEA" means Direction de l’Exploitation de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement, 
the Water and Sanitation Directorate of MEM; 
(c)
“Executing Agency” means an executing agency referred to in paragraph 5 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“FIKRIFAMA” means Fifananpiana Kristiana Ho An’ny Fampandrosoana Eto 
Madagasikara, a Christian Rural Development and Water Resources Program, an NGO 
engaged in development activities in Madagascar; 
(e)
"Franc Malagasy" or "FMG" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(f)
“IEC” means information, education and communication; 
Page  3
(g)
"Implementation Manual" means the implementation manual referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Implementation Manual;
(h)
“MEM” means Ministère de l’Energie et des Mines, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Energy and Mining; 
(i)
“NGO” means non-governmental organization; 
(j)
"Project Account" means the project account referred to in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the Project Management Unit 
established by the Borrower pursuant to Ministerial Decision No. 189/MEM, dated August 
19, 1997, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of agreement, dated 
September 23, 1997, signed by the Association, and countersigned on behalf of the 
Borrower on October 22, 1997; 
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
Page  4
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 2008 and ending November 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEM with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  (a)  Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a project account, in Francs Malagasy, to 
be operated and maintained by PMU, into which it shall deposit from time to time its 
local counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $50,000 into 
the Project Account; and 
(ii)
have the Project Account replenished on a monthly basis, or 
whenever the balance thereof equals not more than one third 
of the amount of the initial deposit, whichever occurs 
first. 
(c)
Funds deposited in the Project Account shall be applied solely for the 
purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the 
Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b)
the UNICEF Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources; 
(c)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right 
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the UNICEF 
Grant 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the UNICEF Grant 
Agreement;
 (ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is 
not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of Associationthe Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Implementation Manual has been duly approved by the Association, and 
adopted by the Borrower; 
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and 
accounting system for the Project, and recruited auditors, pursuant to Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to audit the accounts of the Project in accordance with 
Article IV of this Agreement; and 
(c)
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the initial amount of 
$50,000 equivalent deposited therein. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV  of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen  years after the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
22489
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Tantely Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  8
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs  
incurred under the Project on account of (i) local contractual staff salaries, (ii) 
travel costs and allowances, (iii) maintenance of vehicles and equipment, (iv) banking 
charges, and (v) office rent, supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
 in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
for expenditures under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, in respect of any of the Executing Agencies, unless the Borrower has signed 
an agreement with such Executing Agency in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and consultants' 
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, consultants' 
services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, training and 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of the Borrower, the 
communities and the private sector to provide water supply and sanitation services on 
a sustainable and cost-effective basis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Policy and Legal Framework for Water and Sanitation Sector 
1.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist in the reformulation of water 
and sanitation sector policy and implementation arrangements, including redefinition 
of the respective roles of the community, the public and private partners in the 
sustainable delivery of water supply and sanitation services, and review of 
institutional, financial, operations and maintenance, and regulatory arrangements, 
having regard to broad technical considerations, social, IEC and environmental and 
health aspects and other cross-sectoral interactions. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist in the preparation of revised 
water legislation and supporting regulations. 
3.
Organization of workshops, meetings, roundtables and other activities to promote 
enforcement of water sector policy and legislation.
Part B:
Water and Sanitation Sector Reorganization and Capacity Building 
Page  9
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and equipment and materials, to assist 
in the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU), and the design and 
establishment of a financial  management and accounting system. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out a study on the 
reorganization of the water and sanitation sector, taking into account the ongoing 
process of decentralization, and the Borrower’s revised sector policy. 
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out a study on the 
reorganization of DEA, and to provide training and other support measures to 
facilitate implementation of the findings of the study.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out a water resources 
management study. 
5.
Provision of technical advisory services to support the development of the 
private sector and promote its capacity to provide water and sanitation services.
Part C:
Studies and Development of IEC Strategies 
1.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out environmental and health 
beneficiary and demand assessments. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out a study on possible 
technology choices for water and sanitation systems with a view to eliciting proposals 
for technology solutions for water and sanitation systems designs. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services for the development and dissemination 
of IEC tools with a view to preparation of a national strategy and methodology for IEC 
actions. 
4.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out a study to develop 
financing mechanisms for water and sanitation services. 
5.
Implementation of IEC campaigns, based on methodology developed under Part C.3 
of the Project.
Part D:
Construction of Water Supply and Sanitation Installations and 
Hygiene Education 
1.
Construction of 500 village boreholes. 
2.
Construction of 40 gravity pipes systems. 
3.
Construction of 140 gravity pipes systems.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Page  10
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Construction materials, goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,275,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Construction materials, goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent,  may be procured through 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Page  11
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services of Executing Agencies to carry out IEC campaigns, and for design and 
supervision of civil works, and delegated civil works contract management under Part D 
of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,500,000 equivalent may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for specialized technical studies shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, financial auditors and Executing Agencies, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and financial 
auditors, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be 
responsible, under the overall guidance and oversight of MEM, for the supervision and 
coordination of the day-to-day management of the Project, including development of a 
financial management and accounting system, coordination of procurement and 
disbursement activities, and coordination of annual and quarterly progress reports, 
annual work plans and budgets, and audits.
(b)
PMU shall consist of a Project Manager, a Deputy Project Manager, four 
technical managers and a chief accountant, as well as the requisite number of support 
staff.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that all high level positions of PMU, including 
those of the Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager, four technical managers and 
chief accountant, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate officials, having 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference which shall have been communicated 
to, and deemed acceptable by, the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
on the basis of the environmental impact analysis of the Project, prepare 
an environmental mitigation checklist, acceptable to the Association, giving details 
of measures needed to address, prevent or mitigate any adverse environmental impact of 
investments under the Project;
(b)
prepare and submit to the Association an implementation manual for the 
Project, including the environmental mitigation checklist referred to in subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph, and giving details of all procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements agreed upon with the Association for purposes of 
implementation and monitoring of the Project; and 
(c)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive 
any provision thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30 of each year, beginning 
September 30, 1998, undertake, in conjunction with the Association and the Executing 
Agencies, a joint annual review of the Project, during which they shall exchange views 
generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance 
by the Borrower and the executing agencies of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement, or arising thereunder, and, in particular:
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower and the Executing 
Agencies, having regard to indicators referred to in 
paragraphs 2 (a) and 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
(ii) 
a review of beneficiary assessments undertaken under the 
Project; and
(iii)
a review of the annual and quarterly progress reports for 
the current fiscal year, and the annual work plans and 
budget 
for the forthcoming fiscal year.
(c)
Not later than one month prior to each annual review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and 
giving details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review.
Page  13
(d)
Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or cause the Executing Agencies to take, any corrective 
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement, or cause the Executing Agencies to implement, such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, submit to 
the Association, for review and approval, a proposed annual work program and budget 
for such fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations and 
disbursement estimates, proposed procurement activities, and such other particulars as 
the Association may require.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review, 
(i) 
not later than two months after the end of each fiscal year 
or one month after the end of each quarter, as the case may 
be, annual and quarterly progress reports on the status of 
the 
Project; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of individual contracts 
under the Project.
5.
For the purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall sign agreements 
with the respective executing agencies as follows:
(a)
in the case of Part D.1 of the Project, an agreement with UNICEF, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, for the execution of Part D.1 of 
the Project;
(b) 
in the case of Part D.2 of the Project, an agreement with CARITAS 
MADAGASCAR, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, for the execution 
of Part D.2 of the Project; and
(c) 
in the case of Part D.3 of the Project, an agreement with FIKRIFAMA, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, for the execution of Part D.3 of 
the Project.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  14
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  15
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation  in inacc accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
