Document of
The World Bank  PU,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3501-ZA
ZAMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 10, 1981
Eastern African Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =   Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.25                =   K 1.00
US$1.00                -   K 0.80
US$1,000               =   K 800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 centimeter (cm)      =   0.39 inches
1 meter (m)            =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) 2     =   0.62 miles
1 square meter (m )    =   10.76 sq2 ft.
1 hectare (ha)         =   10,000 m   =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)        =   2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =   1,000 kg = 2,204 lb
1 liter (1)                0.26 U.S. gallon = 2.1 pints
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFC     -  Agricultural Finance Company
CFC     -  Cattle Finance Company
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
CSB     -  Cold Storage Board
DCM     -  Department of Cooperatives and Marketing
DOA     -  Department of Agriculture
DPB     - Dairy Produce Board
DVSTC   -  Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control
DWA     -  Department of Water Affairs
FI      -  Farm Institute
FTC     -  Farmer Training Center
GRZ     -  Government o7f the Republic of Zambia
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IERR    -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
LINTCO  -  Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MCC     - Member of Central Committee
NAMB    -  National Agricultural Marketing Board
NRDC    -  Natural Resources Development College
PAO     -  Provincial Agricultural Officer
PCU     -  Provincial Cooperative Unions
PCW     -  Provincial Commissioner of Works
PDC     -  Provincial Development Committee
PEMO    -  Provincial Extension Management Officer
PFMO    -  Provincial Farm Management Officer
PPS     -  Provincial Permanent Secretary
RDC     -  Rural Development Corporation
SEC     -  Supervisory and Evaluation Committee
SMS     -  Subject Matter Specialist
SPCMU   -  Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union
VEW     -  Village Extension Worker
ZADB    -  Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROU4D
A.   The Project .............................                             1
B.   Economic Setting ..........*. .. . .  ..................     ......... .  1
C.   Agricultural Performance  ...........................                2
D.   Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy ...                 3
E.   Agricultural Services  .....  ........... ........ ...... .          4
F.   Agricultural Pricing Policy ........................                 9
G.    Previous Bank Group Assistance    .....................            10
II.   EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development  ....*.              11
B.    Provincial and District Administrations ...o.........              13
C.    Zambia Agricultural Development Bank ..................            13
D.    Southern Province Co-operative Marketing Union ....,-    15
III.    THE PROJECT AREA
A.    Physical o.o ....... ..................o.....o.................    16
B.    Infrastructure and Social Services ...o  .......... o              16
C.   The Farming Communtty  o .......               ..............o      17
D.   Agricultural Services .......                          ...          20
IV.    THE PROJECT
Ao   General Description ......           ................oo.oo.oo.      23
B.    Detailed Features .... .o.       . ...... ....... ....... .        25
C.  Project Costs ........... .. ..  32
D.    Financing ........      ...      .       ..................        33
E.   Procurement  .o ... . ..   ..... o.o..o. .......... o ..... .       34
Fo   Disbursements ..o  ........... ............ .            .... ..    35
G.   Accounts and Audit .o........................                       36
H.   Environmental Impact ...o ................ ... . ......             36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
J. Frankel, P. Duane, D.H. van der Sluijs, and Y. Doka (Bank), A. Flanagan
and A. Ghosh (Consultants), which visited Zambia in November 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                                         Page No.
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....             ........................      37
A.    Project Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring
and Reporting  ......        ............................          37
B.    Project Implementation  .....          ........................       38
C.    Staffing         ........................... .......    40
D.    Evaluation ..........................................                 41
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..........................                   41
A.    Technical Packages and Yields ......................                  41
B.    Cropping Patterns .....                        ....................    44
C.    Production Increases  .....            ..........................    45
D.    Markets           ............................................        46
E.    Producer Prices              .....................................    47
VII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................              ...................    48
A.    Effects on Farmers          ..................................        48
B.    Financial Effects on SPCMU ...........         ..     .............   49
C.   Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow                  .     .       50
D.    Foreign Exchange Implications  ....             ..................    51
VIII.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .............................i ..........    51
IX.    AGREEMENTS REACHED'AND RECOMMENDATIONS               ..................     53



- iii -
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Charts and Tables
Chart C-1     Schedule of Implementation
Chart C-2     Organizations Involved in Project Implementation
Table T-1     Marketed Agricultural Production in Zambia
Table T-2     Marketed Volume of Major Crops in Southern Province
Table T-3     Land Categories and 1980 Population by District
Table T-4     Summary of Project Costs
Table T-5     Project Costs:  Agricultural Extension and Training
Table T-6     Project Costs:  Livestock Development (Summary)
Table T-7     Project Costs:  Input Supply and Storage
Table T-8     Project Costs:  Produce Storage
Table T-9     Project Costs:  Agricultural Credit
Table T-10    Project Costs:  Project Administration
Table T-11    Transfer of Operating Costs to Recurrent Budget
Table T-12    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table T-13    Cropping Patterns
Table T-14    Agricultural Practices and Yields Without Project
Table T-15    Agricultural Practices and Yields With Project
Table T-16    Incremental Crop Production
Table T-17    Southern Province Livestock Population and Offtake Rate
Table T-18    Cash Flow Projection of Typical Smallholder Livestock Operation
Table T-19    Value of Incremental Livestock Production
Table T-20    Effects on Farm Costs
Table T-21    Effects on: Farm Incomes
Table T-22    Government Cash Flow
Table T-23    Foreign Exchange Flows
Table T-24    Economic Analysis
2.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports on Agriculture in Zambia
B.   Selected Reports on the Project, and
C.   Working Papers on the following:
1.   Agricultural Production and Development
2.   Agricultural Extension and Training
3.   Livestock Development
4.   Input Supply and Storage
5.   Produce Storage
6.   Agricultural Credit
7.   Agricultural Prices
8.   Restitution Formula
MAPS
Map IBRD 15604 - Project Area
Map IBRD 15605 - Contours and Spot Elevation
Map IBRD 15606 - Existing and Proposed Agricultural Station and Camps
(with attachment)






I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project
1.01      The Southern Province Agricultural Development Project (the Project)
is the second in what Government intends will be a series of Provincial-scale
developments to assist mainly smallholder agriculture. The first in the
series is the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project which was
approved by the BankIs Board on May 21, 1981. The Project was identified
by a Bank Identification Mission, at the request of GRZ, which visited Zambia
in September 1978 to identify, on a preliminary basis, about five projects for
possible Bank financing in the period 1980-83. A mission from the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme visited Zambia in June 1979 to assist the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) to further identify and begin
preparing a project proposal. Following review of that mission's project
identification report 1/ by the central and provincial government, a second
mission visited Zambia in January/February 1980, to assist Government in
completing its proposals. The Project Preparation Report was completed in
July 1980 2/, and the Project was appraised in November of that year.
B. Economic Setting
1.92      Zambia is a land-locked country with a surface area of about 750,000
km . The population in 1980 was estimated at 5.7 million, growing at an annual
rate of about 3%. Zambia is one of the most urbanized countries in Africa,
with about 43% of the population living in cities and towns, predominantly
along the line-of-rail which links the Copperbelt with Livingstone, via Lusaka.
The urban population has been growing over the past decade at an annual rate
of2over 6%. The overall rural population density is low, only 4.3 persons per
km . However, the quality of the soils is uneven, and the rural population
density is substantially higher in the Southern, Central and Eastern Provinces,
where the better agricultural soils are found. There are no areas where
population pressure on land is a serious problem.
1.03      Zambia-s GNP in 1980 (at current prices) is estimated at K 2,805
million (US$3.2 billion), equivalent to K 494 (US$556) on a per capita basis
(all figures based on World Bank Atlas methodology). Between 1965 and 1976,
real GNP increased at an average annual rate of about 3.1%. Since 1976, the
economy has been in a protracted economic depression as a result of a 40%
decline in copper prices and two successive years of poor rainfall in 1979 and
1980. Real GNP declined by 9% between 1976 and 1980, and on a per capital
basis is below its level at independence. GRZ revenues and export earnings
have fallen correspondingly, and this in turn has resulted in serious balance
of payments problems (with deficits on current account averaging about 8
percent of GNP during 1976-80) and cutbacks in GRZ recurrent expenditures.
1/   Report No. 40/79 ZAM.
2/   Report No. 34/80 ZAM4. 13.



- 2 -
1.04      Zambia has a dual budgetary system whereby the annual recurrent
budget and capital budget are prepared separately by the Ministry of Finance
and the National Commission for Development Planning, respectively. The
recurrent budget includes all public expenditure outlays required to operate
and maintain existing government services in the economy, while the capital
budget includes all investment outlays for ongoing and new public projects.
So far, these budgets have been prepared, discussed and approved with
little reference to each other. The virtual absence of coordination between
the two budgets has contributed significantly to a recurrent financing problem
for a number of government services, including services to Zambia-s agriculture
(para 1.10).
C. Agricultural Performance
1.05      The agricultural sector in Zambia is markedly dualistic.  -On the one
hand, there is a relatively small modern sector of about 800 heavily-capital-
ized farmers (mainly of European origin) and a small number of state farms
and ranches, all of which farm State Land on a leasehold basis along the line-
of-rail. On the other hand, there are about 600,000 farm families on land
held under traditional tenure, the majority of whom cultivate less than 2ha
using hand- or ox-cultivation and are oriented towards subsistence production.
This extreme dualism has been modified in recent years by two developments.
Firstly, a number of medium-scale Zambian farmers ('emergent farmers'), also
along the line-of-rail, have developed mechanized farms geared to the commer-
cial market. Secondly, an increasing number of small farmers, particularly in
the Southern, Central and Eastern Provinces, have begun to produce marketable
crop surpluses.
1.06      Although agriculture provides a livelihood for over 50% of Zambia's
population, it accounted for only 14% of GDP in 1980. In real terms, agricul-
tural output grew at an average annual rate of 2.8% over the period 1970-78,
somewhat less than the rate of population growth; it declined by 9 percent in
1979 and recovered slightly in 1980. The development of agricultural exports
has historically been very limited. Apart from limited quantities of maize,
which were exported to neighboring countries in each year of 1970-78, tobacco
and confectionary groundnuts are the only regular exports, accounting though
for less than 1% of total exports. Imports of agricultural commodities have
shown an increasing trend during the 1970s, reaching K 46 million (about 8% of
total imports) in 1979. The major items imported have been cereals (mainly
wheat and rice) which accounted for about 50% of 1979 agricultural imports,
dairy products (11%) and vegetable oils and oilseed cakes (17%).
1.07      Marketings of the major agricultural commodities produced in Zambia
in the years 1969-79 are shown in Annex 1, Table T-1. Marketing of maize, by
far the most important crop, increased from an average of 260,000m tons p.a.
in 1969-71 to 750,000m tons in 1976. However, production has since fallen
off dramatically, despite higher prices, as a result of a combination of poor
rains, late fertilizer imports, and lack of machinery and spare parts in the



- 3 -
commercial sector resulting from foreign exchange shortages. The low produc-
tion levels in 1979 resulted in maize imports of about 300,000m tons to meet
domestic demand. Sugar cane production (all from large estates) has increased
steadily, keeping the country self-sufficient. Marketed production of tobacco
(flue-cured and burley), groundnuts and beef cattle have stagnated, while milk
production has declined. Production of sunflower seeds and soybeans has
increased since 1970, but remains small in absolute terms. Seed cotton
production declined from 1971 through 1974, but has since increased dramatic-
ally, particularly in the 1978/79-1979/80 crop seasons as a result of better
prices. Commercial and emergent farmers account for about 40% of official
sales of maize, over 90% of tobacco production and virtually all official
sales of wheat, milk and pigs. The smallholder sector now accounts for about
60% of maize sales, 85% of official sales of sunflower seed, and nearly all
sales of rice, seed cotton and groundnuts.
D. Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
1.08       GRZ has, in its statements of development objectives, consistently
given priority to rural development and to increased agricultural production,
emphasizing the achievement of higher levels of self-sufficiency in staple
foods, the provision of raw materials for domestic agro-processing industries,
the exploitation of export potentials, and a reduction in urban-rural income
disparities.
1.09       The priority accorded to agriculture and rural development has
been reflected, particularly in recent years, in the proportion of the GRZ
development budget allocated to agriculture which, after declining from 20(% in
1970 to only 11% in 1974-76, has since risen to 27% in 1979, 25% in 1980, and
30% in 1981-83. The resources have been invested in parastatal production and
marketing enterprises (which have proved to be inefficient) and in a number
of highly subsidized smallholder development schemes (mainly involving re-
settlement) which have benefitted a few farmers at a high cost and which have
produced only modest increases in production. Nevertheless, GRZ gives greater
importance now than in the past to improving the efficiency and output of
the smallholder sub-sector, and is according priority to investment in much
broader-based regional agricultural and rural development projects. The Bank
has already agreed to finance the first project in this series, giving assis-
tance to smallholder development in Eastern Province (Loan Number 2001-ZAM),
and similar projects are currently being prepared, for external donor finan-
cing, in the Western, North-Western and Northern Provinces of Zambia; in
addition, the Bank recently appraised a smallholder dairy project.
1.10       The agricultural sector has not, however, been allocated recurrent
budgetary resources commensurate with its stated importance. MAWD receives
only about 3% of the recurrent GRZ budget to finance its support services to
the agricultural sector, and it is estimated that these allocations have been
underfunded by about 40% in recent years. Furthermore, an increasing propor-
tion of these funds have been earmarked for personal emoluments, and the sums



-4-
available to meet recurrent departmental charges (for office supplies, travel-
ling allowances, petrol, oil, and lubricants, training, and other goods and
services) have become increasingly less than adequate to enable MAWD staff
to perform their duties effectively. The shortage of funds for recurrent
charges has resulted in long delays in providing services and, in many cases,
total non-availability of many agricultural services to the farmers. Partly
as a result of the Bank's study in FY80 and FY81 of the recurrent budgetary
resources required to enable full and effective utilization of staff, GRZ has
agreed to review MAWD's current programs and to strengthen MAWD's capacity for
planning and policy analysis with the view to rationalizing MAWD's overall
allocation of budgetary resources in the long-run.
E. Agricultural Services
General
1.11      The agricultural sector in Zambia is serviced almost entirely
by government or parastatal organizations and cooperative unions, of which
the the main ones are: MAWD and its departments and training institutes; the
National Agricultural Marketing Board (NAMB), Cold Storage Board (CSB), Dairy
Produce Board (DPB), and Rural Development Corporation (RDC) and its subsi-
diaries; and the Provincial Cooperative Unions (PCUs). A few services are
supplied by private sector firms; these include machinery and equipment
suppliers and suppliers of agricultural chemicals (other than fertilizers).
1.12      MAWD is headed administratively by a Permanent Secretary, as:sisted by
two UnderSecretaries (for Planning and for Administration) and six Assistant
Secretaries, and comprises three service departments (dealing with Finance,
Personnel and Administration), a Planning Unit, five major operating depart-
ments (the Departments of Agriculture, Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control,
Marketing and Cooperatives, Water Affairs, and the National Farming Infor-
mation Services), and a number of training institutions (para 1.16). MAWD
headquarters is responsible for overall policy formulation, planning and
administration, but the field operations of MAWD departments are directed by
Provincial Agricultural Officers (PAOs) in each province. As a result of a
chronic shortage of qualified Zambian professional staff, staff shortages
exist in all MAWD departments, despite heavy reliance on expatriate staff
employed under contract. The effective provision of agricultural services
is further constrained by the shortage of recurrent budgetary resources
(para 1.10).
Agricultural Research
1.13      Most agricultural research in Zambia is carried out by the Research
Branch of the Department of Agriculture of MAWD. The Research Branch has its
Headquarters and central research station at Mount Makulu near Lusaka, and
operates, in addition, 9 regional research stations (with a total of 16 asso-
ciated sub-stations), a national irrigation and an animal husbandry research



station. These research facilities are relatively well furnished with office
space, laboratory space, housing and agricultural land. The Research Branch
has specialist sections covering plant breeding, plant protection, weed con-
trol, agricultural chemistry, soil science, entomology, pasture ecology and
research, farm mechanization, tree crops research, microbiology and bacteri-
ology, farm management, stored products, irrigation and animal husbandry.
Over the past 18 months the Government has been working on a reorganization
of the national research system, in order to make it more responsive to the
conditions and needs of smallholders. Draft proposals include the establish-
ment of multi-disciplinary research teams to address the problems of particular
farming systems (e.g. in high rainfall areas) or of groups of related crops
(e.g. oilseeds, graincrops), and of Adaptive Research Planning Teams (ARPT)
staffed by economists and plant scientists, who would focus on area-specific
problems of smallholders. In addition to the Research Branch, the University
of Zambia and the National Council for Scientific Research undertake limited
research projects, and MAWD's Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse
Control operates a veterinary research station. Overall, agricultural
research in Zambia, though potentially effective, is constrained by the
shortage of funds and by a lack of staff continuity, since over 70% of
professional research officers are expatriates serving only on short-term
contracts.
Agricultural Extension
1.14      Agricultural extension services for livestock and crops other than
tobacco (for which the Tobacco Board of Zambia is responsible) are provided by
the Extension Branch of MAWD's Department of Agriculture, and are organized
on a provincial and district basis, under the PAO in each Province. There
are about 80 professional officers (graduates), about 120 technical officers
(generally diploma holders) and over 600 junior technical officers and agri-
cultural assistants (certificate-level staff). In addition, there are about
800 agricultural and commodity demonstrators, who have received only short-
course training. In total there are thus about 1600 extension staff, or one
to every 350 farm families on average, which is a favorable ratio. However,
the demonstrators are poorly trained and equipped, whereas many of the profes-
sional officers are expatriates, also on short-term contracts, with little
previous local experience. Many technical and junior technical staff fill
specialist posts at provincial level, leaving lower caliber staff without
adequate supervision to contact farmers. Field staff do not work to specific
programs. Recurrent funds for travelling on duty have been so seriously
curtailed that many officers are virtually desk-bound. Low pay and difficult
living conditions have lowered morale. This latter problem has now been
partly addressed since, from November 1980, the pay of commodity demonstrators
has been raised by over 60%, to K 115 per month. Nevertheless, the extension
service has been and remains relatively ineffective, despite the existence,
for many parts of Zambia, of attractive, proven, technical packages.
Animal Health Services
1.15      The Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control in MAWD,
through its 30 graduates, 60 diplomates and supporting field staff provides



- 6 -
nationwide veterinary services to farmers, and controls tsetse fly infesta-
tions. Staff quality is good and the major constraint is shortage of drugs
and dipping materials, and lack of recurrent operating funds.
Agricultural Training
1.16      The University of Zambia conducts agricultural degree courses and
produces about 22 graduates annually. The Natural Resources Development
College (NRDC) offers a three year diploma course in agriculture, with an
annual output of about 20 diplomates. Two Colleges of Agriculture (at Monze
and at Mpika) run two-year certificate level courses, producing in total about
150 certificate holders annually. In addition, the Zambia Institute of Animal
Health produces 20-30 veterinary assistants (certificate-holders) annually.
There are 8 Farm Institutes (FIs) (one in each province except Lusaka), which
run induction courses for commodity demonstrators, and about fifty Farm
Training Centers (FTCs) (about one in each district), which run courses for
farmers, women's groups, cooperatives, etc. These FTCs are presently operating
at about 20% of capacity, and studies have shown that FTC courses have little
or no impact on farmers attending them. Except for the FTCs, the quality of
training institutions is good, and the main problem is their low output.
Credit
1.17      Four commercial banks each have 15%-30% of their loan portfolios
(about K 17-20 million in total) in agriculture, mostly as seasonal credit to
commercial farrncrs. The Zambia State Insurance Company and the Development
Bank of Zambia (which is supported by IBRD through Loan 1210-ZA) are both
engaged in medium- and long-term lending to larger farmers. The Agricultural
Finance Company (AFC) (paras. 2.10-2.13) which is a subsidiary of RDC, is
the only significant source of medium-term and seasonal credit to smallholders.
The PCUs disburse small amounts of credit on their own account, using funds
supplied partly by AFC. Interest rates on agricultural credit are in the
range 9%-12% (somewhat below rates in other sectors, which are in the 10%-12%
range), negative in real terms (the low-income, urban consumer price index
averaged 18 percent per annum in 1976-78 and 11 percent per annum in 1979-80).
An interest rate ceiling of 12% on all domestic lending is currently imposed
by the Bank of Zambia. A new credit institution, the Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank (ZADB), has recently been established by GRZ, and it is
intended that ZADB should replace AFC and the Cattle Finance Company (CFC)
which is also an RDC subsidiary and which lends only for livestock production.
Requests for credit continue substantially in excess of available loan funds.
Repayment rates have deteriorated in recent years for a variety of reasons,
including inadequate staffing, insufficient field supervision coupled with
rapid expansion in lendings, all of which need addressing before agricultural
credit can be made more effective.
Input Supply
1.18      Fertilizer.  NAMB (paras 1.24-1.25) is the sole importer of fertilizer
in Zambia, while PCUs purchase from NAMB and distribute fertilizers in the
provinces. Fertilizer use in Zambia increased from about 90,000m tons in



the 1971/72 crop season to about 180,000 tons in the 1979/80 season, a large
proportion of which is used by commercial farmers. All fertilizers except
ammonium nitrate (which accounts for about 10-15% of fertilizer consumption)
are imported. In common with other agricultural inputs, fertilizer prices
charged to farmers are uniform throughout Zambia. Since 1971/72, farmers
prices have been less than the landed price of fertilizer, and GRZ has reim-
bursed NAMB for the difference between the landed price and NAMB's selling
price, and for all of NAMB's costs of handling and distribution. Since
January 1981 the PCUs have been made responsible for the distribution of
fertilizers in the provinces and shall receive restitution similar to NAMB's.
Further, the increases in the price charged to farmers were, until the 1979/80
crop season, much less than the increases in the landed cost of fertilizers.
As a result, the cost to GRZ of these subsidies rose sharply from about K 3
million in 1971/72 to over K 43 million in the 1980/81 crop season, by which
time the price charged to farmers for fertilizer was less than 60% of landed
cost. Following discussions with the IMF, GRZ has agreed to reduce its
subsidy per unit of fertilizer by 50% by the end of 1983.
1.19      Seeds.  Improved seeds in Zambia are produced by commercial farmers
under the supervision of staff of the Research Branch, which certifies seed
prior to distribution. Zambia is generally self-sufficient in the production
of seed for the major agricultural crops except sunflower and soybeans,
although adverse weather conditions have forced the importation of substantial
quantities of seed maize in some years. Vegetable seeds are not produced in
Zambia. NAMB was responsible for the import, distribution and sale of seeds
until December 1980, when this function was taken over by the newly estalblished
Zambia Seed Company. This company, which has a substantial private shareholding,
will receive technical assistance from a Swedish seed company and will take
over from the Research Branch the supervision of growers and the certification
of seed.
1.20      Agricultural chemicals.  Insecticides, herbicides, fungicides and
disinfectants for use in the commercial sector are imported and sold by pri-
vate sector enterprises, usually branches or agents of major international
chemical companies. NAMB imports agricultural chemicals for general use in
the smallholder sector. The Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO; para 1.23) which
purchased cotton pesticides from NAMB during the 1978/79 and 1979/80 seasons,
has been importing these chemicals on its own account as from the 1980/81 crop
season.
1.21      Agricultural machinery and equipment.  Agricultural machinery
for use in the commercial sector is imported and sold by private sector firms
as well as a parastatal outlet (African Farm Equipment Ltd). As a result of
foreign exchange constraints in recent years, there has been a shortage of
equipment and particularly of spare parts. Ox-drawn equipment and spares and
hand-tools are imported by NAMB and distributed by PCUs. These were in short
supply between 1976 and late 1979, but adequate supplies are now beginning to
arrive in Zambia. All such equipment is presently being imported (mainly from
India) but a local manufacturing firm (supported by the Bank through its line
of credit to DBZ) has recently begun to manufacture ox ploughs locally.



-8-
Marketing
1.22      Agricultural marketing in Zambia is dominated by parastatals and the
PCUs. LINTCO purchases cotton from farmers, using marketing unions as agents
in Eastern and Southern Provinces, but directly in other areas. The Tobacco
Board of Zambia (TBZ) buys tobacco. The Southern Province Cooperative Marketing
Union (SPCMU - paras. 2.15-2.17) is the sole official purchaser of maize, and
the buyer of last resort for all other major crops, including groundnuts,
sunflower, wheat and rice in the Southern Province. NAMB is responsible for
inter-provincial trade in these crops. The CSB purchases cattle and pigs,
in competition with private butchers, and the DPB purchases fresh milk from
producers close to the main line-of-rail markets.
1.23      LINTCO was established by GRZ in 1978 and charged with the responsi-
bility for developing cotton production, processing seed cotton, and marketing
lint and cotton seed. In 1979, LINTCO began to strengthen its operations in
Central and Southern Provinces under a project financed by the European Develop-
ment Fund. In Southern Province, the project aims to promote cotton production
in the "intensive" areas of the Plateau and in Gwembe Valley. In Gwembe
District, LINTCO is establishing ten depots for supplying inputs related to
cotton production, for the marketing of seed cotton, and for the provision of
extension services covering all crops but with emphasis on cotton production.
On the Plateau, similar but less intensive services would be provided from
three depots. MAWD has agreed to loan extension field staff and cotton
specialists to LINTCO for a trial two-year period while this Project is in
progress, and to review this arrangement at the end of this period.  A signif-
icant advantage of the present arrangement recognized by both parties (LINTCO
and MAWD) has been the greater effectiveness of MAWD extension staff when they
are provided with transport and improved levels of financial support.
1.24      NAMB was created in 1969 as a statutory body by the merger of two
previous marketing organizations. Until December 31, 1980, NAMB enjoyed a
legal monopoly throughout Zambia on the purchase, sale, import, export, and
storage of maize, and was also the residual buyer of a wide range of con-
trolled crops, the most important of which were groundnuts, sunflower seed,
and beans. However, effective January 1981, part of this legal monopoly
was transferred to the PCUs in four provinces, where NAMB will in future deal
in inter-provincial trade in these commodities. In addition to its crop
purchase activities, NAMB has and will in future retain a monopoly on the
import of fertilizers; the PCUs in the four Provinces, including Southern
Province, will distribute and sell fertilizers and other agricultural supplies
and implements to farmers.
1.25      As stated, NAMB's buying and selling prices for virtually all of the
items handled (both produce and inputs) are fixed by GRZ. These prices have
consistently been set by GRZ at levels which have resulted in NAMB being unable
to cover its costs of operations. The resultant losses are covered by GRZ
subsidy.  These subsidy payments were K 44 million in 1978, K 90 million in



1979, 1/ and are estimated to have been K 171 million in 1980. GRZ has taken
steps to reduce these subsidies by eliminating price differentials on maize
beginning in 1981, though such differentials still remain on imported fer-
tilizers (para. 1.18). The handling subsidy on maize continues to exist, but
under the IMF's Extended Fund Facility is scheduled to be phased out by the
end of 1983.
F. Agricultural Pricing Policy
Producer Prices
1.26      It is GRZ policy to set producer prices for a wide range of commodi-
ties (including maize, cotton, groundnuts, sunflower, soya beans, rice, wheat,
and milk). Prices are reviewed annually by the Planning Unit of MAWD, which
formulates recommendations for Cabinet, which takes the final decision. The
principal criterion used in establishing producer prices is to ensure that
farmers cover their costs of production and obtain a reasonable profit, although
other factors such as export or import parity prices, the desire for self-
sufficiency and relative crop profitability are also considered. For crops
(maize, wheat, sunflower, soybean) and milk produced by large commercial
farmers, the objective in recent years has been to set prices at a level which
would give a rate of return of 8%-12% on capital employed.
1.27      Since 1973/74, prices have been set on a uniform national basis,
so that the marketing agents must purchase at a price which does not vary
with the distance from the final market. Producer prices are also uniform
throughout the marketing season, and thus do not reflect seasonal variations
in the cost of supply or storage. The objective of this policy is to promote
agricultural development in the remote regions of Zambia by nullifying the
effects of transport cost. However, the effect is a higher cost of marketed
production and inefficient pattern of crop production.
1.28      Producer prices for the major crops increased substantially over the
period 1974/75 to 1979/80: for example by 134% for maize, 44% for cotton, 94%
for groundnuts and 74% for sunflower. However, a recent consultant study 2/
carried out for the Bank has indicated that Zambian farmers have consistently
received lower crop prices than if they had received export or import parity
prices. Although the extent of this implicit taxation (which averaged 25%
during the period 1965/66 to 1974/75) has decreased in more recent years
as a result of increased producer prices, it still averaged 16% in the 1975/76
to 1978/79 crop seasons. Further increases in producer prices in 1980 and,
most recently, in May 1981 may have reduced this indirect taxation slightly.
1/   Of which K 40 million were deficits accruing from 1977 and 1978.
2/   "Zambian Agricultural Pricing and Marketing Policy," by Doris Jansen
Dodge, April 1979.



- 10 -
Consumer Prices
1.29      It is also GRZ policy to control the wholesale and retail prices
of most agricultural commodities, with the exception of fruit, vegetables,
poultry and eggs. The principal effect of these price controls has been
that consumer prices have not risen in line with producer prices, so that
consumers (who are mainly in urban areas) have been subsidized. The cost to
GRZ of these subsidies has increased rapidly in recent years. For example,
in 1978, the subsidy on maize sales cost GRZ about K 26 million. In 1979, the
cost of this subsidy had risen to about K 33 million, as the producer price
rose from K 6.80 to K 9.00 per bag. GRZ raised the maize consumer price by
about 60% in 1979 and by another 33% in January 1981, and although this did
not eliminate the consumer subsidy, it is due to be removed by the end of 1983
(para 1.25). GRZ is negotiating with USAID on a program of technical assis-
tance to the Planning Unit of MAWD, to strengthen its ability to review and
formulate pricing policies.
G. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.30      The Bank Group has made six loans (two for industrial forestry,
one for livestock development, two for tobacco production, and one for area
development) and one credit (for coffee production). The livestock loan was
cancelled in 1973 at GRZ request because of pricing problems and poor manage-
ment. The first forestry project was well executed, and completed a year
ahead of schedule. The second industrial forestry project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The commercial tobacco farming project was completed, but was
unsuccessful in meeting its goal of successfully training and establishing
Zambian commercial tobacco farmers and hence raising tobacco production. The
family farming tobacco project has recently been completed, again, unsuccess-
fully. The project encountered major managerial problems and experienced
difficulties as a result of tobacco prices that were unattractive in relation
to the price of other crops, particularly maize. The coffee project has
started satisfactorily, although constrained by shortages of foreign exchange
and GRZ funds. The Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project (para
1.01) is the first to involve MAWD as an executing agency - all the earlier
projects came under parastatals, which have had in the past a poor record
of performance in project implementation (para 1.31). A smallholder Dairy
Development Project has been appraised and is now being processed. In 1970,
the Bank appraised a Second Livestock Development Project, but turned it
down as being non-viable. This led instead to the preparation of a Mixed
Farming Development Project, but both this and an Intensive Development Zone
Project were withdrawn by GRZ in 1975 because it was reluctant to use Bank
funds for agriculture and it questioned the ability of the then Ministry
of Rural Development to execute them. Assistance to agriculture has also been
provided through projects in other sectors. The Fourth Education Project, for
example, has a major component to strengthen the training of extension staff
and farmers, and a line of credit to the Development Bank of Zambia has
financed the provision of medium and long-term finance to commercial farmers



- 11 -
and to a firm of agricultural machinery manufacturers. The Bank has also
assisted GRZ in analyzing the problems and potentials of the rural and agri-
cultural sector, through a sector survey in 1975, an identification report
in 1978, a review of agricultural pricing and marketing policy in 1979/80,
agricultural credit in 1979, and a recurrent budgetary study in 1980. Future
work programs provide for a study of agricultural services, further investiga-
tion of agricultural prices and subsidies, the organization and management of
parastatals, and an agricultural sector memorandum.
1.31      A PCR for the Family Farming Project (Loan Number 882-ZA) was
recently completed and the lessons learned from this and previous Bank involve-
ment in Zambian agriculture have been incorporated into the proposed Project.
These lessons are the need for Government parastatal agencies to overcome mis-
management, inadequate staffing, and financial and accounting problems, and to
recognize their institutional weaknesses as vehicles for organizing sustained
agricultural development. The present Project seeks to support directly
MAWD's involvement as a primary vehicle for organizing sustained agricultural
development. It addresses the problem of severe financial constraints facing
GRZ by including local cost financing and ensuring that the principal market-
ing agency in Southern Province receives full restitution for its services.
It provides technical assistance for staffing key positions, thereby also
strengthening the agencies (which are all, with the exception of ZADB, already
fully established) that would be involved in Project implementation.
II. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
2.01      In addition to its headquarters, MAWD has four operating departments
that would have a role in the Project: Agriculture; Veterinary Services and
Tsetse Control; Marketing and Cooperatives; and Water Affairs.
MAWD Headquarters
2.02      Headquarters is responsible for overall policy formulation, plan-
ning, and administration. Functionally, it is divided into: Planning,
Finance, Personnel, Administration, Special Duties and Training Actions.
The Planning Unit coordinates planning and monitoring activities, and compiles
agricultural statistics; it is headed by an Undersecretary for Planning. The
other sections are each headed by an Assistant Secretary. The Administration
section has under it the National Farming Information Services (NFIS) which
provides printed material and produces radio, television and film programs
covering MAWD's extension activities to the farming community.
2.03      The Training section has overall responsibility for the operation
of the four agricultural colleges: the Natural Resources Development College,
Lusaka (NRDC); Zambia College of Agriculture, Monze (ZCA); Mpika College of



- 12 -
Agriculture (MCA); and the National Institute of Animal Health (NIAH), Mazabuka.
The NRDC offers a three-year diploma course in agriculture and livestock
science while the ZCA, MCA, and NIAH run two-year certificate courses in
agriculture and animal health.
Department of Agriculture
2.04      The Department of Agriculture is responsible for all agricultural
research and extension activities and provides land use advice and services
to farmers. The Research Branch is based at Mount Makulu Central Research
Station near Lusaka although the Deputy Director for Research is based at the
MAWD head office in Lusaka. The Branch operates a number of Regional Research
Stations throughout the country, including two in Southern Province at Magoye
and Mochipapa. The research system is in the process of reorganization.
Among the merits of draft proposals being prepared are that problems of tra-
ditional farmers and the economic implications of research findings will be
given more consideration in future. The Extension Division provides extension
services to farmers for crop and animal husbandry. Its Deputy Director is
supported by chief subject matter specialists. The field operations of
the Extension Division are under Provincial Agricultural Officers (PAOs)
and District Agricultural Officers (DAOs) in each province and district,
respectively.
Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control (DVSTC)
2.05      The Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control provides
nationwide dipping and veterinary services to farmers and undertakes to
control tsetse fly infestation through the maintenance of holding lines and
periodic spraying campaigns. Veterinary services are available in all dis-
tricts throughout Zambia, whereas tsetse control is carried on only in areas
under tsetse challenge. DVSTC has relatively well-trained staff who are
nonetheless ineffective because of lack of supporting recurrent funds.
Department of Cooperatives and Marketing (DCM)
2.06      The Department of Cooperatives and Marketing's responsibilities
include: (a) coordination of all agricultural marketing and input supply
services (until recently provided by parastatal organizations); (b) pilot
marketing schemes; (c) issuing import and export permits for agricultural
products; and (d) fostering the formation of viable cooperative societies.
The Department is represented at provincial and district levels by field
staff.
Department of Water Affairs (DWA)
2.07      The Department of Water Affairs is responsible for long-term plan-
ning of water supply development, provision of rural water supply facilities,
and the maintenance of canals and waterways in the rural areas. At the pro-
vincial level, the activities of the Department is supervised by the Provincial
Water Engineers who have provincial as well as district responsibilities.



- 13 -
B. Provincial and District Administrations
2.08      The Southern Province is one of Zambia's nine provinces and contains
seven of Zambia's 54 districts. The political head of each Province is a
Member of the Central Committee (MCC) of Zambia's sole political party, the
United National Independence Party (UNIP), and is an appointee of the President
with cabinet status. The provincial administration in each Province is
headed by a Provincial Permanent Secretary (PPS) who is responsible to a
Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office. At the district level, a
District Governor (a Presidential appointee) heads both the administrative
and party organizations. All major departments of GRZ central ministries and
parastatals are represented at Provincial and District level. While the PPS
has direct control over GRZ staff in the province with respect to discipline
and general administration, provincial staff are still responsible on technical
matters to their central ministries, and recurrent funds for the operation of
GRZ provincial departments are channelled through the central ministries.
Also, investments that are part of a national program are controlled by the
relevant central ministry. Since 1972, GRZ has been progressively decentral-
izing decision-making authority to the Provincial level, and although this has
still not proceeded very far it is the stated intention of GRZ that the propor-
tion of development funds directly controlled by the Provincial Administration
should increase over time.
2.09      A Provincial Development Committee (PDC) is the main instrument
for coordination and communication within each Province. Each PDC, which is
chaired by the MCC, comprises all provincial department heads, heads of para-
statal organizations and Members of Parliament with constituencies within the
Province. At District level, a similar role is fulfilled by District Develop-
ment Committees, chaired by the District Governor and comprising all district
departmental heads, district heads of parastatals and Rural Council chairmen
and secretaries. Rural councils play a limited role, having some responsibi-
lities for revenue collection and the maintenance of minor public works, such
as local roads.
C. Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
2.10      The Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) was established
by legislation passed by the Zambian Parliament in March 1979. It is intended
that ZADB would take over the functions of AFC and the smaller CFC. The
reasons cited by GRZ for the replacement of AFC are the restricted access of
this organization to financial resources (AFC could accept capital and loan
funds only from GRZ) and the recent deterioration in AFC loan recovery rates,
which together have forced a sharp cutback in loan disbursements. To overcome
the first of these problems, ZADB is empowered to accept both local and inter-
national equity capital from any source, to accept local deposits of funds by
investors, and to have access to Bank of Zambia rediscounting facilities.



- 14 -
2.11      ZADB is not yet operational.  However, a Board Chairman and five
of nine directors have been appointed, and efforts are underway to appoint
a General Manager who would possibly be funded from bilateral aid sources in
case GRZ decides to recruit internationally. Commitments of roughly K 25
million in equity contributions have been reported from various sources,
including GRZ, the Zambia National Provident Fund, and the Zambia State
Insurance Company. ZADB has an authorized capital limit of K 75 million.
Under the Eastern Province Project, funds have been provided to finance
technical assistance to strengthen ZADB's credit operations at a national
level. One of ZADB's responsibilities would be to gradually define the
credit role to be played by PCUs in the longer term.
2.12      AFC carries out its operations through its main office in Lusaka,
provincial offices in each of the nine provinces, and a network of 41 district
offices. It employs about 550 staff, of whom 80 are at headquarters, about
200 in provincial offices and about 270 in district offices. Annual disburse-
ments by AFC averaged about K 8.5 million during the first four years of
operations (1970/71-1973/74), and recoveries averaged between 85% and 90%.
Annual disbursements almost tripled over the next four years of operations,
and reached a level of K 24 million in the 1977/78 season. Recovery rates
declined during this period of rapid expansion (para 1.17) to a level of only
40% in 1977/78, and this reduction in available funds forced a cutback in
disbursements to only K 15 million. About 85% of annual disbursements are
for seasonal loans.
2.13      Expenses have exceeded income in each year of AFC operations, in
1978 by almost 50%. However, GRZ has made annual grants to AFC to cover the
costs to AFC of maintaining uineconomic district offices, and these grants
have generally enabled AFC to break even before provision for bad debts.
However, as a result of deteriorating loan recoveries, shareholder equity
in AFC declined from K 10-13 million during 1974-77 to K 5 million in 1978.
Important factors contributing to AFC's weak performance are the low level of
interest rates (AFC charges 7% for onlending to PCUs and 9% to individuals),
and the fact that AFC handles loans (which are usually smaller than the break-
even size) on an individual basis rather than a group basis.
2.14      Assurances were obtained during negotiations of the Eastern Pro-
vince Agricultural Development Project that GRZ would pay to ZADB an annual
subsidy to meet the costs of any uneconomic offices maintained by ZADB at
the direction of GRZ. Although it is expected that, eventually, ZADB would
be able to operate at a lower cost than AFC, it is likely that interest
rates would need to be raised from present levels if ZADB is to be finan-
cially viable and real interest rates positive, given projected rates of
inflation. An early task of ZADB management, strengthened by the technical
assistance funded under the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project,
would be to draw up operating policies and procedures and a financing plan
for ZADB operations which would detail projected operating costs and interest
rates required to maintain financial viability. It was agreed during nego-
tiations for that Project that such operating policies, procedures, and
financing plan would be drawn up and presented to the Bank by March 31,



- 15 -
1982 in a comprehensive 5-year plan satisfactory to the Bank. It was also
agreed that ZADB would progressively raise its interest rates so tnat by
March 31, 1984 these would be sufficient to cover its costs of funds,
operating costs (after allowances for any GRZ subsidy) and reasonable pro-
vision for bad debts and that GRZ would take all measures to revise the
maximum interest rate in order that ZADB could carry out this obligation.
D. The Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union (SPCMU)
2.15      The Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union operates in
accordance with the Cooperative Societies Act of 1970 and a statutory in-
strument, the Cooperative Society Rules of 1972. SPCMU has about 30,000
members (with 76 societies), an accumulated capital of about K 1.2 million,
and a turnover that increased from K 9.2 million in 1975 to K 22.8 million
in 1978. Its main activities and primary sources of income are crop marketing
(mainly maize) and input supply; in addition, it operates a credit scheme
for its members using funds drawn from AFC (mostly) and from a bilateral
donor. Prior to December 31, 1980 and with the exception of Gwembe District,
the SPCMU acted as sole agent of NAMB in Southern Province for both produce
marketing and input supply. Government's decision to reorganize the respon-
sibilities for agricultural marketing and input delivery means that, effective
January 1, 1981, SPCMU became responsible for purchasing agricultural produce
from farmers on its own account and selling it either to mills and consumers
for consumption within Southern Province or to NAMB. Only produce that is
surplus to provincial requirements would be sold to NAMB.
2.16      SPCMU buys crops through a network of about 500 seasonal depots
operated by its primary societies. Its financial needs for crop purchase
and other business activities are supported by Government guaranteed over-
drafts from commercial banks; the overdraft limits for 1978 and 1979 were
K 10 and K 12 million respectively. Trading losses resulting from the price
framework laid down by GRZ are partly covered by GRZ subsidy (restitution)
payments; these amounted to K 2.8 million in 1976, K 4.5 million in 1977,
K 6.5 million in 1978, and K 4.9 million in 1979. The Union earns a surplus
on its business activities, which increased from K 0.6 million in 1975 to K
0.9 million in 1979.
2.17      SPCMU has a 13-man Board of Directors, elected from among the 30,000
society members of its 76 affiliated cooperative societies. Its chief executive
is the General Manager. SPCMU has a headquarters office in Choma, and five
district offices. It is organized into four departments - marketing, account-
ing, administration and cooperative education, and publicity, and has a total
staff of 223 permanent employees; in addition, it employs up to 50 temporary
workers in each district during the marketing season.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical
3.01      The Project area comprise2 the whole of Southern province of Zambia
(Map IBRD 15604), or about 85,230km , located between 15030 , and 18000  south
latitude. It is made up of four distinct physiographical regions: (i) the
plateau, from 1,000m-1,400m above sea level with a generally flat to gently
rolling topography; (ii) the Gwembe valley, from about 300m above sea level
along the Kariba lake shore to 800m a.s.l., the actual valley bottom lying
between the 300 and 600m contours; (iii) the escarpment, dissected by small,
fertile valleys, between the plateau and valley; and (iv) the Kafue flats.
3.02      Average annual rainfall ranges from 800-900mm on the plateau and
flats, decreasing to 700mm in the southern districts and in the Gwembe valley.
Mean annual temperatures are moderate tropical (17.5 C-22.5C), except for
the Gwembe valley (mean annual temperature over 22.50C), with winter minimal
dropping below freezing on two or three days in the northern half and up to ten
days in the southern half of the province. The mean duration of the growing
season in the northeastern and central plateau is about 130 days, with 80-90
rain days per year; the rest of the plateau has a growing season of 120-130
days and an average of 70-80 rain days. The Gwembe valley has a growing
season of 110-120 days and an average of 50-60 rain days. For the escarpment,
the figures are 120 days and 80-90 days, respectively. The risk of dry spells
occurring during the growing season increases from north to south and is higher
on the plateau than it is in the valley. Soils in the province are quite
variable, with valley soils heavier than the plateau soils. The upper valley
soils in the Mazabuka and Monze districts of the plateau range from sandy to
heavy loams, whereas the southern plateau soils of Kalomo and Choma districts
are sandy loams to sands (sandveldt soils), acidic and reasonably easy to
plough. Soils on the escarpment are of little agricultural value, but there
are pockets of deeper, colluvial and alluvial soils well suited to cotton,
sorghum and sunflower production. The poorly drained, heavy soils of the
Kafue flats are mostly suited to extensive grazing. Water surrounds the
Province: the Kafue river with its wide flood-plain along the northern
boundary, the Zambezi-river to the south, and the Kariba lake along the
province's eastern border. However, much of the province itself is without
reliable surface water, and domestic and stockwater is provided by dug wells,
small dams and boreholes. Irrigation development on a small scale is found in
the Mazabuka district and the Gwembe valley.
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
3.03      Southern Province has a railway and paved highway connecting
Livingstone to Lusaka and scheduled flights also connect Livingstone and
Lusaka. Provincial roads, including about 430km of paved roads and 680km



- 17 -
of all-weather gravel roads, provide the main communication network within the
state lands and connect the main towns in the more distant districts. There
are also some 1,600km of unclassified roads of poor standard under provincial
responsibility and an unspecified length of earth roads maintained by the
Rural Councils. Most provincial roads remain passable throughout the year but
most producers in the more remote areas are dependent on a poorly maintained
network of dirt tracks which can be traversed only in dry weather. Access
difficulties are a constraint to the provision of services and inputs and
the marketing of produce for rural areas; in 1978, they were the cause of
maize losses of the order of 80,000 bags. However, these difficulties of
access are also associated with lightly populated areas, and provision of
all-weather access for this rural population would not be justified by the low
traffic density and goods transport that would result. Rural water supplies
in Southern Province are inadequate in most villages. In 131 villages sur-
veyed, water for domestic use was carried on average 1.4km. The presence of
a primary school in almost every village of the province offers educational
opportunity to practically every child at least to the age of 13 or 14.
Health facilities are not as widespread; rural hospitals are generally located
only along the line-of-rail, and health clinics are not well distributed; many
patients travel more than lOOkm to visit a doctor, most of whom are located in
main centres along the line-of-rail.
C. The Farming Community
Land Use and Population
3.04      Out of the 8.25million ha of land, about 1.27million ha have been
cleared for cultivation at one time or another. However, during any one year,
at most only 0.25million ha (20% of all presently cleared land) are cropped.
An estimated 0.97million ha of good to medium agricultural soils have never
been cleared. Hence, the total area suitable for cultivation is about 2.24
million ha, or 27% of the total land area. Time series data on crop areas,
yields, and total production for Southern Province are unreliable, but esti-
mated crop areas, present yields, etc., for different categories of farmers
are summarized in Annex 1, Tables T-13 and T-14. The Province, with its
extensive underutilized grazing areas, offers an excellent opportunity for
profitable beef and milk production. Most of the cultivated area is available
for grazing prior to planting and after harvest on crop residues and only
minor areas are subject to tsetse threat. Cattle ownership, which is important
for prestige and as a means of saving, is even more important as a source of
draft power.
3.05      Traditional farmers occupy an estimated 182,000ha, or 72% of the
total annually cropped area. Emergent and small-scale commercial farmers,
including about 1,500 farm families on various settlement schemes throughout
the Province, occupy about 32,000ha (12%). About 16% of all cultivated land
is farmed by commercial farmers. This land, occupying less than 4% of all



- 18 -
State land in the Province, 1/ is among the best available in the Province
and is located in the northern and central districts, mainly along the line-
of-rail (Map IBRD 15605).
3.06      The 1980-estimated population of the province is 686,000, of which
73% is classified as rural (500,000 people). The Livingstone district is
largely urban, with only 7% of its population classified as rural. In all
of the remaining districts, the rural population accounts for between 80 and
90% of the total population, except for the Mazabuka district, whose rural
population is 71%. There are nearly 66,500 farm families in the province,
the large majority of whom (some 65,000) are traditional farmers, while
the remainder consist of an estimated 1,000 emergent farmers, and about 330
large-scale commercial farmers. Principal food and cash crops are maize.,
sorghum and millet, groundnuts, sunflower, beans and cotton. Tobacco (Virginia
flue cured) is grown largely by commercial farmers, who also grow most of the
soybean and wheat produced in the province. The poorest group of traditional
farmers are the 35% who have no oxen. Their net farm output would average
about K 300 per family per annum and would represent about 12% of total income
of traditional farmers. Among farmers in Gwembe Valley, for example, many
have to supplement their farm incomes by fishing, and others rely for survival
on remittances from family members employed in urban and Copperbelt jobs.
The other 65% of farmers, those owning oxen, have an average annual net farm
output of about K 1,200 per family. Other estimates of incomes in Zambia's
rural areas confirm that smallholder income distribution is quite unequal
(gini coefficient .47, with the top 5% of families capturing 25% of income),
and that an annual income of about K 1,200 (at 1980 prices) is needed to
satisfy the basic needs of a family of six.
Target Group
3.07      Government wants to extend greater assistance to the approximately
65,000 rural families who are largely traditional farmers, who have been
grouped into four categories as follows: (i) an estimated 6,000 family units
who depend entirely on hand tools and family labor for land preparation and
crop husbandry (Category H farmers). They include most of the female-headed
households of the province and production is for subsistence only. The
majority operate in parts of the Gwembe valley, where sorghum, millet, ground-
nuts, beans and other minor crops are grown on small plots. Because of
non-use of purchased inputs (seed, fertilizer) and lack of extension services,
per-hectare yields for individuals crops are low and subsistence needs are
generally not met by on-farm production; 2/ (ii) an estimated 10,000 families
on the plateau (Category A') and 7,000 in the Gwembe valley (Category A"),
who are also subsistence farmers. Typically, they do not own, but have access
1/   State land is land held under formal leasehold rights granted by the
President. As noted in the text, 96% of State land in the Province
is used for grazing.
2/   See paras 6.01 et seq for a description of both traditional and improved
technical packages and yields.



- 19 -
to oxen for land preparation through borrowing or hiring and can thereforie
cultivate a larger acreage than the first category; they grow the same range
of crops with minimal use of purchased inputs; (iii) an estimated 30,000
families on the plateau (Category B') and 2,000 in the Gwembe valley (Category
B"), who own some cattle, including one pair of oxen for land preparation and
general farm work. Crops are grown to satisfy subsistence requirements
(maize, sorghum/millet, groundnuts, beans), and for sale (maize and cottoin);
(iv) about 10,000 farm units on the plateau, who represent the most advanced
of the traditional farmers in the province (Category C). The area cultivated,
crops grown and total output per unit is directly related to the number of
work oxen owned, and family size. Each farm family owns several pairs of oxen
and has a larger herd of cattle than the Category B farmers.
Crops
3.08      Southern Province has always played an important role in producing
surplus maize, and since Independence it has produced on average some 35% of
the country's marketed maize. Zambia's market demand for maize presently is
of the order of 700,000 tons p.a., and in recent years this demand level has
not been matched by national market deliveries (Table T-1). Accordingly, the
Government is constantly encouraging maize production, and Southern Province
is one of the target provinces for providing surplus production. Cotton
production has shown significant increases over the past 5 years. The 1979/80
total production for the province was estimated at over 7 million kg of seed
cotton. It is a typical smallholder cash crop, and as such could compete
with foodgrain crops, particularly in the drier areas. The Gwembe valley with
its heavy soils, short growing season and high temperatures offers favorable
conditions for cotton growing and is one of the high-investment areas under
the LINTCO/EEC cotton development project for Central and Southern Province.
Other, relatively new, cash crops for the Province are sunflower and soybeans.
Timeliness is the essential requirement for successful smallholder crop
farming operations and is equally important for land preparation, planting,
weeding, input delivery, and credit services. Other critical requirements
are availability of draughtpower (oxen), and enough suitable land to enable a
farmer to produce his subsistence needs plus a surplus to provide him with the
cash requirements for crop inputs and to support other family expenditures and
lastly, technical advice geared to the circumstances under which the average
smallholder operates.
Livestock
3.09      The Southern Province has an estimated 800,000 head of cattle,
representing about 45% of the national herd. Reliable statistics of cattle
ownership do not exist, but it is estimated that about 65% of all families in
the Province own cattle and that about 88% of these cattle are owned in the
traditional sector (Table T-17) where they are an important source of draft
power. The traditional cattle herd of Southern Province is predominantly of
the indigenous Tonga, a medium-sized, hardy, heat-tolerant, general purpose
Sanga type. Traditional cattle herds derive most of their feed from the
grazing of unimproved pastures, supplemented by maize stover and crop stubbles



- 20 -
which are grazed immediately following harvest through June and July. There
is no controlled breeding program. Under traditional management, cattle gain
weight from November through March and lose weight from July through October,
reaching their lowest condition immediately before the beginning of the
cultivation season when the need for draft power is greatest. Off-take is
confined to aged animals which are usually in poor condition. At present,
about 75,000 pairs of work oxen in the Province cultivate less than 200,000
ha annually, but with better ownership distribution and improved nutrition,
these oxen could cultivate a substantially larger area. The number of cattle
slaughtered annually is calculated to be about 50,000 head. Tick borne
diseases, notably anasplamosis, piroplasmosia, ricketsiosis, corridor disease
and heartwater are endemic throughout the Province and are a major cause of
low performance and a key constraint to the introduction of upgraded cattle.
The Province has 65 dip tanks but only about 35 of these are in operation
mainly because funds are not available to purchase dipping materials. The
incidence of anthrax is not recorded, but, annual vaccinations exceeding
300,000 are maintained when vaccine supplies are available. Foot and Mouth
Disease outbreaks have occurred along the Zambezi during the last ten years
and have necessitated costly and disruptive emergency measures including
cessation of slaughter and milk processing at Livingstone. Cattle trypano-
somiasis outbreaks have been observed in the districts bordering on the tsetse
control lines and have recently been most prevalent in parts of the Gwembe
District.
D. Agricultural Services
Agricultural Extension and Training
3.10      The PAO, based in Choma, has seven District Agricultural Officers
(DAOs) reporting to him and a technical staff of eight subject matter special-
ists (SMS) in Extension and Training, Rural Information, Crop Husbandry,
Agricultural Engineering, Horticulture, Home Economics, Land Use Planning,
and Cotton Development. Supervisors of agricultural stations and of Farmer
Training Centers (FTCs) report to the DAO who, like the PAO, is supported by
SMSs, their number and disciplines varying from district to district. The
majority of Department of Agriculture staff are assigned either to the 30
agricultural stations, or to the 173 agricultural camps, situated in the main
farming areas. Camps are usually a cluster of two or three houses plus
auxiliary structures from where the village extension workers (VEWs) operate.
The agricultural camps are staffed by 149 VEWs of whom 78 are Commodity
Demonstrators (CDs) and 71 Agricultural Assistants (AAs); 27 camps are vacant.
Lack of transportation, poor accommodation, low pay, lack of working materials,
inadequate training, and poor supervision make the extension system largely
ineffective. In theory, the 173 agricultural camps in the 7 districts are
supervised by staff based at agricultural stations. In reality, however,
supervision, backstopping, feedback and training by supervisory staff and
subject matter specialists are virtually non-existent because the same short-
ages noted above affect the extension service at all levels.



- 21 -
3.11      In 1978, the Director of Agriculture issued instructions for the
countrywide introduction of an improved extension system similar to the
Training and Visit (T & V) system. This was followed, in 1979, by the intro-
duction of the Lima program which offers concrete advice on planting methods,
number of seeds, and amount of fertilizer to use on .25 ha of land. Since
SMSs and VEWs spend most of their time working with settlement farmers or with
farmers along the line-of-rail, available staff will therefore have to be
relocated, and receive initial as well as periodical retraining if they are
to serve the large number of farmers involved, particularly smallholders.
The existence of proven technical packages for smallholders would allow
Project interventions to concentrate on extension, which is the weakest
agricultural service in Southern Province. In future phases, however, it
would be desirable to strengthen also the types of research now being
formulated (para. 1.13).
3.12      Under a temporary arrangement effective October 1980, MAWD and
LINTCO agreed that field extension staff required to support the EDF-funded
LINTCO cotton development project for Central and Southern Provinces would be
seconded to LINTCO by MAWD. Under the agreement, which will be reviewed after
a 2-year trial period, the cotton project would guarantee CDs (who remain on
MAWD's payroll) subsistence and bicycle allowances, motorbicyle loans, and a
program of training for CDs, cotton buyers and farmers. In addition to the 25
CDs stationed in Gwembe District, a District Cotton Officer and the Provincial
Cotton Officer have also been seconded to LINTCO.
Animal Production and Health Services
3.13      The two parts of MAWD that are responsible for Government services
to the livestock industry are the DVSTC, which is exclusively concerned with
livestock health and disease control, and DOA's Animal Husbandry Division,
which is devoted to general animal husbandry extension. The latter activity
is channelled through the extension service's village-based AAs who are trained
in general agriculture which includes basic animal husbandry improvement prac-
tices. Technical backstopping in livestock matters for the AAs is supplied
by the district animal husbandry staff and the veterinary officers. The two
branches of DVSTC, Veterinary and Tsetse Control, are each headed by a Provin-
cial officer responsible through the Provincial administration to the Director
of DVSTC in Lusaka. The Veterinary Branch conducts routine disease control
campaigns aimed at controlling outbreaks of major diseases, as well as support-
ing a nationwide dipping program to control parasitic diseases. The tsetse
control branch is responsible for maintenance of tsetse holding lines and for
periodic spraying campaigns against fly infestation. The two branches have
well trained staff who are nonetheless ineffective because of lack of support-
ing recurrent funds, vehicles, and equipment.
Input Distribution and Storage
3.14      NAMB and SPCMU share responsibility for agricultural input supply
and distribution. NAMB maintains two bulk supply depots in Southern Province
and is primarily responsible for procurement and distribution to SPCMU of



- 22 -
a wide range of agricultural inputs including fertilizers, pesticides, seeds,
and agricultural implements. SPCMU purchases these items from NAMB usually
with a bank overdraft facility and is solely responsible for storage, distribu-
tion and sale of inputs to farmers.
3.15     The quality of permanent input storage in Southern Province is
relatively good along the line-of-rail where storage capacity will also be
supplemented shortly under a CIDA-assisted storage program. Poor roads,
however, prevent delivery for distribution in most of the rural areas once the
rains have started, and the quality of rural input storage serving smallholder
areas is poor. SPCMU has at present 88 small sheds in the rural areas with a
total capacity of about 7,500 tons to service a current annual throughput of
about 37,000 tons of fertilizer and other inputs. It is considered that
input storage for at least half the annual requirement is needed in order to
ensure availability in rural areas after the rains have started. In the face
of current storage and delivery difficulties at rural depots, fertilizer arnd
seeds have to be stored temporarily under tarpaulins, which results in losses
of at least 5% of throughput annually.
Agricultural Marketing and Produce Storage
3.16      Since January 1, 1981, the responsibility for buying and storing
most of the produce in Southern Province has passed to SPCMU. NAMB's new
role is that of buying SPCMU's deliveries of produce that is surplus to the
Province's needs and of operating "national" storage facilities at Monze and
Livingstone. Monze is the site of the only large silo facility in Southern
Province, and Livingstone is a port of entry for grain imports from countries
to the south of Zambia. The total existing grain storage capacity is 214,000
tons, consisting of one silo (15,000 tons) and hard standings and slabs
(199,000 tons) at 17 sites located along the line-of-rail. The hard standings
are concrete plinths placed on foundations. Warehouses (closed sheds),
originally constructed for grain storage, are being used for storage of
production inputs. When harvests are good and normal storage facilities are
fully used, grain bags are stacked directly onto a variety of surfaces and
covered in the normal way. The surfaces range from poorly drained bitumen or
concrete slabs to bare ground. Moisture penetration of the lower parts of
the stack is common under these conditions. Hard standings provide adequate
storage protection during the harvest period, which lasts from mid-June
through early September, and for a limited period into the rainy season.
Closed storage is required, however, for grain stored for lengthy periods,
particularly those lasting through the rainy season. Because of additional
moisture penetration into the bottom layer of temporary stacks, temporary
storage is an expedient only for the dry season. Provided that a CIDA-assisted
storage program to construct closed stores of 80,000 tons capacity in Southern
Province proceeds as scheduled, there should be adequate closed storage capacity
available through about 1990.
3.17      Several production areas face serious delays in delivery into
storage because of the long distances from rural depots to storage sites.
These delays are most evident in the Mapansa, Chitongo, Chisekesi, and Kalomo



- 23 -
production areas where losses and wastage at rural depots and trans-shipment
points have been of the order of 2% of throughput. It is estimated that about
one-half of these losses could be averted by providing additional storage
along the line-of-rail to service the Chisekesi and Kalomo areas, and at
Mapanza and Chitongo away from the line-of-rail.
3.18      The SPCMU, which has not previously been responsible for storage
activities, will face a range of new problems, and its staff will also have
to acquire new skills. Included in CIDA's proposals are provisions for
training NAMB staff in storage techniques and management. Some part of the
training program may now be redirected to benefit the PCUs, but this is not
yet clear, and there is need, therefore, for SPCMU to receive some measure
of technical assistance to ensure that it can shoulder its new storage
responsibilities.
3.19      Livestock Marketing.  The Cold Storage Board (CSB) is the designated
official buyer of cattle for the country and is restricted to purchasing
at the Government's fixed price for beef. Present official liveweight price
is K 1.00/kg. Because beef has been in short supply over the past several
years and imports have been banned, cattle owners have been able to sell at
well over this price to private buyers and independent local butchers. It is
apparent from CSB statistics and from comments in the DOA annual reports, that
there are no constraints to a free and open market for cattle and that with
demand continuing well ahead of supply, it will remain a seller's market at
least for several years.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      With the help of the Project, agricultural development in the
Province would focus, on the traditional sector (para 3.07). One aim could be
to significantly increase the cropped area, but the potential rate of increase
is restricted by the availability of family labor and draft animals. Tractor
mechanization is not practiced for many reasons, but particularly because of
investment costs and fuel requirements. The best prospects for production
increases, therefore, are with intensification of production on areas already
cultivated, and this would be the main thrust of the Project. Use of improved
seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides for the first phase of this intensification
would be attractive at both present and projected producer and input prices.
Their introduction would not require extensive fixed investments, and they
could be adopted on any scale. Introducing them to large number of small-
holders, however, requires an improvement in extension services, adequate
availability of inputs and credit within the production areas, and ready
access to markets.



- 24 -
4.02      Parallel with the crop development strategy outlined above, would be
a focus on the traditional cattle herd because of its size and therefore its
potential for increasing marketed production and the supply of draft animals.
The aim of increasing the cropped area is directly linked to the availability
of draft animals, and protection of livestock health and improvement of
livestock husbandry would support both the cropping objectives as well as the
objectives of increased meat and milk supplies. Specifically, the Project
would finance the following components:
(a)  Agricultural Extension and Training, including a reorganization
of the provincial extension service along the lines of a
modified training and visit- system, the provision of addi-
tional housing and transport, staff training, and the financing
of both incremental staff and incremental operating costs.
(b)  Livestock Development, by strengthening the animal husbandry
extension service of the Department of Agriculture, by construc-
ting additional crushes and dips, rehabilitating existing ones,
and providing for facilities to strengthen the capability of
the Veterinary service to control animal diseases, and by
strengthening the tsetse control service in Gwembe District
by providing vehicles, housing, and additional personnel.
(c)  Input Supply and Storage, including the construction of 60
rural storage sheds (with a total capacity of 12,000 tons) in
areas not served by all-weather roads, and the financing of
seed, fertilizer, and other agro-chemical requirements of
smallholder farmers over and above their presently estimated
requirements and for the duration of the project.
(d)  Produce Storage, to construct 24,000 tons of storage facilities
at key points along the line-of-rail and in the more remote
production areas and provide equipment, technical assistance,
and staff training for proper grain handling and storage
management.
(e)  Credit Development, including the provision of assistance to
strengthen the credit administration capacity of SPCMU and
its member societies for giving credit in kind to smallholders,
as well as a line of credit to ZADB (when it becomes opera-
tional) for onlending to its clients.
(f)  Project Administration, for the office of the PPS to strengthen
its capacity to lead and coordinate the agencies responsible
for project implementation and to monitor progress for purposes
of project evaluation.
4.03      Project execution would generally be through the existing regional
departments of MAWD and SPCMU and through ZADB, as appropriate to each com-
ponent. Overall responsibility for planning, coordination, monitoring, and
financial accounting of Project activities would lie with the PPS, assisted by



- 25 -
a Supervisory and Evaluation Committee (SEC) comprising representatives from
MAWD and other ministries and the executing agencies. Project evaluation
would be a continuing process, to be carried out by both provincial staff and
independently by MAWD's Planning Unit, which would be responsible also for a
final evaluation of the Project.
B. Detailed Features
Extension and Training
4.04      Funding under the Project would aim at enhancing the effectiveness
and credibility of the extension service in Southern Province, and make
existing as well as newly generated technical packages and research findings
available to a wider cross section of the farming population, particularly
the traditional sector which so far has had only limited access to production
accelerating and supporting services. The extension service would be reorgan-
ized along the lines of the 'training and visit system (which is also being
applied under the Eastern Province Project), suitably modified to take account
of local conditions. The aim would be to provide contact farmers with tech-
nical advice through on-farm adaptive research and regular visits from village
level extension workers (VEWs), who would operate on a schedule of regular
fortnightly visits to about 8-10 groups of contact farmers, with each group
containing 10-15 farmers. These contact farmers in turn would pass extension
advice to neighbors. The activities of VEWs would be supervised by experienced,
certificate-level staff, each of whom would supervise about 8-10 VEWs, meeting
with them at least twice monthly for training and supervision. These super-
visors would meet at least once a month, for training and supervision, with
the DAO and his support staff. In addition to receiving training through this
system of regular meetings, an upgraded program of in-service training by
provincial specialists and staff of the Farm Institutes and the FTCs would
be developed. The detailed Project investments within this component are
discussed below.
4.05      Staffing.  The costs of employing 48 incremental extension staff
plus night and travel allowances for both existing and new staff would be
financed under the Project. Two additional professional staff, both of whom
would need to be internationally-recruited, would be employed. A Provincial
Extension Management Officer, with previous field experience in the operation
of the training and visit system, would assist the PAO in the detailed planning
and implementation of the proposed reorganization, and a Provincial Farm
Management Officer would expand the collection and analysis of farm management
data, strengthen the link between research and extension in the Province,
organize on-farm demonstrations, and assist in training of extension staff.
Together with the Provincial Extension and Training Officer, they would
establish district training teams to reorganize the service into a system
under which VEWs, trained by specialist staff, would meet fortnightly with
contact farmers (para 4.06). GRZ would be required to employ the Exten-
sion Management Officer as a condition of credit effectiveness and the
Provincial Farm Management Officer by July 1, 1982 and to provide qualified
local deputies for them if expatriates are recruited, and assurances to this



- 26 -
effect were obtained during negotiations. Suitable terms of reference
for the two internationally-recruited staff were agreed during negotiations.
4.06      Training.  To broaden the scope of the extension service to cater
for all farmers, including male and female-headed smallholder families,
urgent attention would be given to evolving recommendations which are rele-
vant and practical to the farmers and groups of farmers, and to training
extension staff. VEWs would be trained by district training teams (based at
FTCs), and by the DAO and district specialist officers during monthly meetings
(on pay day) at the District's FTC. One training session per month would be
held for each station supervisor and his subordinate camp staff (para 3.10).
In addition, 6-month induction courses would be organized for Commodity
Demonstrators, to raise their effectiveness to that of Agricultural Assistants.
This would entail specialized subject matter training in the form of lectures,
symposia, formal courses and exchange visits to other provinces and/or projects.
4.07      Infrastructure.  To enable VEWs and their supervisors to be posted
where needed, the number of agricultural stations would be increased by two,
from the present 29 to 31 staffed stations, while the number of agricultural
camps would be increased from 146 presently staffed camps to 194. The latter
would be achieved by the end of PY 5, by staffing and rehabilitating housing
and facilities at up to 27 presently vacant camps, and by establishing 21 new
camps in areas where effective service to substantial numbers of farmers
cannot be provided from existing camps. Up to 30 new staff houses and 2
offices, complete with water supply and sanitary conveniences would be con-
structed. About 127 existing sub-standard houses would be renovated, and
about 30 shallow wells would be constructed at camps which do not presently
have adequate water supplies. Sixty existing wells would be repaired and
fifty pit latrines would be constructed. The sites for these infrastructural
investments have all been provisionally identified by the PAO. However,
vacant camps would be rehabilitated and new camps established only after field
data on numbers of villages and farming households, cultivated area, locations,
etc., which the PAO considers would justify the related investments, would
have been collected. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that such
field data and justification would be provided to the Association for comment,
prior to tenders being called. The essential requirements would be a local
target group of at least 250 smallholders. Project costs would also include
the costs of maintaining the facilities over the Project period.
4.08      Vehicles.  It is crucial to the success of the training and visit
system that VEWs, supervisors, and Provincial and District staff be mobile.
A total of 16 four-wheel drive vehicles, 31 motorcycles, and 2 mobile kitchens
for home economics extension programs would be purchased under the Project.
The Project would also finance the cost of purchase of spare parts for all
these vehicles, plus spare parts required to rehabilitate 9 DOA vehicles
presently laid up, and their estimated costs of operation over the Project
period. Bicycles for VEWs have already been provided by a bilateral donor.



- 27 -
Livestock Development
4.09      Animal Husbandry.  The Project would provide for strengthening the
animal husbandry extension service of the DOA so that measures to improve!
herd management and animal nutrition could be introduced in support of greater
commercialization of the herds of traditional cattle raisers and greater
integration of crop production practices with livestock husbandry practices.
Use of manure for fertilizer, the availability of crop residues for stock
feed, and the importance of maintaining a herd as a continuing source of
draft animals are some of the linkages in a typical crop/livestock operation.
The funding provided under the Agricultural Extension and Training component
would cover this operation.
4.10      Animal Health.  The Project would strengthen the capability of
the Veterinary Service to carry out effective control of the most serious
animal diseases and to take measures to prevent entry of Foot-and-Mouth
Disease into the Province. Existing vaccination and treatment programs
in the major diseases would be upgraded and broadened as a result of the
improvement of the veterinary service. The Project would provide for:
(a) vaccination programs and immunization campaigns against the
major diseases affecting livestock in the Province;
(b) upgrading 19 existing veterinary stations to sub-centers
for the distribution of vaccines and drugs and for supervision
of the field activities of three or four veterinary camps
under the control of each station - by purchase of a motorcycle
and a refrigerator for each sub-center, vehicles at District
level, and trucks to service and deliver veterinary supplies
and chemicals to sub-centers and to dip locations;
(c) filling the sub-center posts with suitable VAs and SVAs;
(d) renovation of 40 existing crush pens, construction of
40 additional crushes, construction of 25 new dips and
rehabilitation of 25 dips presently in various stages of
construction, and funds for the first fillings of acaracides.
A revolving fund for future procurement of acaracides would
be set up with dipping fees.
4.11      Tsetse Control.  The Project would finance strengthening of the
tsetse control service in Gwembe District to improve fly control in the
southern and central areas of the District (para 3.09). The fly barriers in
the previously tsetse free areas were breached during past border hostilities
and pockets of fly infestation have been identified in settled agricultural
areas with relatively high cattle population. Project funds would provide for
additional personnel, renovation of old camp buildings and construction of two
new houses, and purchase of vehicles, tractors, trucks and camp equipment.



- 28 -
Input Supply and Distribution
4.12      Expansion of Storage Capacity.  The Project would finance the
construction for SPCMU of 60 storage sheds providing storage capacity for
a total of 12,000 tons of inputs. These stores would expand the number of
input stores from the 88 existing at present to 148. Where possible, they
would be sited so that farmers would not be more than 7 to 8km from a store
and could therefore obtain their requirements more readily. The stores
would be basically of two types: a 150-ton capacity structure sufficient for
3,000 x 50 kg bags; and a 250-ton capacity structure sufficient for 5,000 bags.
These stores, together with existing ones, would provide sufficient capacity
to handle about 50% of the projected fertilizer and seed throughput in
Year 7 of Project development. SPCMU would determine the location of the
stores, taking into consideration the spacing requirements of input distribu-
tion points and dry season accessibility for large trucks.
4.13      Financing of Agricultural Inputs.  The Project would finance the
purchase by SPCMU, in each year of the Project, of the incremental fertilizer,
seed, and pesticide needs of smallholders, which are estimated to total K 1.5
million (at January 1981 prices). This would be the maximum incremental
demand achieved within the Project period above base level input expenditures
of K 16 million per annum (at January 1981 prices).
4.14      Training of Managers.  The Project would finance the training of
60 rural store managers in the first three years of the Project period, to
enable them to successfully operate and manage stores with proper accounting
procedures, inventory control, and forward ordering.
Produce Storage
4.15      The Project would finance the construction for SPCMU of six hard
standings at two sites along the line-of-rail at or near Chisekesi and Kalomo,
and six hard standings at two sites in the production areas at Mapanza and
Chitongo. These would add a total of 24,000 tons to system storage capacity
and would be used to protect marketed grains and other commodities for periods
between harvest and consumption lasting up to about eight months. The Project
would also finance, for each new site, electrical facilities and mechanical
equipment for handling bagged grain, ancillary facilities comprising site
roads, fencing, water supply, offices, and staff housing, and the training of
a manager, grain supervisor, mechanic, and two clerks. In addition, the
Project would provide about 20 man months of short-term consultancy from
individuals or firms who could assist SPCMU with its storage operations and
related staff training.
4.16      Although existing produce storage facilities are inadequate, the
large CIDA-assisted program to increase storage facilities with 80,000 tons
of closed shed capacity, which is about to begin, will both greatly extend
storage capacity and will provide a more cost efficient mode for longer
term storage (nine months and longer). The Project's storage component



- 29 -
extends the systems  storage capacity closer to the production areas, thereby
expediting harvest deliveries; it thus caters essentially for produce storage
needs in areas that would still be poorly served by the system even after the
CIDA program is completed. It also caters for the storage needs of initial
incremental production under the Project. The choice of hard standings fills
a gap in system needs for shorter term storage up to about PY 10.
Credit Development
4.17      Strengthening SPCMU.  Credit activities at the SPCMU Headquarters
are presently part of the duties of its Department of Accounting. With the
expected expansion in credit activities, the Accounting Department and its
Chief Accountant will find it difficult to cope with the additional volume of
credit work and the associated responsibilities. The Project will therefore
assist SPCMU in setting up a new Department of Credit to administer SPCMU"s
credit program. This will involve creation of several new staff positions:
at Headquarters, a Credit Manager, two Credit Officers, an Accounts Clerk, and
a Secretary; and at District level, five Credit Assistants. Suitable terms of
reference for the Credit Manager were agreed during negotiations.
4.18      One of the reasons for the unsatisfactory record of credit adminis-
tration in recent years, as the volume of credit kept on expanding, was the
lack of adequate training programs to equip operational staff to carry out
their functions effectively. The Project would provide for a one-month course
of training in credit management at the Cooperative College in Lusaka, for
each of the SPCMU District Managers in Year 1 followed by another course in
Year 2. Similar training would be afforded to the Credit Assistants with
courses lasting for about a month.
4.19      A training program would also be designed to provide society Managers
and board members in the case of multi-purpose cooperative societies (MPCSs),
and Board members only in the case of primary societies (PSs), with the
necessary background to efficiently manage loan processing, recovery and
accounting. Up to 35 MPCS managers would attend a 12-week course at the
Cooperative College, Lusaka. Two Board members from each PS and one from each
MPCS totalling 75 members in all would receive a month-s training, broken into
two sessions over two years, at the Kabulamwanda Cooperative Training Centre
in Namwala District. No funds have been provided for technical assistance
because the Swedish International Development Agency has undertaken to provide
technical assistance to SPCMU covering cooperative and credit affairs. This
assistance would take the form of two expatriate advisers providing on-the-spot
help in Choma and at training facilities in Lusaka. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that this or equivalent assistance would be available to
SPCMU not later than June 30, 1982.
4.20      The Project would provide for the purchase of vehicles (including
operating costs) and office equipment to ensure the smooth functioning of
SPCMU's expanded credit service. A pick-up would be provided for the use of



- 30 -
the Credit Manager and Credit Officers at the head office in Choma, to facil-
itate communications with district offices. The five Credit Assistants in the
district would be provided with motorcycles (each District Manager is already
in possession of a vehicle). Office equipment, typewriter, calculators and
furniture would be provided to the head office, and simple calculators and
furniture to the district offices.
4.21      Incremental Credit.  The Project would enable SPCMU, through the
procurement of inputs (para. 4.13), to provide up to K700,000 worth of inputs
on credit to member societies. The Project would also provide KO.4 million
directly to ZADB for onlending to individuals and group borrowers other than
cooperatives affiliated with SPCMU. The credits would be available mainly for
seasonal inputs, without downpayment. In 1980/81, SPCMUTs supply of funds was
limited to K 500,000 and the 5,000 loan applicants were effectively rationed
to a loan of K 100 each, far below their needs, which would have totalled
easily K 1.0 million for seasonal inputs alone. Since demand for seasonal
inputs by smallholders over PYs 3-5 is expected to increase by K 1.5 million
(para 4.13), involving potential credit sales of K 0.5 million, unsatisfied
demand for seasonal credit by PY 5 could reach $1.0 million for SPCMU alone.
It would be desirable on other grounds, however, for SPCM'U and ZADB to plan
only a relatively slow expansion of their credit activities during the Project
period.
4.22      Credit administration in the past has been unsatisfactory.  SPCMU-s
member societies have failed to exercise their responsibility of selecting
borrowers for SPCMU, and credit funds from AFC and/or related seasonal inputs
have often arrived too late in the planting season. As a result, recovery
rates have deteriorated, thus helping to dry up the amounts of credit funds
available. It is essential, therefore, that the recovery of credit improves
from its present levels (42% in 1979/80 for SPCMU, down from 92% in 1976/77
and 99% in 1975/76) before any expansion in lending takes place. Most of the
required improvements in loan recovery can be achieved with the improvements
to staff and other resources provided by the first part of this component and
by reasonable modifications to lending policies and collection procedures. A
necessary condition for these improvements and policy changes to work, however,
is acceptance by lenders, borrowers, and the responsible authorities that
funds disbursed in the name of credit have to be recovered, and that recovery
rates should return to at least 95%, allowing for a reasonable bad debt
situation of not more than 5%. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that SPCMU would extend credit in kind under the Project exclusively to
cooperative societies that had established annual recovery rates of at
least 95%, achieved initially in respect of existing credit funds and sub-
sequently in respect of Project funds also, unless a society can provide
evidence of unusual circumstances affecting farmers ability to repay loans.
In the case of ZADB, which will take over AFC, the main problem will be to
reverse AFC's deteriorating financial performance (para. 2.13), which is fast
reducing the amount of credit available to its clients in the Province.



- 31 -
4.23      The present interest rate structure does not permit an adequate
spread for either AFC or SPCMU to cover their costs of credit operations
(including provision for bad debts). In the same way as was agreed for the
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project (para 2.14), assurances were
obtained during negotiations that ZADB management would draw up a 5-year plan
of its operating policies, procedures, and financing to be presented to the
Association by March 31, 1982. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations
that SPCMU and ZADB would progressively raise their interest rates so that by
March 31, 1984 these would be sufficient to cover their costs of funds,
operating costs (after allowance for any GRZ subsidy) and reasonable provision
for bad debts, and provide a satisfactory level of net income from credit
operations, and that GRZ would take all measures necessary to revise the
maximum interest rate in order that SPCMU and ZADB could carry out this
obligation.
Project Administration
4.24      The Project would strengthen the ability of the office of the PPS
for the Southern Province to plan, coordinate, and monitor Project implemen-
tation by financing the employment of a Senior Planning Officer and an Accoun-
tant (both of whom would need to be internationally-recruited), housing and
transport costs for these staff, and the employment of a research officer for
on-going Project evaluation; two junior Planning Officers as deputies, four
Accounts Assistants and two Accounts Clerks, all of whom would be recruited
locally. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ would appoint
qualified deputies to the Senior Planning Officer and Accountant, respectively
if these positions are filled by expatriates.
4.25      To assist the PPS in his task of coordinating the various executing
agencies and of reviewing their work, GRZ would appoint a Supervisory and
Evaluation Committee (SEC) of its officers and other officials having appro-
priate responsibilities in Southern Province. The SEC, under the chairmanship
of the PPS, would not involve itself, however, in the day-to-day manage-
ment of the Project, which would be the responsibility of the provincial
technical staff (PAO, PVO, etc.) headed by the PPS. The SEC would direct key
Project officials to attend its meetings, as required. Establishment of SEC
under agreed terms of reference would be a condition of Project effectivensss.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GRZ would constitute such a
committee, and its terms of reference and membership were also agreed during
negotiations.



- 32 -
C. Project Costs
4.26      The total cost of the Project is estimated at K 19.6 million (US$24.6
million), of which US$11.2 million (46%) represent the foreign exchange costs.
These costs include about K 0.6 million of taxes and duties, comprised mainly
of sales taxes on petroleum products and building materials. The phasing of
Project costs is given in Annex 1, Table T-4, and costs for each of the com-
ponents are detailed in Annex 1, Tables T-5 through T-10. Project costs are
summarized below:
Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  FE  Cost
------K  000 ----- US$  000-----  %    %
Extension and Training         2,813  1,449  4,262  3,525  1,808  5,333  34   32
Livestock Development          1,335  1,137  2,472  1,680  1,417  3,097  46   19
Input Supply & Storage         1,212  2,252  3,464  1,507  2,826  4,333  65   26
Produce Storage                  713    772  1,485    882    974  1,856  52   11
Credit Development               568      61    624    706       77    783  10    5
Project Administration           453    576  1,029    564    724  1,288  56    8
Total Base Cost                7,089  6,247 13,336  8,864  7,826 16,690  47  100
Physical Contingencies           403    512    915    502    644  1,146  56    7
Price Contingencies            3,206  2,181  5,387  4,008  2,727  6,735  40   40
Total Project Cost            10,698  8,940 19,638 13,374 11,197 24,571  46  147
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes & duties)       10,109  8,940 19,049 12,637 11,197 23,834  47  143
Project base costs have been estimated on the basis of September 1981 constant
prices.  Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 10% on all
costs except salaries and the credit fund. Price contingencies on imported
vehicles, equipment and internationally-recruited staff and consultants have
been included at annual rates of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85 and
6% in 1986 and thereafter. In the case of local costs, price contingencies
have been included at an annual rate of 12% throughout the Project period.
Price contingencies total 40% of Project base costs.
4.27      Project costs include incremental operating expenses for extension
and training and livestock development (above the 1979 level) and Project
administration, totalling K 7.2 million (US$9.0 million equivalent), including
contingencies. After PY 5, these operating costs, exclusive of technical



- 33 -
assistance costs, would be fully met by GRZ from its recurrent budget. In
order to avoid the sudden imposition of these costs on the recurrent budget in
PY 6, assurances were obtained during negotiations that these costs would be
progressively transferred from the GRZ development budget to the recurrent
budget during PY2-PY5. Annex 1, Table T-11, indicates the proposed phasing of
this transfer. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ would
maintain its non-incremental recurrent expenditures on MAWD's services in the
Southern Province at levels not below those of recent years, in real terms.
Moreover, IDA disbursements against salaries and wages of incremental local
staff and incremental vehicle operating costs would be on a declining basis
(para. 4.32).
D. Financing
4.28      The financing of Project costs, net of taxes and duties, would be as
follows:
US$ Million             %
IDA                               18.0                 76
Government of Zambia               5.8                 24
23.8               100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$18 million would be on standard IDA terms. The
Credit would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$11.2
million) and 54% of the local costs, or about 76% of total Project costs, net
of taxes and duties. GRZ would finance the remaining US$5.8 million.
4.29      IDA funds and GRZ contributions for the extension and training,
livestock development, and project administration components (K 10.8 million,
including contingencies) would be channelled either directly to the PPS,
Southern Province, or to the Permanent Secretary, MAWD, to be subwarranted by
him to the PPS, Southern Province, and hence to the agencies responsible for
implementation. IDA funds and GRZ contributions for cooperative credit
development, construction and operation of stores and hard standings, and the
procurement of incremental fertilizer, seed and pesticide requirements (K 7.4
million including contingencies) would be channelled by GRZ to SPCMU as a
loan. IDA funds and GRZ contributions for training assistance to SPCMU (K 0.2
million including contingencies) would be channelled by GRZ to SPCMU on a
grant basis. It would be a condition for credit effectiveness that GRZ would
have reached a financing agreement with SPCMU, satisfactory to the Association,
stipulating the conditions and terms for such a loan and grant. IDA Funds and
GRZ contributions for the incremental credit fund (K 0.5 million including
contingencies) would be channelled by GRZ to ZADB. It would be a condition
for disbursement of IDA funds for this part that a financing agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, would have been reached between GRZ and ZADB.
Assurances on this proposed financing plan were obtained during negotiations.



- 34 -
Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the funds required for the
extension and training, livestock development, and Project administration
components would be deposited quarterly in advance by GRZ in a separate
project account controlled by the PPS, Southern Province, and that the funds
required for implementation of the other components would be made available in
a timely manner to the implementing agencies involved and deposited also in
separate accounts. Establishment of the Project Account and the initial
quarterly deposit by GRZ would be a condition for credit effectiveness.
4.30      In view of the importance to the Project of timely delivery to
farmers of adequate supplies of inputs and prompt payment by marketing
agencies to farmers for their crops, assurances were obtained from, and
agreements were reached with GRZ during negotiations that SPCMU (assurances)
and LINTCO and NAMB (agreements) would receive adequate foreign exchange and
local currency allocations to enable these organizations to effectively
discharge their input delivery and marketing functions in the Southern Pro-
vince. Agreement was also reached that, until ZADB becomes operational, GRZ
would continue to provide AFC annually with funds sufficient in real terms to
maintain at least the levels of credit that AFC supplied to smallholders both
directly and indirectly through SPCMU in the Southern Province in the 1980/81
crop season. Assurances were also obtained that (i) the Provincial Veterinary
Officer would determine and ensure that participating livestock farmers pay a
regular dipping fee adequate to sustain routine dip tank imaintenance and
replenishment of acaricides, and (ii) the fees so collected would be deposited
in an account to be administered on terms and conditions acceptable to GRZ and
the Association.
E. Procurement
4.31      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Specifically, 1/
(a)  orders for vehicles, machinery and equipment (including spare
parts) expected to cost US$100,000 and above (US$1.5 million)
would be bulked as far as practicable and would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) from suppliers
who maintain or agree to maintain in Zambia adequate after-sales
service and inventories of spare parts;
(b)  orders for vehicles, machinery and equipment estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$500,000 including
contingencies, would be procured in accordance with existing local
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association;
(c)  the construction of housing, stores, and hard standings
(US$4.2 million) would be too small and scattered to attract
international interest - the largest contract is expected to be
US$0.8. Procurement would therefore be by contracts awarded
following local competitive bidding, although foreign firms
would be entitled to compete;
1/   Unless noted otherwise, all figures in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 35 -
(d) the rehabilitation of extension housing (US$0.5 million) in the
Southern Province would be carried out, as far as is feasible,
by local contractors selected after local competitive bidding.
Rehabilitation work which is not suitable for contractors
would be carried out by force account by PCW;
(e) incremental requirements of fertilizer, vaccines and pesti-
cides (US$2.6 million) would be bulked with overall national
requirements, and procured by NAMB through international
competitive bidding, as at present. Incremental requirements
of seeds (US$0.3 million) would be procured by purchase from
Zambia Seed Company in accordance with present practices,
which are satisfactory;
(f) the selection and employment of personnel providing technical
assistance (US$2.1 million) would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines.
Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of
US$250,000 would be submitted to the Association for approval before bid
invitations are issued, and recommendations for contract awards would be
submitted to the Association for comment prior to award of contracts; this
would cover 70% of total procurement and some 10 contracts. In the evalua-
tion of bids for (a) above, bonafide domestic manufacturers would be awarded
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures
outlined above would be followed, and that all consultants would be employed
under terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association.
F. Disbursements
4.32      Disbursement would be made from the IDA Credit on the following
basis:
(a) 80% of total expenditure for civil works, including
staff housing, wells, stores, hard standings and
ancillary services, crush pens, and dip renovations
(US$5.0 million).
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for vehicles, spare parts, equipment and other materials
(US$2.2 million);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for veterinary supplies and vaccines, and incremental
fertilizer, seeds, and crop chemicals (US$3.9 million);
(d) 100% of the incremental credit funds onlent to smallholders
(US$0.6 million);



- 36 -
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures
for technical assistance and training (US$2.4 million);
(f) 55% of local costs for salaries and allowances of incremental
local professional staff and incremental vehicle operating
costs for all six Project components (US$3.0 millIon) with
disbursements on a declining scale as follows: 100% until
US$1.0 million has been disbursed, 70% until US$2.0 million
has been disbursed, 50% until US$2.5 million has been dis-
bursed; and 30% thereafter; and
(g) an unallocated amount representing physical contingencies
on the above items and transferable to them as required
(US$0.9 million).
4.33      Disbursements under (a) (except for force account), (b), (c) and (e)
would be fully documented. Disbursements against (d) would be on the basis of
certificates of expenditure signed by the General Manager of ZADB. Disburse-
ments against (a) for any work carried out by force account and against (f)
would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure signed by the PPS,
Southern Province, the General Manager of SPCMU, and the Provincial Commissioner
of Works respectively. For disbursements under (a) for force account, (d),
and (f), supporting documents would be retained for inspection by supervision
missions. Credit funds remaining at Project completion would be cancelled,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association. A schedule showing the estimated
pattern of credit disbursements is given in Annex 1, Table T-12.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.34      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate accounts
relating to expenditures under the Project would be kept by the PPS, Southern
Province and by ZADB and SPCMU, that these accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and that such audited
accounts would be submitted to the Association within six months of the end
of each financial year. The auditors would specifically review and comment
on the procedures used for control of disbursement against certificates of
expenditure. Audited accounts for SPCMU are normally produced within 6
months of the end of the financial year. ZADB, being recently established,
has not yet had to produce accounts, but AFC and CFC (the organizations that
ZADB would replace) normally produce audited accounts within 6 months of the
end of the financial year. Auditing of the accounts of all GRZ ministries
and departments is normally completed by the Auditor-General, and an audit
report submitted to Parliament.
H. Environmental Impact
4.35      For tsetse control, DDT would be used to clear small isolated
areas in Gwembe District of Southern Province from the fly. The insecticide,



- 37 -
applied with back pack sprayers at extremely low rates, would be sprayed
on trunks of trees in underpopulated bush areas. No negative impact is
anticipated since spraying would be carefully monitored and limited to areas
where fly infestation has been observed. Use of back pack sprayers rather
than extensive aerial spraying would make it possible to keep pesticide within
prescribed areas. Samples of soil and water from streams would be taken
regularly by Tsetse Control staff for analysis at Mount Makulu.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Reporting
5.01      Overall responsibility for Project planning, budgeting, monitoring
and reporting would rest with the PPS for the Southern Province (para 2.08),
whose office would be strengthened under the Project by the provision of a
Senior Planning Officer (with supporting planning staff) and an Accountant
(with supporting accounts staff) (para 4.24). The PPS would be assisted by
the SEC, whose functions would include reviewing and coordinating the budgets
and work plans prior to their approval by the PPS. Annual plans and costings
for implementation of Project components on a quarterly basis would be drawn
up by the various implementing agencies involved and submitted to the PPS
before May 31 to be reviewed and consolidated by the Senior Planning Officer
into a proposed program for the Project. The Accountant would at the same
time draw up a consolidated budget request, which would be submitted to
the PPS. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the preparation of
annual programs and the submission of budget requests would be completed by
June 30 1/ prior to the year to which they apply in accordance with normal GRZ
timing, and that the proposed annual program and budget request would be sent
to the Association for comment immediately after they have been approved.
Except for funds required for parastatal and cooperative union investments
(which, following normal GRZ procedures, would be accounted for under Loans
and Investments), funds either would be provided to the Permanent Secretary
MAWD, and then sub-warranted by him to the PPS, Southern Province, or would be
provided more directly to the PPS.
5.02      The Senior Planning Officer would, as a matter of priority, insti-
tute a quarterly system of reporting by implementing agencies to the PPS,
similar to the system presently in use, but more explicitly relating progress
to the agreed annual work program. These reports would enable both the PPS
and the SEC to monitor progress, and to identify bottlenecks and constraints
as a prelude to initiating remedial action. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these reports would be consolidated into an overall quarterly
progress report for the Project as a whole, which, together with data provided
by the Accountant on Project expenditures and disbursements, would be sent to
the Association to arrive not later than two months after the end of the
quarter to which they refer.
1/   In PYI a supplementary budget would be required since the fiscal year
begins in January and the Project would become effective before June 1982.



- 38 -
B. Project Implementation
5.03      The Project would be implemented entirely through existing organi-
zations, strengthened under the Project as necessary. The assignment of
implementation responsibilities for the various components of the Project
would be in accordance with existing institutional arrangements. A chart
showing the anticipated scheduling of implementation of the various compo-
nents is at Annex 1, Chart C-1. The organizational arrangements for the
implementation of each component would be as outlined below and illustrated
in Annex 1, Chart C-2.
5.04      Agricultural Extension.  The Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO)
would have overall responsibility for the implementation of this component.
Direct responsibility for the detailed planning of the reorganization of
extension services would lie with the Provincial Extension Management Officer
(PEMO) financed under the Project. He would work closely with the Provincial
Extension and Training Officer, and through him, with the District Agricultural
Officers (DAOs) in drawing up, for each district, detailed plans for the
construction and renovation of housing and other infrastructure, allocation
of vehicles, reassignment of staff and the introduction of the proposed work
programming and supervision arrangements.  Implementation of the reorgani-
zation in ea-ch district would be the responsibility of the DAOs who manage
the extension services in their districts. However, the PEMO would assist the
DAOs as necessary to resolve problems that arise in the course of reorganiza-
tion. The internationally recruited Provincial Farm Management Officer (PFMO)
would be responsible for improvement of farm management data, helping to
define the agricultural extension program content and would provide for
liaision between research, extension and the farmer. The PEMO and PFMO,
together with the existing Provincial Extension Training Officer, would have
responsibility for planning and implementing improved staff training programs.
They would work closely in this with the heads of the Farm Institute and
Farmer Training Centers in the Province, and with training specialists in MAWD
headquarters. MAWD would recruit the PEMO and the PFMO and post them to
Southern Province.
5.05      The PCW would have responsibility for drawing up tender documents,
for administering the tendering process and for the supervision of construc-
tion through his District Building Officers. In the case of rehabilitation,
the PCW would determine the repairs required, and would arrange for the work
required to be carried out, either by contractors if this is feasible, or by
force account. The Provincial Water Engineer would be responsible for imple-
menting the proposed program of borehole construction at agricultural camps
by force account through existing drilling teams.
Livestock Development
5.06      Implementation of the animal husbandry part of the Project would be
the responsibility of the PAO working through the DAOs who would coordinate
the program within each district. The VEWs are trained to provide information
and general support for both crops and livestock husbandry. The Provincial



- 39 -
Veterinary Service plans to have the Veterinary Officers (VOs) and Senior
Veterinary Assistants (SVAs) stationed at camps and sub-centers provide tech-
nical support and supervision for the village extension workers. Combining
the efforts of these supporting services would make it possible to establish
a farming systems approach for smallholder crop farmers, the majority of whom
keep cattle (para. 4.09).
5.07      Implementation of the animal health and tsetse control part of the
Project would be the responsibility of the PVO working through the District
Livestock Officers (DLOs) who would coordinate the programs within each dis-
trict. The PVO would make frequent visits to each district to monitor progress
and would make field visits together with District Officers. VAs at field
level would place requisitions for vaccines and supplies according to the!
number of cattle held by farmers. Monthly supplies would be ordered by the
PVO and would be distributed through the DLOs and VAs at sub-center level. The
major responsibility for supervision at field level would rest with the DLO but
the VAs and SVAs selected for the sub-centers would also monitor and check the
program of the VAs in their respective areas. The VAs would also assist in
identifying compatible farmer groups interested in constructing dips and would
be responsible for dip tank solution testing. The PVO would be responsible
for determining an adequate level of dipping fee to enable this source of
revenue to finance dip tank maintenance and acaricides.
5.08      Input Delivery.  SPCMU (paras 2.15-2.17) would be responsible for
the construction of the improved storage under the Project. SPCMU would
construct these stores in accordance with NAMB-s designs, already approved
by the Bank, and with the help of the PCW, as required, would draw up tender
documents, administer the teilder process and supervise construction by local
contractors. SPCMUYs Marketing Department would purchase, distribute to rural
depots, and sell to farmers the fertilizer, seeds and insecticides financed
under the Project. The Supplies Manager of the Marketing Department would
provide technical supervision of all input storage operation through super-
vision of his headquarters staff in Choma and of input store managers.
5.09      Produce Marketing and Storage.  The SPCMU would be responsible for
selecting the storage sites, organizing construction of the hard standings
and ancillary facilities, procuring the necessary equipment, organizing the
training of staff, and arranging for the future maintenance of facilities.
SPCMU would construct houses and other ancillary storage facilities in accor-
dance with PCW-s designs and hard standings in accordance with NAMB's designs,
and with the help of the PCW, as required, would draw up tender documents,
administer the tender process, and supervise construction by local contractors.
Crops would be purchased from farmers by SPCMU's Marketing Department for
resale to millers and consumers in the Province and to NAMB. The Produce
Manager of the Marketing Department would provide technical supervision of
SPCMU's produce storage operations through supervision of his headquarters
staff in Choma and of storage depot managers. The General Manager would
arrange for the early appointment of consultants to address key weaknesses
in SPCMU's ability to remedy its storage and related staff training needs.



- 40 -
5.10      Agricultural Credit.  The General Manager of SPCMU (para 2.17)
with the assistance of DCM, would be responsible for the recruitment of
the manager of the Credit Department financed under the Project. The latter
would be responsible for the overall implementation of the measures to
strengthen SPCMU's credit scheme, including the provision of credit in kind to
primary cooperatives and individual members. The General Manager of ZADB
(para 2.11) would be responsible for disbursement of the Project's credit
funds to individual farmers or groups other than members of cooperative
societies affiliated to SPCMU in the Province.
C. Staffing
5.11      The Project would as far as possible utilize existing staff, endow
them with active and meaningful roles and with supporting investments and
resources and thus render productive an important but underutilized resource.
Existing staff would be supplemented by a total of 4 internationally-recruited
staff: two for the Extension and Training component (para 4.05), and two for
Project Administration (paras 4.24, 4.25) - who would be financed under the
Project for a total of 20 man-years, at an average cost per man-month, includ-
ing salary, benefits and local allowances, of K 6,400 (US$8,000 equivalent).
All would be employed by MAWD; the first two mentioned above would be seconded
to the PAO's office in Choma; the last two would be seconded to the PPS office
in Livingstone. In addition, the Project provides financing for about 20
months of short term consultancy, which would be at an average cost per
man-month including salaries, overhead costs, international and local travel,
and local allowances of about K 7,000 (US$8,600 equivalent). A total of about
200 incremental local staff would also be employed under the Project.
5.12      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PFMO would be
appointed before July 1982 and that the other three internationally-recruited
staff would be appointed before April 1982, that the Association would be
consulted, prior to appointment, on the suitability, in terms of qualifica-
tions and experience, of all internationally-recruited staff and any con-
sultants financed under the Project, and would also be consulted prior to the
appointment of successor staff to these positions. Assurances were also
obtained that all internationally recruited staff and any consultants would,
for the duration of the Project, be employed under terms of reference and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association, and it would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that the Senior Planning Officer, Accountant,
and the Provincial Extension Management Officer, would be appointed after
consultation with the Association on qualifications and experience. Assurances
were also obtained at negotiations that both the Research Officer and the
Credit Manager would be appointed not later than May 1, 1982 and that, in view
of their importance in Project implementation, the posts of Provincial Agri-
cultural Officer, Provincial Extension Training Officer, District Tsetse
Control Officer, and Provincial Veterinary Officer would continue to be
filled throughout the Project by qualified and experienced staff.



- 41 -
D. Evaluation
5.13      Since the Project would be only the second of its type in Zambia,
after the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project, it would be
important to monitor and evaluate closely its effects, so that the lessons
of implementation could be incorporated quickly into the similar projects
planned for other parts of the country. The evaluation of the Project's
impact and results during implementation would be carried out by staff in the
PPS's office and independently also by a Research Officer (financed under the
Project) in MAWD's Planning Unit, who would report to the SEC. This evalua-
tion exercise would consist of baseline studies, and on-going evaluation of
project interventions. The baseline studies, which would provide a point of
reference for evaluating project impact, would focus on three main issues:
the numbers and characteristics of farmers already using improved techniques,
the yields and incomes obtained from the various crops and livestock herds,
under both traditional and improved production methods, and the cropping
patterns and animal husbandry practices of smallholders in the Southern
Province. The annual evaluation of the effects of Project interventions
(particularly the reorganization of the extension service) would bring to
the attention of the regional authorities and the SEC important trends and
developing problems; it would also include ad-hoc study of topics of impor-
tance either for this Project or for preparation of future phases. Possible
subjects for examination would be the nutritional status of the population,
and the impact of extension on female-headed households. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations via a supplemental letter that the SEC would
approve the terms of reference of the Research Officer for the design and
planning of the evaluation exercise and would review the results. Assurances
were also obtained at negotiations that, within six months of the completion
of disbursements, GRZ would prepare, taking into account the findings of the
evaluation exercise, and submit to the Association a Project Completion
Report, analyzing the implementation of the Project and its impact in relation
to its objectives. This would be the responsibility of MAWD-s Planning
Unit.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Technical Packages and Yields
6.01      The target group for the Project's extension component comprises;
farmers who presently grow crops largely for meeting subsistence needs.
Available data suggest that handcultivators in the Gwembe valley normally
require additional, off-farm income to enable them to meet subsistence require-
ments; other farmers within the target group, and particularly those who own
one or more spans of draught oxen are able during good years to market sur-
pluses of maize and of cash crops, especially cotton. The staple food in the



- 42 -
Project area is local maize on the Plateau and sorghum plus local maize in
the Gwembe valley. These cereals are commonly interplanted with minor crops.
Except for the about 6,000 farmers who do not own or have no access to draught
animals and who use simple handtools, land preparation, seeding and weeding
are carried out by using oxen and ox-drawn implements. Groundnuts also
represent an important component of the local diet and based on family size
data for the Project and data from a 1972 National Food Consumption Survey,
farmers would need to cultivate from 1.1 to 1.4 ha of local maize and about
one-third of a hectare of groundnuts to satisfy family subsistence requirements.
6.02      Generalized technical packages for maize, sunflower, groundnuts and
cotton are available for Southern Province. In addition, the Province has a
relative advantage through the long tradition of market-oriented, commercial
farming. Since Independence, the Province has on average produced 35% of the
country's marketed maize and emergent and small-scale commercial farmers play
an increasing role in the production of this marketed surplus. The same is
the case with cotton production which has shown significant increases during
the past few years. 1/ These developments are an illustration of responsive-
ness of the farmers to improved prices and services and the productive poten-
tial of the Province. However, the target group, because of its greater
distance from the line-of-rail, has not shared in these developments as much
as other farmers in Southern Province. One of the Project's major aims,
therefore, is to divulge to smallholders the available technical know-how
and proven packages. Meanwhile, research programs now being formulated (para
1.13) would aim for further refinement of technical packages for individual
crops and farming systems, tailored to specific locations and groups of
farmers. Improved techniques presently available and estimated yield levels
resulting from their adoption for each of the major crops by category of
farmer are given in Annex 1, Tables T-14 to T-15 and are reviewed below. It
is assumed that farmers adopt the improved technical packages and achieve the
projected yield increases within one season of effective contact.
6.03      Maize.  This crop, grown by all categories of farmers, although to a
lesser extent in the Gwembe valley, occupies between 70% and 85% of the total
cropped area. Local maize varieties are grown for on-farm consumption and
it is not unusual for farmers to use chemical fertilizer on some or all of
the local maize they grow. NAMB/SPCMU depots are the distribution centers for
the recommended maize hybrid SR 52 and the second choice hybrid ZH1. These
hybrids are capable of producing high yields under average to good rainfall
with management which provides for timely land preparation and planting,
proper fertilization, and weed control. However, with a relatively short
growing season, particularly in the southern and eastern portions of the
Province, and greater drought risk compared to other provinces, these long
maturing hybrids (170 days) are not optimal for all of Southern Province and
future maize production would benefit (a) from the insistence of the extension
staff on timely land preparation and planting, and (b) for future phases, from
the development and introduction of early maturing, high yielding varieties.
1/   Zambia's total production of seed cotton, which was 3.9 million kg in
1975/76, rose to 24 million kg in 1979/80 when the production for
Southern Province reached 7 million kg.



- 43 -
Present yields for local maize range from 630kg/ha (unfertilized) to 1,400kg/ha
(with 75kg of ammonium nitrate). Hybrid maize yields of up to 2,500kg/ha are
obtained by the better farmers using oxen and 75kg each of basal and topdress-
ing fertilizer, together with DDT (10 kg/ha) to control pests. In the analysis
of this Project, local maize yields have been projected at 900kg/ha for hand
cultivators to 2,200kg/ha for the more advanced smallholder farmers on the
Plateau; projected hybrid maize yields would range from about 2,000kg/ha to
3,200kg/ha as a result of heavier fertilizer applications and better pest and
weed control.
6.04      Sorghum.  This crop, together with millet, is the traditional staple
food under the high temperature and low rainfall conditions of Gwembe valley,
and these crops are frequently grown in association with beans. The Govern-
ment's drive to increase maize production, along with attractive producer
prices and the desirability of maize as a food has led to an increase in the
Gwembe valley of the area under maize. Increased research efforts on the
genetic improvement of sorghum and optimal fertilizer application are needed to
dramatically improve yields and make it more competitive with maize . Present
unfertilized yields range from 500 to 900kg per hectare. In the analysis of
this Project, yields have been projected to range from 650kg/ha to 1,000kg/ha.
6.05      Sunflower.  This relatively new cash crop, grown by the more advanced
smallholders and emergent farmers, is a comparatively undemanding crop with a
shorter growing period (about 140 days) than most other main crops. Although
it can be planted after the main crops have been sown, timely planting of
sunflower is also an important factor to ensure profitable yields. Present
low yields (500kg/ha) are due also to the continuous use of farmer-grown seed
of the composites now available. The projected yields obtained with increasing
amounts of basal fertilizer vary from 400-500kg for the small and intermediate
farmers, to 1,000kg/ha for the most advanced farmer category in the target
group (C-farmers) who would use the recommended Black Russian Giant variety.
6.06      Groundnuts, although an important item in the diet of rural people,
are grown on only a limited scale by most smallholders. It is a labor-intensive
crop which is largely cared for by women and is often grown in association with
other subsistence crops. Most common varieties are the genetically impure
Natal Common (110-120 day growing period), and local varieties. Almost without
exception, farmers use seed kept from the previous harvest and plant populations
are sub-optimal. Present yields are extremely low: 160-320kg/ha. Projected
yields, used in the analysis of this Project, range from 350-450kg/ha.
6.07      Cotton.  About 75% of the provincial crop (7 million kg of seed
cotton in 1979/80) is grown in the Gwembe valley by traditional farmers and
the area and number of farmers who grow cotton is increasing rapidly. Cotton
production has also begun to increase at a less rapid rate in parts of the
Mazabuka district. A good cotton crop may be obtained when other (grain) crops
fail due to poor rainfall. The guaranteed cash income obtainable by farmers
who follow the technical recommendations extended to them together with credit
for seed and spraying materials in one "package", explains why in some areas
farmers tend to go for cotton monoculture, at the expense of sorghum and maize.
The majority of farmers use no fertilizer but regular spraying (mostly by
knapsack sprayers) is done by most if not all of them. More breeding work is



- 44 -
required with the impure Chilala and Chureza varieties to improve available
genetic material. A LINTCO cotton development project for Central and Southern
Province is under implementation with assistance from the EEC; one of the
objectives of this Project is to raise the average cotton yield from 750kg/ha
to 1,260kg/ha. For Project analysis, present yields are from 600 to 750kg/ha
and future yields from 1,000 to 1,300kg/ha of seed cotton (with basal dressing).
6.08      Soybean.  Largely in order to overcome chronic shortages in stock-
feed, commercial farmers owning livestock first began growing soybeans in
1974. Lately, the crop is gaining some popularity among smallholders but the
single largest producer in Southern Province is Nakambala Sugar Estate near
Mazabuka, and it is expected that it would be adopted under the Project by the
more advanced (Category C) farmers. The crop, which requires inoculation and
at least some fertilization, can be planted until late December and its labor
requirements therefore do not clash with those of maize. For Project analysis
purposes, present yield is 600kg/ha, and projected yield is 1,100 kg/ha.
B. Cropping Patterns
6.09      There is no apparent scarcity of arable land in most parts of the
Province, except for certain areas along the line-of-rail, in Mazabuka and Monze
districts. In the drier and hotter Gwembe valley, sorghum and millet are the
staple food crops taking precedence over all other crops, but as noted earlier,
maize and cotton are on the increase. Among the more progressive farmers and
those smallholders who have been in close contact with the area's commercial
farmers, however, it is believed that to be able to practice winterploughing
and to avoid continuous cropping (of maize) more land is needed. Yet, there
are many examples of farmers who have overextended themselves by planting more
land than they can handle with their family labor and the implements for
draught power available to them. This has resulted in poor, weedy crops with
low yields, particularly in below-average rainfall years. Analysis of family
composition by farmer category, of crop calendars and labor inputs for the
major crops, and of labor inputs by month indicates that, based on the theore-
tically available family labor, there would be no room for further expansion of
the cultivated area by each category of farmers, except for the C-category of
farmers (those who own more than two pairs of oxen). This latter category of
farmers will during peak periods employ casual labor, particularly for weeding
and harvesting. For the hand cultivators and those who depend on borrowed or
hired oxen (H and A categories of farmers) for land preparation, the bottle-
neck is the amount of land which can be prepared and planted during the actual
(optimum) planting season. In the estimation of the effects of the introduc-
tion of improved technical packages on cropping patterns it has been assumed
that the area of hybrid maize, cotton, sunflower and soybean would be cul-
tivated in addition to the family subsistence crops and that subsistence
production would be maintained.



- 45 -
C. Production Increases
Crops
6.10      Increases in crop production under the Project would result from
the dissemination to and adoption by farmers of improved technical packages.
Each village level extension worker would be in direct contact with about
120 contact farmers, and through them, in indirect contact with a further 120
farmers. It is estimated that over a ten-year period, about 60% of all these
contact farmers would adopt the technical packages recommended by the exten-
sion service. It is expected that the effects of the reorganized and improved
extension services would not be felt until after the second project year, and
Annex 1 Table T-16 provides details on projected incremental production. In
summary, the changes in crop production are expected to be:
PY6         PY15 and onwards
(full development)
Number of Innovators                      6,394              26,930
Incremental Production (m. tons)
local maize                          1,188               5,003
hybrid maize                        18,731              86,356
sunflower                              718               3,023
groundnuts                             456               1,920
sorghum/millet                         114                 482
cotton                                 444               1,871
soybeans                                97                 408
Livestock
6.11      Increased production resulting from better animal husbandry practices
and improved animal health cannot be precisely estimated. Limited disease
control and poor support of livestock extension services are at present con-
tributing factors to a high (22%) calf mortality which combined with a low
(50%) calving rate results in a very low (39%) reproductive rate, producing a
financially unsatisfactory 5% offtake.  This generally poor performance would
be improved by providing for a comprehensive disease prevention and control
program including regular dipping for tick-borne diseases and support of a
livestock extension program which would focus on improving present herd manage-
ment practices. It is expected that with the improved services an increase of
at least 3% in the traditional herd's reproductive rate would be achieved by
Year 8. In addition, calf mortality would be reduced from 22% to 18% over the
same period, and available offtake would increase from about 5% to 8% by Year
10. The tsetse control program in the Gwembe district would reduce the threat
of trypanosomiasis to the district's cattle population (75,000 head) and result
in lowering the mortality rate from the disease.



- 46 -
6.12      The improved coefficients would have the effect of increasing the
number of oxen that theoretically would be available to crop producers, either
retained on the farm or for sale by about 16,000. In time, the improved
health and management practices would result in larger and sturdier draft
animals. Increases in annual production of all cattle available for sale
would total 21,000 head by full development, assuming at least 80% of the
grown steers would be retained for work oxen, and the incremental value of
sales would total about K 3.7 million p.a. (Table T-19). The present Province-
wide estimate of land tilled by oxen is for 75,000 teams (150,000 head)
plowing about 200,000ha annually, an average of 2.7ha per team of oxen. A
properly-fed healthy well-grown team should be able to cultivate a 4-ha tract
in a growing season. The increase in strength and numbers of oxen due to
Project-supported programs, assuming that about 80% of the steers would be
used, could result in an increase in land preparation of at least 22,000 ha
(13,000 steers = 6,500 teams @ 3.3ha).
D. Markets
6.13      The Project's incremental production of maize, cotton, groundnuts,
soybeans, and sunflower that are beyond subsistence requirements would be
marketed through SPCMU and LINTCO in the same way as existing crop surpluses.
6.14      Maize.  The Southern Province is at present a net exporter of maize
to the rest of Zambia, and this is expected to continue. For Zambia as a
whole, in the 1979/80 marketing season, demand for maize exceeded local supply
by about 300,000 tons (about 50% of demand), but this was a result of short-term
factors (climate, late arrival of inputs) which would not be expected to recur
regularly. In the medium- and long-term, Zambia is expected to again become
self sufficient in maize and to have exportable surpluses in some years.
Zambia's traditional export market has been and is expected to continue to be
south-west Zaire.
6.15      Cotton Liat.  As a result of the doubling of production in 1979/80,
and the limited installed processing capacity, Zambia's cotton production is
currently in excess of local demand, and the surplus has been exported at a
loss by LINTCO. There is considerable potential, however, for further expansion
of local cotton textile manufacture, since 60% of cotton fabric consumption in
Zambia is met by imports, and projects already under way will almost triple
local demand for lint during the next two years. New as well as additional
expansion plans for cotton processing are also being formulated, but are at an
early stage. The incremental production of cotton lint is therefore expected
to be absorbed locally, although some surplus for export may sporadically occur
before the planned expansion becomes operational.
6.16      Groundnuts, Sunflower and Cotton Seed.  Zambia currently meets only
about 40% of its oilseed needs from domestically produced oilseeds. The demand
for cooking oil in Zambia is estimated to be increasing at an annual rate of
at least 4%. For the foreseeable future, supply is likely to continue to



- 47 -
remain below demand. The same holds true for oilseed cake. Consequently, all
incremental production of oilseeds would be utilized domestically to replace
imports.
6.17      Sorghum/Millet and Beans.  None of these commodities is regularly
imported or exported and the incremental production would be consumed by farm
families or sold locally at uncontrolled prices. Prices of sorghum and millet
in local markets would be influenced, however, by maize prices.
6.18      Livestock Products.  Imports of beef into Zambia are currently banned
as a foreign exchange saving measure, and consumption has to be satisfied from
local production. Prior to the institution of the import ban in 1977, Zambia
imported about 40% of its requirements, and domestic production has not expanded
sufficiently since then to keep consumption at pre-ban levels. Hence, all
incremental beef production under the Project would be locally consumed.
E. Producer Prices
6.19      In evaluating the financial effects of the project on farmers,
producer prices have been assumed to remain, in real terms, at their 1980/81
levels. These prices are as follows:
Item                     Unit         Producer Price    Economic Price
(K)                (K)
Maize                                kg              0.15               0.20
Seed Cotton:  Grade A                kg              0.46               0.81
Makulu Red Groundnuts                kg              0.40               0.76
Sunflower                            kg              0.27               0.39
Fertilizer: X-compound               kg              0.20                0.43
: Urea                    kg              0.18               0.39
: Ammonium nitrate        kg              0.16               0.44
Beef                            kg liveweight        1.00               1.41
The estimates of the effects of the producer prices should be slightly on
the conservative side in view of GRZ's announcement in May 1981 of crop price
increases ranging from 12% (groundnuts) to 18.5% (maize).
6.20      It is vital to the success of the Project that producer prices
continue to offer attractive returns to producers who adopt the improved
technical packages. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, in order
to maintain producer incentives, GRZ would continue to review annually and
adjust as deemed necessary producer prices, in consultation with the Associa-
tion, taking into account the costs of production of smallscale producers,
the levels of border prices for the various crops, and the proposed reduction
in fertilizer subsidy, and would discuss agricultural pricing policy biennially
with the Association.



- 48 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Effects on Farmers
Beneficiaries
7.01      The targetted beneficiaries for the crop component would be farm
households currently not using improved practices. This group is currently
estimated to number about 65,000 farm households, representing about 450,000
people, about 75% of the Southern Province's population. As a result of the
improvements in extension and input delivery under the Project, it is esti-
mated that at full development (PY 15) about 26,900 families (41% of the target
group) would have adopted improved cultivation techniques and would have
increased their crop output. The Project would also benefit farmers not in
this target group through more timely input delivery and receipt of harvests
through the improvements of SPCMU input and produce storage, and in the delivery
of seasonal and medium-term credit. However, it is not possible to estimate
the number of farmers benefitted by these investments, or the degree to which
they would benefit. The Project's tsetse control component would benefit the
stock-owners in the Gwembe District whose cattle currently are under tsetse
threat.
Incremental Farm Incomes
7.02      The effects of adoption of improved technical packages on farm
incomes (in real terms) are detailed in Annex 1, Table T-21 for each of the
farm models and are summarized below:
Crop Model:           H      A'    A"       B-      B"     C
Livestock Model:                                                  25-30 Head
Without Project
Net crop income (K)            77    135    134    460    491  1,741
Net livestock Income (K)                                                       269
With Project
Incremental gross
income (K)                  54    193    191    498    657  1,492            161
- of which draft
oxen hire (K)                -      -       -                                  1
Incremental costs (K)           6     45     44    142    163    624            99
- of which draft
oxen hire (K)                -       3      5       -      -       -           -
Net Incremental Income (K)   47    147    147    357    494    869              62
Gross benefit/cost ratio        9.0    4.3    4.3    3.5    4.0    2.4           1.6
Incremental labor input
(man-day)                    27      62     59      56    131    323           15
Return to incremental
labor (K per man-day)         1.74   2.37   2.49   6.38   3.77   2.69          4.13
Total net crop income (K)   124    282    281    817    985  2,610
Total net livestock
income (K)                                                                   331
% increase over
"without Project"           61    109    110       78    101      50          23



- 49 -
7.03      Increases in farm crop incomes at full development that would result
from adoption of improved crop packages under the Project would range from 50%
to 110%, i.e. from a range of K 77-K 1,741 (US$96-$2,176) to K 124-K 2,610
(US$155-$3,263). Farm cash flows would not be a major problem because of
the short-term nature of investments (fertilizer and seed) required for the
production of annual crops. A typical livestock owner would increase his
income from cash sales by 23%. This relatively low return from incremental
livestock sales does not include, however, the value of additional oxen
retained on the farm as a result of Project-supported assistance, the benefits
of which are measured in additional land cultivated and, ultimately, in the
additional crop incomes shown for crop models B", B", and C. It has not been
possible to integrate crop and livestock income models, except to identify
those farm types which do not own oxen (H, A-, and A"), those which hire oxen
(A' and A") as a crop expense, and those which own most of the livestock (B',
B", and C). The above models also assume no decrease in levels of subsistence
production. Nor is it expected that levels of off-farm activities would be
affected significantly. The benefit/cost ratios and returns to each man-day
of incremental labor would be attractive to farmers.
B. Financial Effects on SPCMU
7.04      A normal financial analysis of SPCMU could not be done because (a)
the valuation of assets and the exact form of their transfer from NAMB to
SPCMU are yet to be finalized; and (b) SPCMU's medium and long-term investment
program based on the new and old activities would be worked out after the
transfer exercise has been completed. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government would cause SPCMU to prepare a plan satisfactory to
the Association by June 30, 1982 which should include (a) SPCMU's financial
position as reflected in its projected balance sheets, sources and application
of funds statements, profit and loss accounts; and (b) a capital investment
plan indicating the type and sources of finance envisaged within the next five
years, beginning January 1983. Understandings were reached that the plan
should have as its objective a sound overall financial performance for SPCMU
and a full contribution to this from each of its departments.
7.05      Even with the Project, SPCMU-s operating revenue and profit would
continue to depend primarily on trading activities (crop marketing and input
distribution) and hence on Government "restitution" for trading costs and
price differentials (for inputs only since price differential on crops has
been removed as of January 1981), since the pricing policy, as presently
determined by Government, does not include any mark-ups in commodity prices.
At present, Government "restitution" to SPCMU covers fully all direct and
indirect costs except the following: insurance, interest, depreciation,
losses and audit fees. These latter costs, together with the primary societies
levy, are supposed to be covered by a commission at the rate of 10% of purchase
price, which in fact does not cover them. Furthermore, no provision for a
reasonable rate of return on SPCMU's equity capital is made under the present
restitution arrangement. In order to improve and assure the financial integrity
of SPCMU and to provide financial incentives and efficiency within the coopera-
tive marketing system, assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ



- 50 -
would pav SPCMU a service charge in advance reflecting all trading costs and
providing for a reasonable rate of return, both of which would be computed on
the basis of agreed principles 1/ and on an annual procurement plan, prepared
by SPCMU in consultation with the Planning Unit in the PPS office, containing
all items SPCMU intends to purchase or distribute in the following year and
would be submitted to GRZ by October 31, each year 2/.
7.06      Under the assumption of a continuation of the present pricing and
marketing policy and that SPCMU would continue to handle all crops and inputs
and part of agricultural credit in the Province, including incremental
amounts under the Project, other identifiable financial benefits accruing to
SPCMT would include some reduction in input losses through improved practices
and better facilities, and decreased unit fixed costs as a result of increased
crop and input throughputs.
C. Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow
7.07      Government would recover the approximately 42% of Project costs that
are on-lent to SPCMU and ZADB, through their loan repayments. The balance of
Project costs, incurred by MAWD and the Provincial Administration, are not
subject to any direct cost recovery mechanism, and the extent of indirect
recovery has not been quantified. The Project would not increase directly-
generated revenue to GRZ, as there are no taxes or cesses levied on farm
production. However, it is likely that there would be a marked increase in
spending by Project beneficiaries on consumer goods, many of which are taxed.
As a result, it is expected that revenues from indirect taxation would increase.
Project beneficiaries would pay prices which would reflect full costs of all
seed and pesticides and, eventually, all credit. Under present GRZ policy
which subsidizes fertilizer below import parity, cost recovery on fertilizer
would be approximately 60%. In view of GRZ's current financial constraints,
it is expected that subsidy levels would be gradually reduced and cost recovery
rates raised to approximately 80% by the end of 1983 (para 1.18); it is also
expected that the maize handling subsidy would be eliminated by the end of
1983. Sales of seed and pesticides under the Project would be, as at present,
at prices fully covering handling costs.
7.08      The Project would involve the development of services (most notably,
extension) which would require long-term commitment by GRZ to provision of
staff and operating resources. The GRZ cash flows that would result from
Project implementation are presented in Table T-22. During the period of
disbursement of the IDA credit, GRZ contributions to Project costs would
amount annually to about 3% of the 1980 MAWD capital budget for Agriculture.
The incremental annual recurrent cost burden accruing to GRZ after the comple-
tion of credit disbursements would rise gradually from K 3 million in PY 6 to
1/   Trading costs would include an allowance for depreciation of assets.  The
return on equity capital would be not less than the ruling interest rate
on long-term capital in the country. These and other aspects of the
agreed principles have been specified in a (draft) letter which, by
agreement at the negotiations, would be sent by the Association to the
government for its confirmation after the signing of the Credit Agreement.
2/   To be ready for inclusion in annual budget before January.



- 51 -
over K 6 million by PY 11 (in current terms); the K 3 million of recurrent
costs in PY6, when expressed in 1980 prices, would amount to about 7% of the
1980 MAWD recurrent budget (excluding subsidies).
D. Foreign Exchange Implications
7.09      The impact of the Project on Zambia's balance of payments would
be favorable, as indicated in Table T-23. Following a brief period of deficit,
the Project would consistently generate annual net foreign exchange savings,
which would total about K 13 million (US$16.3 million equivalent) during the
period of credit disbursements. Thereafter, the Project would continue to
generate a net foreign exchange inflow as a result of its production of import-
substituting or, in the case of cotton and to some extent maize, export crops,
and reduction in fertilizer and produce storage losses. At full development,
the Project would result in net foreign exchange savings of about K 20 million
(US$25 million equivalent) annually.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Benefits
8.01      The main quantifiable economic benefits which would be realized as a
result of the Project would be: the incremental production of maize, cotton,
groundnuts, sunflower seed, *and soybeans resulting from the adoption of
improved technical packages by smallholders; incremental beef production which
would result from the comprehensive disease prevention and control program
including regular dipping and support of a livestock extension program, and
reduction in losses of inputs and produce which would result from improvement
of rural storage. The benefits of more assured supplies of fertilizer and
other inputs as a result of improved rural storage have been measured in
increased crop production. It is assumed that increased marketed crop produc-
tion would not result in reduced production of subsistence crops. It is also
assumed that, without the Project, crop production levels and input and output
storage losses would remain constant. Since the commodities involved are all
tradables, they have been valued at the relevant border prices, which in the
case of all commodities except maize happen to be their import prices adjusted
to reflect costs of transport, handling and processing. In the case of maize,
a blend of 60% import price and 40% export price has been taken to reflect
Zambia-s likely future trading position in this commodity. The economic value
of foreign exchange to the Zambian economy has been reflected by shadow-pricing
foreign exchange at the rate of KO.98 = US$1.00 as against the official exchange
rate of KO.80 = US$1.00.
8.02      In addition to the Project's quantifiable benefits, it is expected
that some unquantifiable benefits would accrue as a result of Project imple-
mentation. Institution-building investments within the Southern Province
administration are expected to strengthen the capacity of local staff to plan
and execute development programs relevant to the Southern Province. The
provision of technical assistance to MAWD and SPCMU is expected to assist
those organizations in better planning, monitoring and evaluation and to
reduce the costs of credit administration.



- 52 -
8.03      Economic Costs.  The costs that have been taken into account in the
economic analysis of the Project are the capital and recurrent costs of the
extension service (for crops and livestock), other livestock development,
input stores and incremental fertilizer, seed and insecticides, produce
storage, credit administration, project administration, incremental farm labor
and physical contingencies. The foreign exchange costs of these resources are
valued at the shadow exchange rate. Labor has been valued at its opportunity
cost, which in the case of unskilled labor has been taken to be KO.95 per
manday, which is about 50% below the present official minimum wage to reflect
the observed general under-employment of family labor. Project costs would
continue after the fifth year of the Project (PY 5) on the basis that (i) most
recurrent departmental costs (except expatriate salaries) would continue at
the level reached in PY 5; (ii) vehicles would be replaced every five years;
(iii) Project evaluation would continue; and (iv) farm costs for fertilizer
and other input and storage costs would rise steadily in line with rising
demand for inputs and rising output. Project costs excluded from the economic
analysis are the incremental credit funds. The precise use of these funds by
ZADB has not been anticipated, and the corresponding benefits have also been
excluded from the analysis.
Economic Rate of Return
8.04      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the Project has been
calculated for the Project over a 20-year period. Separate rates of return
have been calculated for extension and training (taking into account the costs
of both extension and training and input supply) and livestock development,
rural input storage, and produce storage. The results of these analyses are:
Component                     IERR          % of Project Costs
Extension and Training and
Livestock Development               31                  59
Rural Input Storage                   11                   13
Produce Storage                       16                   11
Overall Project Investments           27                   92
The relatively high overall IERR of the extension and training and livestock
development components is the result of the reactivation of existing resources
such as extension staff which would lead to significant increases in crop and
livestock production with only marginal increases in off-farm costs. The
lowest IERR, 11% for rural input storage, most likely underestimates the true
value of such storage, because it does not reflect the difficult-to-quantify
benefits of more assured supplies of inputs; the IERR reflects only the
benefits of lower spoilage rates also offered by this component.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
8.05      The risk judged most likely to affect the Project's rate of return
would be lower crop yields arising from slow adoption of improved husbandry
and lower than expected use of fertilizer and improved seed. At a 12% dis-
count rate, Project benefits would have to lag behind by about three years



- 53 -
for either the crop and livestock components or the project as a whole to
be unacceptable. Similarly, a 40% decrease in crop and livestock benefits,
resulting from poor farmer uptake or lower yields due to reduced fertilizer
application rates or poorer oxen performance, would be necessary to render the
extension and training and livestock components unacceptable. A 63% increase
in these components' costs would have similar effects on their acceptability.
For the Project as a whole, a 37% reduction in the overall level of return
would render the Project unacceptable, while a 60% increase in Project costs
would have similar effects. The emphasis placed on the reorganization and
improvement of the extension service and on more responsive farm pricing
policies is designed to reduce this possibility. Finally, pricing unskilled
labor at market wage rates rather than at 50% of these rates would reduce the
Project IERR from 27% to 22%, and shadow pricing foreign exchange at a 45%
premium rather than at a 22.5% premium would raise the IERR from 27% to 30%.
Eliminating the foreign exchange premium and using a market wage for labor
results in an IERR of 25%.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached that LINTCO and NAMB
would receive adequate foreign exchange and local currency allocations to
enable these organizations to effectively discharge their input delivery and
marketing functions in the Southern Province and that, until ZADB becomes
operational, GRZ would continue providing AFC annually with funds, sufficient
in real terms to maintain at least the levels of credit that AFC supplied to
smallholders both directly and through SPCMU in the Southern Province in the
1980/81 crop season (para 4.30).
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  ZADB operating policies, procedures, interest rate and financial
plan would be drawn up and submitted to the Association before
March 31, 1982 in a comprehensive plan, satisfactory to the
Association (para. 4.23);
(b)  ZADB and SPCMU would progressively raise their interest rates so
that by March 31, 1984 these rates would allow them to cover their
cost of funds, operating costs and reasonable provisions for bad
debts and net income; and that GRZ would take all measures neces-
sary to revise the maximum interest rate SPCMU and ZADB are
allowed to charge in order that SPCMU and ZADB could carry out
this obligation (para 4.23);
(c)  GRZ would appoint qualified local Zambians as deputies to all
posts filled with internationally-recruited personnel who are not
Zambian citizens, for extension and project administration (paras.
4.05, 4.24);
(d)  the incremental operating costs of extension and training, live-
stock development and Project administration would be progressively
transferred from the GRZ development budget to the recurrent budget
during PY 2-PY 5 (para 4.27);



- 54 -
(e) GRZ non-incremental recurrent expenditures on extension services,
research and livestock development in the Southern Province would be
maintained at levels not below those of recent years, in real terms
(para 4.27);
(f) the financing of Project costs would be as stated (para 4.29);
(g) the funds required for extension and training, livestock development
and Project administration would be deposited quarterly in advance
in a separate Project account controlled by the PPS, Southern
Province, and that the funds required for implementation of other
components would be made available in a timely manner to the agen-
cies involved (para 4.29);
(h) GRZ would ensure that SPCMU would receive adequate foreign
exchange and local currency allocations to enable it to
effectively discharge its input delivery and marketing
functions in the Southern Province (para 4.30);
(i) the procurement procedures outlined would be followed (para 4.31);
(j) separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project
would be maintained by the PPS, Southern Province, ZADB and SPCMU,
that these accounts would be audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association and that such audited accounts would be
submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each
financial year (para 4.34);
(k) the proposed annual Project work programs and budgets for each
component would be prepared by the implementing agencies and be
submitted to the PPS not later than May 31 of each year, and his
office would consolidate these into an overall work program and
budget request by June 30 of each year, for review by the SEC, and
that they would be sent to the Association for comment after they
have been approved by the PPS (para 5.01);
(1) that reporting procedures be followed as outlined (para 5.02)
and that, within six months of the completion of disbursements,
GRZ would prepare and submit to the Association a Project
Completion Report (para 5.13);
(m)  GRZ would appoint the Provincial Farm Management Officer not
later than July 1, 1982 and all other internationally recruited
staff not later than April 1, 1982; that the Association would be
consulted, prior to appointment, on the suitability in terms of
qualifications and experience of all internationally-recruited
staff, any consultants, the SPCMU Credit Manager, and the Research
Officer financed under the Project and successor staff appointed to
these positions; that both the Research Officer and the Credit
Manager would be appointed not later than May 1, 1982; that all
internationally-recruited staff and any consultants would be employed
under terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Association; and that the posts of Provincial Agricultural



- 55 -
Officer, Provincial Extension Training Officer, (Gwembe) District
Tsetse Control Officer and Provincial Veterinary Officer would
continue to be filled throughout the Project by qualified and
experienced staff (para 5.12);
(n) in order to maintain producer incentives at a proper level, GRZ
would continue to review annually and adjust as necessary producer
and fertilizer prices, in consultation with the Association, and
would take account in price determination of border prices and the
costs of production of small scale producers, and would discuss
agricultural pricing policy biennially with the Association (para
6.20).
(o) GRZ would cause SPCMU to prepare a plan, satisfactory to the
Association by June 30, 1982, incorporating SPCMUNs projected
investment plan and its financial position for the next five
years beginning January 1983, which pursues a sound overall
financial performance for SPCMU (para 7.04).
(p) GRZ would pay SPCMU a service charge reflecting all direct and
indirect trading costs and providing for a reasonable rate of
return on equity capital in advance and on the basis of an annual
procurement plan, prepared by SPCMU in consultation with the
planning officers in the PPS office, containing all items SPCMU
intends to purchase or distribute in the following year and
be submitted to GRZ by October 31, each year (para 7.05).
(q) GRZ would ensure that the two-man technical assistance team
which is scheduled to strengthen SPCMUIs cooperative business
and credit operations would be provided either from bilateral
sources, as currently planned, or under other arrangements, not
later than June 30, 1982 (para 4.19).
(r) GRZ would cause the Provincial Veterinary Officer in the Southern
Province to determine and ensure that participating farmers pay a
regular dipping fee adequate to sustain routine dip tank maintenance
and replenishment of acaricides; GRZ would ensure that the fees so
collected shall be deposited in an account to be administered on
terms and conditions acceptable to itself and the Association (paras
4.30, 5.07).
(s) SPCMU would extend project credit in kind only to cooperative
societies that had established annual recovery rates of at least
95%, achieved initially in respect of existing credit funds and
subsequently in respect of project credit also, unless a society can
provide evidence of unusual circumstances affecting farmers ability
to repay loans (para 4.22).
(t) GRZ would make available to the Association for comment, prior
to calling for tenders, the criteria and data used for justifying
the size and siting of agricultural camps (paras 4.07).
9.03      Conditions for credit effectiveness would be:  (a) the execution
of a financing agreement acceptable to the Association between GRZ and SPCMU



- 56 -
(para 4.29); (b) the appointment of a Senior Planning Officer, Accountant
and Provincial Extension Management Officer after consultation with the
Association on qualifications and experience (para 5.12); (c) the establish-
ment of and initial deposits into the Project Advance Accounts (para 4.29);
and (d) establishment of the SEC with composition and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association (paras 4.25, 5.01 and 5.13).
9.04      A condition for disbursement of incremental credit funds to ZADB
would be the execution of a financing agreement acceptable to the Association
between GRZ and ZADB (para 4.29).
9.05      The proposed Project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$18 million to the Government of the Republic of Zambia.



57
ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Charts and Tables



Chart C-1
58
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
PYla/I              PY2               PY3                PY4               PY5
2 3 4  1 2 34                         2 3 4                 34  1 2 3 4  1
EXTENSION AND TRAINING                         j
Technical Assistance                   _   _         _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _ -            _ -      _   _ -        _
Vehicles of Equipment             _ _ _ _ _
Housing                                         _         _    _        _   _   _   _   _                    -
Other Civil Works                                    _    _   _   -   _          _    - _      - _                - _
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Vehicles and Equipment                     _   _   _               -
Housing                                    _   _   _    _   _                    -
Other Civil Works                               -   _           _   - _     _    _    _    _   _
INPUT DELIVERY
Vehicles and Equipment
Civil Works                                     - _   _       _                                     - _
PRODUCE STORAGE
Technical Assistance
Equipment                              _   _   _                                 - _
Housing                                                       -   _   _   _   _   _   _
Other Civil Works                                             L    -   _         - _
CREDIT DEVELOPMENT'
Credit Manager                         _             _    _   _  I  _             _   _   _   _   _              - i  i         l
Vehicles and Equipment                          - =       _   =    =
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Technical Assistance                    _   _                   - _           - l                  l      -           l   l   l
Vehicles and Equipment                 _                                                   -
Supervising and Evaluation Cqmmittee       _          _   _  I                                                    -
.          __         ____ -.                  I    _   _         I                             :         I      I        I   !   I
al The quarters shown correspond to Zambia's financial year (January 1 -December 31), and the Project is shown to begin
from the projected date of effectiveness of April 1, 1982.
World Bank - 22890



|  Eg            >             :   i    .                             9        }                                     q >-                                     . r >u0 
a  ACC~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0>~~~m   
5  >Qz                                                                               > _  <                                   o
o                                  '                                                                                       - z                       .-I
~~*.*  ACO0                                                                                      N 0 ~H'aRo                                C0                                                 >Z
>CC                                                                                       ; >                                    AC
3'                                                                                                                                       0
CCC>  S .A  _....            ..5. -              -    C-     .
H
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- --------                                                                         ----------                                                                        0 0 ''''   
3A-. ICA,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
l                                                               Q  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
a<..C                                                                                                        ..                  .r
S0-  -                                                                  ,                                  -                                                      r
CAN                                                                                                                                                      -7-r-
03    0-      ~     A            3          ~         .C~=.                    A           CC >3



I
I



2AHBIA
Southern Provynce Aericulturatl Devlopoent Pralect
Harketed Agricultural Production In Zambia 1969-1979
Crop Year 1/
ComwmiodIltC        Unit       1, 69              1970      1971       1972       1973      1974      1L71       1976       1977       1978       1979
Inizt                S tone           265,860   133,260   386,940   598,530   399,150  588,090   559,480   749,970   696,100   548,070   335,400
obacco;1ialue-cued    i tolls            5,023     4,796     5,908      5,532      6,222    6,300      6,466      6,262      5,588      3,704     4,071
:Hsnr].Ay      UJ tons              255        388        384       b71        430       501        501        212        312        264      n.a.
:Orlem,Lal    iii tons                75         8          4                                                1,394      1,675        n.a.     n.a.
;iigar caite         tn tons           256,700   321,600   330,300   397,400   487,700  570,200   768,200   779,600   691,400              n.n.      n.a.        g
;ioulid ikita         It tosi            8,428      3,675      6,919     6,503      3,211    3,626       6,499      9,467      7,462     2,214    3,360
41aflowcar t.eid     Su tonIs                4        ---         11        124       398    4,003       8,243    15,965    13,307       7,515    10,200.
ioya bean             s iAum               ---        ---        ---       ---        ---        37        367        604      1,274       212      1,187
IeAJ c,.tl ol         , l' t0 u          6,901     5,4b6    12,675       8,349      5,225    2,175      2,602      3.885      8,929      8,600    IS,098
attLE1                thea8             47,693    68,399    72,805    77,908    88,176   80,139    71,659    77,602    71,505              n.t.      n.t.
I k                  in ton            15,481    14,903    16,463    17,001    17,102   13,187    13,011.   12,147    11,696              n.a,.      l.t.
.". - nut availlble.
/ Tht crrap year runte from -July through June; the corresponding markettng year
iwlirn tbu aLove nriJes are actnoally pAid to famer) runs from the following
July through June.
0
uHH
H



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketed Volume of flajor Crops in Southern Province _/
(Metric Tons)
2/
1975/76       1976/77        1977/78       1978/79       1979/80
Climatic Conditions              Average         Poor         Exc  iive        Poor        Average
Commodity
Maize                             275,000        266,000       259,000       170,000          n.a.
0'
Seed Cotton                         1,000         1,509          2,341         3,285         7,000
Sunflower                           4,135         2,761          2,214         3,252         4,080
Groundnuts                          1,463          5,000 -/       2,695           190         n.a.
Soyabean                              332         1,129             915          908           805
Sorghum                               n.a.             9              7            8          n.a.
Source: NANB, SPCMU and Department of Agriculture
n.a. - not available.
1/  Quantities sold to NAMB and SPCMU.   Accordingly, the figures do not account for (a) illegal
and/or local sales, (b) storage losses, and (c) subsistence production, such as for maize and
groundnuts.
2/  Preliminary figures.
3/  Approximate figure.
June 11, 1981



62
ANNEX 1
Table T-3
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Categories and 1980 Population by District
('000)
District
Mazabuka              Kalomo &                                    % of
Category of Land         &        Choma      Living-   Gwembe    Namwala    Total        Total
Monze                 stone
1. State Land             445        199         394        12         -        1,050        12
2. Reserve and
Trust Land           706        520      2,326       954       1,266       5,772        68
3. Forest Reserve           5          5         477        -           60        547         6
4. Kafue Nat. Park          -          -          56        -         830         886        11
5. Lake Kariba               -         -           -       268          -         268         3
Total           1,156        724      3,253    1,234        2,156       8,523      100
Total Population  226,200   101,600    141,300   99,800         31,600    600,000
No. of Farm
Households        27,200      9,600       9,700   15,200       3,500      65,200
Farm H.H. per
1,000 ha of
R. & T. Land          38         18           4       16         < 3          11
December 17, 1980



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASING OF PROJECT COSTS
(K. 000)
06/30/81
1      2       3       4       5   TOTAL   TOTAL         F.E.     F.E.%
US$.000   US$,000
EXTENSION AND TRAINING    919    979    792    806    762   4P262              5,333      1,808       34
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT        499    555    474    472    474   2,472           3,097      1,417       46
INPUT DELIVERY               348    465    620    886  1,144   3i464           4,333      2,826       65         W
FPRODUCE STORAGE              67    516    586       135      181   1,485      1,856         974      52
CREDIT DEVELOPMENT            67      67    165    145       183       624       783          77      10
PROJECT ADMINSTRATION        214    211      195    195    211   1,029         1,288         724      56
TOTAL BASE COST            2,114  2,793  2,832  2,639   2,955  13,336    16,690           7,826       47   0 N
PHYSICAL COSTINGENCIES       143    203      198    172    201        915      1,146         644      56
PRICE CONTINGENCIES          263    685  1,067  1,385   1,987   5,387          6,735      2,727       40
TOTAL PROJECT COST         2,520  3,681   4,097  4,196   5,143  19,638    24,571         115197       46



~6
ZAMBIA                                                                 ANNEX 1
SOUTHERN PROVIN E AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              Table T-5
EXTENSION AND TRAINING
(K. 000)
BY PROJECT YEAR
06/25/81
NO. OF    UNIT        1       2       3       4       5  TOTAL   TOTAL         F.E.     F.E.%
UNITS    COST                                                    USS.000   U58.000
I.CAPITAL COSTS
I.CIVIL WORKS
NEW STAFF HOUSES (FN.1)                           -        -       -       -       -       -       -       _          _          _       _
TYPE 311 (FN.2)                                   4  29,960       60      30      30       -       -    120        150          30      20
TYPE 311 (FN.3)                                   3  36.800        -      37      37      37       -    110        138          28      20
TYPE 302 (FN.2)                                  11  17,200       52      34      52      52       -    189        236          47      20
TYPE 302 (FN.3)                                  10  21,200       42      64      42      64       -    212        265          53      20
EXT. NOT. SPEC.                                   1  53.500       54       -       -       -       -      54        68          20      29
FARM NGT, SPEC.                                   1  53,500       54       -       -       -       -      54        68          20      29
RENNOY. TO STAFF HOUSES (FN.4)                   27        -      27      12      15      1S      12      80       1OO          20      20
CAMP IMPROVEMENTS (FN.S)                        100        -       -      53      53      53      53    212        265          53      20
PIT LATRINES                                     SO      480      12      12       -       -       -      24        30           3      10
NEW WELLS                                        30      800       -       4       8       8       4      24        30           -       -
REPAIR OF EXISTING WELLS                         60      590       6       9      11      11       -      36        45           -       -
OFFICE AND STORE (FN.6)                           2   6,950        7       7       -       -       -      14        18           4      22
SUB TOTAL                                        -        -    312    261       247    238       69  1.129      1,413        278       20
2.VEHICLES I EQUIPMENT (FN.17)
4-WD PICK UP (FN.7)                              14  19,080      133    133        -       -    133    400         500         350      70
MOBILE KITCHENS (FN.9)                            2  21,200        -      21      21       -       -      42        53          48      91
4-WD PICK-UP L/W (FN.8)                           2  22,260       22      22       -       -      22      67        84          59      70
MOTORCYCLES                                      31   1,060       33       -       -      33       -      66        83          75      90
YEH. SPARE PARTS (FN.10)                          -        -      14      10       -       -       -      24        30          27      90
SUB TOTAL                                                 -    203      187      21      33    156    599         750        559       75
3.INITIAL TRAINING (FN.11)
NEW VEW S                                        48      490       -       6       6       6       6      23        29           -       -
EXISTING YEW S                                  149      190      14      14       -       -       -      29        36           -       -
SUPERVISORS I DST. SMS                           80      110       6       6       -       -       -      11        14           -       -
PROVINCIAL STAFF                                 17       90       1       1       -       -       -       2         3           -       -
TRAINING MATERIALS                                -        -       3       -       -       3       -       5         6           -       -
SUB TOTAL                                        -        -      23      26       6       8       6      70        88           -       -
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                              -        -    538    474    274    279    231  1,798    2,251               837       37
II.OPERATING COSTS
1.SALARIES I ALLOWANCES (FN.12)                     -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -          -          -       -
YEW                                              43   1,510        8      12      15      15      15      65        81           -       -
EXT. NGT. SPECIALIST (MM) (FN.13)                60   6,360       76      76      76      76      76    382        478         320      67
FARM nOT. SPECIALIST (NM) (FN.13)                57   6,360       57      76      76      76      76    362        453         304      67
PROY. STF. TRAYEL(SDAY/MO,K17/DAY)               17   1,020       17      17      17      17      17      87       109           -       -
DST. STF. TRAVEL (8DAY/nO,KiI/DAY)               8o   1,056       85      85      as      85      85    423        529           -       -
STAT. SUPERY. TRAVEL(8DAY/MO,K11/DAY)            30   1,056       32      32      32      32      32    159        199           -       -
YEW TRAVEL (4DAY/MO,K9/DAY) (FN.14)               -      384      64      68      72      77      81    362        453           -       -
SUB TOTAL                                        -        -    3]9    367 '  373    376    382  1,940    2,302                624      27
3.VEHICLE OPERATING COST (FN.15)
4-WD PICK UPS (K./YR)                            16   6,600       26     106     106     106    106    449         561         281      SO
MOBILE KITCHENS (K./YR)                           2   3,000        -       3       6       6       6      21        26          13      50
MOTORCYCLES (K./YR)                              31      600       9      19      19      19      19      84       105          53      50
SUB TOTAL                                        -        -      36    127      130    130    130    554          692         347      50
4.OTHER OPERATING COSTS (FN.16)
HOUSING MAINTENANCE                               -        -       6      11      15      19      19      70         88          -       -
SUB TOTAL                                        -        -       6      11      15      19      19      70        8S           -       -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                            -        -    381      505    518    527    531  2,464         3,082         971      32
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COST                          -        -    919    979    792    806    762  4,262    5,333             1,808       34
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                           -        -      56      59      41      42      37    235        294         118      40
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                              -        -    114    241       310    441    515  1,621    2,026             505      25
TOTAL COSTS                                      -        -  1,089  1,279  1,143  1,289  1.314  6,118    7,653              2,431      32
_ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - -



Footnotes for Extension and Training Table
1/ Seven staff houses Type 311: Two to be erected at new agricultural station (Gwembe and Monze)
Gwembe off L.o.r. , Monze on L.o.r.
Five on DOA premises for SMS staff: Mochipapa 2, Namwala 1,
Monze 1, Gwembe 1.
Two expatriate staff houses at Mochipapa.
Twenty-one staff houses Type 302 for new camps.
2/ Along the line of rail.
3/ Away from the line of rail.                                                                                      2
4/ Nine 302 houses in Year 1, 4 in Year 2, 5 in Years 3 and 4, and 4 in Year 5, estimated to cost K 50 per m  of plan area.
5/ Painting, roof and window repairs, etc. at 10% of new cost of 302 houses.
6/ Offices and stores for new agricultural stations.
7/ Includes vehicle for each of two expatriate staff (Extension Management and Farm Management Specialist).
8/ To be used for staff training purposes, to move field staff to and from course locations and SMS staff to field.
Under control and responsibility of the Provincial Agricultural Officer.
9/ For use by home economists for field demonstrations.  Self-propelled unit; includes utensils.
10/ Spare parts for 9 DOA vehicles laid up in MSB but worth repairing.                                                             A
11/ It is assumed that training programs would only be initiated during last 3 months of PY 1. Six-month induction course
for 48 new VEW's. Two-month refresher courses and retraining for 149 existing camp staff. Four-weeks' course for
station supervisors (29) and district staff (45) and FI/FTC officers (6). Two-weeks' training course for PAO and
SMS's (crop and livestock). Training materials: notebooks, hand outs, etc.
12/ Allowances will be provided for all existing and incremental staff.
13/ Includes salaries, allowances, local travel, return fares and home leave travel.
14/ Year 1: 149 VEW's, Year 2: 158, Year 3: 167, Year 4: 177, Year 5: 187, Year 6: 197.
15/ 4-WD Pick-up: 15,000 km during first year, thereafter 30,000 km/yr at K 0.22/km - K 6,600 each. Mobile kitchen:
12,000 km/yr at K 0.25/km = 3,000 each. Motorcycles: 12,000 km/yr at K 0.05/km = K 600; assumed to cover only
6,000 km during first year.
16/ Housing maintenance at 2% of construction costs.
17/ Unit costs include spares.
HI-



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOF'MENT
BY PROJECT YEAR
(K. 000)
06/26,/81
1    2    3    4    5  TOTAL   TOTAL        F*E.    F*E*
US$,000   US$*000
I.CAF'ITAL COSTS
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS               76  114  105   64    -    358         449         50      11
TOTAL VEHICLES & EQUIP.        261  125    1   40   85    511         642        496      77
TOTAL CAPITAL COST             337  239  106  104   85    869    1,091           546      50
_ _ _   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   _ _ _ __-C,.
II.OPERATING COSTS
TOTAL SALARIES & ALLOWANCES   65   97   98   85   86    432           541         --       -
TOTAL VEH. OPERATING COSTS    48   81   94   94   94    410           513        288      56
TOTAL OTHER OF'ERAT. COSTS      18   12   19   16   13       78        98         71      72
TOTAL OTHER                     31  126  157  173  196    683         854        512      60
TOTAL OF'ERATING COST          162  316  368  368  389  1F603    2,006           871      43
TOTAL BASE COST                499  555  474  472  474  2.472    3,097         1,417      46
F'HYSIC. CONTINGENCIES          43   45   38   38   39    204         256        141      55
PRICE CONTINGENCIES             65  140  184  243  317    949    1,186           347      29
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            607  740  696  753  830  3,625    4,539         1,905      42
_ _ _   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - -



ZAND IA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INPUT DELIVERY
(K.000)
BY PROJECT YEAR
06/25/81
17:00:47
NO. OF    UNIT    1    2    3         4       5  TOTAL   TOTAL        F.E.    F.E.X
UNITS    COST                                           US$.000   US$.000
I. CAPITAL COSTS
1.CIVIL WORKS
STORE SHEDS (250T)                         30  27,820  167  250  250    i67          -    835    1,044          470      45
STORE SHEDS (150T)                         30  21.400  128  193  193    128          -    642        803        361      45
SUB TOTAL                                  -        -  295  443  443    295         -  1,477    1,847          831      45
2,VEHICLES I EQUIPMENT
4-WD PICK UP (SPCMU)                       2  19,080   38    -    _         _      38      76        95         86      91
TOTAL CAPITAL COST                         -        -  333  443  443    295        38  1,553    1,942          917      47
II. OPERATING COSTS
1.SALARIES I ALLOWANCES                       -           -    -    -      -           -       -         -          -       -
DRIVERS SALARIES                            2   1,300    1    3    3         3       3      12        15          -       -
STAFF ALLOWANCES                            -        -    3    3    3        3       3      16        20          -       -
WATCHMEN                                   60     860    -    -    -        52      52    103        129          -       -
SUB-TOTAL                                  -        -    5    6    6       57      57    131        164          -       -
2.VEHICLE OPERATING COST                      2   6,400    6   13   13        13      13      58        73         66      90
3.OTHER OPERATING COSTS                       -
STORE SHED MAINTENANCE                      -        -    -    -    _       37      37     74         93          _       _
SUB TOTAL                                  -       -    -    -    -        37      37     74         93-
4.TRAINING                                   60      160    3    3    3        -       -      10        13          -       -
5.INCREMENTAL FERT. SEEDS ANDi CHEM.          -        -    -    -  155    484    999  1,638    2,048           1,843      90
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                      -       -   15   22  177    591  1,106  1,9l1    2,391            1,909      80
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COST                    -       -  348  465  620    886  1,144  3,464    4,333           2,826       65
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    -       -   34   46   61        83    109    332        416         283      68  
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       -       -   44  117  243    480    806  1,690    2,113           1,378       65
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         _       -  426  628  924  1,449  2s059  5y486    6,862           4,487       65   2



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODUCE STORAGE
(K. 000)
NO. OF    UNIT    1    2    3    4    5  TOTAL   TOTAL            F.E.     F.E.%
UNITS    COST                                       US$.000   US$.OO0
I.CAPITAL COSTS
1.CIVIL WORKS                               -        -   -    -    -    -    -          -         -           -       -
HARD STANDING LOR                        6  39,320         236     -    -    -    236         295         145      49
HARD STANDING RURAL                      6  43,870   -    -  263    -    -    263             329         161      49
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION                  4  10,600   -   21   21    -    -           42        53          46      91
HOUSE TYPE 101                           4  11,260   -   23   23    -    -           45        56          22      39
OFFICE (25 SO. M)                        4  10,070   -   20   20    -    -           40        50          20      40
SITE ROADS (200 M.)                      4  14.930   -   30   30    -    -           60        75          30      40
SITE FENCING (400 M.)                    4  11,870   -   24   24    -    -           48        60          48      80
SITE WALLS                               4      700   -    I    1    -    -           3         4           2      50
ENGINEERING I SUPERV. (7 1/2X)           -         -   -   26   28    -    -         54        68          35      51
SUB TOTAL                               -        -   -  381  410    -    -    791            989        511       52
2.VEHICLES * EQUIPMENT                      -        -   -    -    -    -    -          -          -          -       -
TWIN LOADING BOOM                        6  16,960   -   68   68    -    -    136             170         162      95
DIESEL GENERATOR (12-15 KVA)             2  10,600   -    -   2t    -    -           21        26          25      96
SUB TOtAL                               -        -   -   68   89    -    -    157            196        187       95
TOTAL CAPITAL                           -        -   -  449  499    -    -    948          1,185        698       59
II.OPERATING COSTS
I.SALARIES i ALLOWANCES
CONSULTANT SERVICES(M MONTHS)          20   7,000  60   60   20    -    -    140             175        117       67
SITE MANAGER (MAN YEARS)                t0   4,350   -    -    9   17   17           44        55           -       -
SUPERVISOR (MAN YEARS)                  10   3r340   -    -    7   13   13           33        41           -       -
MECHANIC (MAN YEARS)                    10   4-350   -    -    9   17   17           44        55           -       -
CLERKS (MAN YEARS)                      20   2,330   -    -    9   19   19           47        59           -       -
LABOURERS (MAN MONTHS)                 280       72   -    -    3    6   12          20        25           -       -
WATCHMEN (MAN YEARS)                     5      870   -    -    1    2    2           4         5           -       -
SUB TOTAL                               -        -  60   60   57   74   80    332            415         117      28
2.TRAINING                                  -        -   -    -    -    -    -          -          -          -       -
MANAGER                                   4   1,080   2    2    -    -    -           4         5           -       -
SUPERVISOR                               4      540   1    1    -    -    -           2         3           -       -
MECHANICS                                 4     540   1    1    -    -    -           2         3           -       -
CLERKS                                   8      540   2    2    -    -    -           4         5           -       -
SUB TOTAL                               -        -   7    7    -    -    -          12        15           -       -
3.OTHER OPERATING COSTS                     -        -   -    -    -    -    -          -         -           -       -
MAINTENENCE (H.S.                      30   1,725   -    -   10   21   21           52        65          47      72
FUMIGATION (H.S.)                        7   1,190   -    -    1    2    5            9        11           6      73
BAGS (H.S.)                              7   9,400   -    -    9   19   38           66        93          42      51
ELECTRICITY (H.S.)                       4      972   -    -    1    1    2           4         5           -       -
DIESEL (H.S.)                            3      950   -    -    -    1    2           3         4           3      75
TARPAULINS (H.S.)                        7   8,400   -    -    8   17   34           59        74          59      60
SUB TOTAL                               -        -   -    -   30   61  101    193            241        159       66
TOTAL OPERATING COST                    -        -  67   67   87  135  181    537            671        276       41
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        -        -  67  536  586  135  181  l.4P5          1,856        974      52
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  -        -   1   46   53       6   10    115         144         86       60
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     -        -   9  124  215   74  127    549            687        238       35
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      -        -  77  686  954  215  318  2,149    2,697            1,298       48



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT DEVELOPMENT
(K 000)
BY PROJECT YEAR
06/26/81
10:35:10
NO. OF    UNIT    1   2    3    4    5  TOTAL    TOTAL           F.E.    F.E.%
UNITS    COST                                      US$.000   US$.000
I. CAFITAL COSTS
1.VEHICLES & EQUIFMENT                               -         -    -    -        -       -          -          -       -
FICK UF (FN.1)                             1  19,080  19   -    -    -   19           38        48          43      90
MOTOR CYCLES (FN.2)                        8   1,060   -   3    2    -    3            9        11          10      91
OFFICE EQUIFMENT (FN.3)                    -        -   -   2    1    -    -           3         4           2      50
SUB TOTAL                                  -        -  19   5    3    -   22          50        63          55      87
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                        -        -  19   5    3    -   22          50        63          55      87
II. OFERATING COSTS
1.SALARIES & ALLOWANCES                       -         -   -   -    -    -    -          -          -          -       -
HEAD OFFICE                                -         -   -   -    -    -    -          -         -           -       -
CREDIT MANAGER (FN.8)                      1   8 640   9   9    9    9    9           43        54           -       -
CREDtITOFFICER (FN.9)                      2   5,200   -   5   10   10   10           36        45           -       -
ACCOUNT CLERK                              1   1,900   2   2    2    2    2           10        13           -       -
SECRETARIES                                1   1,300    1   1    1    1    1           7         9           -       -
CREDIT ASSISTANTS                          5   1,900   -   6   10   10   10           34        43           -       -
SUB TOTAL                                 -        -  12  23   32   32   32         130       164           -       -
2.VEHICLES & OTHER OFERATING COSTS             -        -   -   -    -    -    -          -          -          -        -         s
PICK UP (FN.4)                             1   4,400    4   4    4    4    4          22        28          11      39
MOTOR CYCLES (FN.5)                        5      750   -   3    4    4    4          14        18           9      50
OFFICE EXFENSES (FN.6)                     -        -   -   1    1    1    1           3         4           2      50
SUB TOTAL                                  -        -   5   8    9    9    9          39        50          22      44
3. TRAINING
DISTRICT MANAGERS (FN.7)                   5   1,620   4   4    -    -    -            8        10           -       -
CREDIT ASSISTANTS (FN.8)                   -      810   -   -    4    -    -           4         5           -       -
MPCS MANAGERS (FN.9)                      35   2,430  24  24   24   12    -           85       106           -       -
PS & MPCS BD. MEMBERS (FN.10)             75      110   2   2    2    2    -           8        10           -       -
SUB TOTAL                                  -        -  31  31   31   14    -    105            131           -       -
4.INCREMENTAL CREDIT FUNDS (ZADB)              -        -   -   -   90   90  120    300            375           -
TOTAL OPERATING COST                       -        -  48  62  162  145  161    574            720          22       3
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COST                    -        -  67  67  165  145  183    624            783          77      10
FHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     -        -   6   1    4    2    3          19        24           8      33
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        -        -   8  18   52   59   99    236            295          39      13   H 
TOTAL COST                                 -        -  81  89  218  206  285    879          1,102         124      1        I- 
- _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - -   - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - --__ _ _- -
I ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~_



Foot Notes for Credit Development Table T-9
1/  A pick-up would be provided for the credit manager and credit officers at Choma.  Price includes spares.
Replacement after 5 years.
2/ A motorcycle will be provided for each district credit assistant. Price includes spares. Replacement
after 4 years.
3/ Office equipment: 4 calculators, 2 typewriters & office furniture for Choma; 5 calculators & furniture
for district offices.
4/ Based on 20,000 km/year: @ k .22/km.
5/ Based on 15,000 km/year: @ K .05/km.
6/ Telephone, stationery, postage and tolls incidentals.
7/  Five managers for 30 days each year at K27/day.  Course in year 1 followed by another in year 2.
8/  Credit assistants in year 3, 30 day course at K25/day.
9/ The present 16 MPCS is expected to increase to 26.5. Each manager requires training for 90 days at K27/dav.
Up to ten managers in each of the first 3 years and 5 in vear 4.
10/ Seventy five board members to be trained each requiring 1 month at K3/day plus K20 transport.
o
m >4
10



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINSTRATION
(K. 000)
BY PROJECT YEAR
06/26/81
NO. OF    UNIT    1    2    3    4    5  TOTAL   TnTAL           F.E.    F
UNITS    COST                                      US$SOOO   US$.000
I.CAPITAL COST
1.VEHICLES t EQUIPMENT
CARS (INCL. SPARES)                   3  15.900   16   16    _    _   16        48        60          54     90
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                      -   3,180    3    -    -    -    -          3         4          2     50
SUB TOTAL                                    -   i9   16    -    _   16        51        64         56      88
TOTAL CAPITAL                        -       -   19   16    -    -   16        51        64         56      88
II.OPERATING COSTS
1,SALARIES & ALLOWANCES
ACCOUNTANT               (MM)       60   6,360   76   76   76   76   76    382           478        320      67
SENIOR PLANNING OFFICER (MM)         60   6,360   76   76   76   76   76    382          478        320      67
RESEARCH OFFICER                      5   6,480    7    7    7    7    7        33        41           -      -
JR. PLANNING OFFICER                  2   4,860   10   10   10   10   10        49        61           -      -
ACCOUNTS ASSISTANT                    4   2,700   11   11   11   il   11        54        68           -      -
ACCOUNTS CLERK                        2   1,900    4    4    4    4    4         19       24           -      -
TRAVEL. ALLOWANCE                     -       -    3    3    3    3    3        15        19           -      -
SUB TOTAL                            -       -  186  186  186  186  186    934    1,169            640      55
2.VEHICLE OPERATING COST
CARS                                  2   3,850    8    8    8    8    8        39        49         25      51
EQUIPMENT                             -   1,000    1    1    1    1    1         5         6           3     50
SUB TOTAL                          -              9    9    9    9    9       44        55         28      51
TOTAL OF'ERATING COST                -       -  195  195  195  195  195    978    1,224            668      55
TOTAL BASE COST                      -           214  211  195  195  211  1,029    1,288           724      56  
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               -       -    3    3    1    1    3        10        12           8     67   a,
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  -       -   23   45   63   80  123    342          428        220      51
_ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -  - - - - -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   -       -  240  259  259  284  337  1 r 381    is728          952      55   o
_ _ _ _ _-   - - - - - -  - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - -



72                            ANNEX 1
Table T-ll
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transfer of Operating Costs to Recurrent Budget
Unit    PY I      PY 2     PY 3      PY 4      PY 5
Extension 1/
Base Operating Costs         K '000   381        505       518      527       531
Physical Contingencies        K '000     4        14        15       15        15
Price Contingencies          K '000    43        119       187      261       339
Sub-Total                K '000   428        638      720       803       885
Livestock Development 2/
Base Operating Costs         K '000   162        316       368      368       389
Physical Contingencies       K '000    10         22        27       28        30
Price Contingencies          K '000    19         78       138      185       260
Sub-Total                K '000   191       416       533       581      679
Administration 3/
Base Operating Costs          K '000   195       195       195      195       195
Physical Contingencies        K '000     1         1         1        1         1
Price Contingencies           K '000    22        45        69       94       122
Sub-Total                K '000   218        241      265       290       318
TOTAL                          837    1,295    1,518    1,674    1,882
Financed from Development
Budget:  %                      %      100        80        60       40        20
: Amount               K '000   837    1,036        911      670       376
Financed from Recurrent
Budget:  %                      %        -        20        40       60        80
: Amount               K '000      -      259       607    1,004    1,506
1/  Costs from Table T-5.
21 Costs from Table T-6.
31 Costs from Table T-10.
July 8, 1981



ANNEX 1
Table T-12
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US$ '000)
Bank Group FY            IDA Quarterly             IDA Cumulative
and Quarter             Disbursement               Disbursement
FY 82 Q4 2/
FY 83 Ql                       300                        300
Q2                      300                        600
Q3                      400                      1,000
Q4                      400                      1,400
FY 84 Q1                     1,000                      3,400
Q2                    1,000                      3,400
Q3                    1,000                      4,400
Q4                    1,000                      5,400
FY 85 Ql                    1,100                      6,500
Q2                    1,100                      7,600
Q3                    1,100                      8,700
Q4                    1,000                      9,800
FY 86 Ql                    1,100                     10,900
Q2                    1,100                     12,000
Q3                    1,100                     13,100
Q4                    1,100                     14,200
FY 87 Ql                     1,000                    15,200
Q2                    1,000                     16,200
Q3                      800                     17,000
Q4                      500                     17,500
FY 88 Ql                       500                    18,000
1/  Assuming that the Credit would be signed in December 1981 and
would become effective in April 1982.
2/ Quarter of effectiveness.
July 6, 1981



-74-                                            ANNEX 1
Table T-13
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Present Cropping Patterns
(Traditional Sector)
No. of                                                                        Total
Farm            1/  Sun-    Ground-             Sorghum/                     Cropped    Total
Farmer Category        Units    Maize -  flower    nuts    Soybean  Millet   Cotton   Beans   per Farm  Cropped
---- -    --------------------------   Hectares  ---------------------------------------
H                    6,000    0.40(L)    -           0.01       -       0.40       -       0.01      0.82      4,920
A'                  10,000    1.00(L)    -           0.20       -        -         -       0.02      1.22    12,200
A"                    7,000    0.46(L)    -          0.05       -       0.60      0.10     0.01      1.22      8,540
B'                  30,000    2.00(l.2L) -           0.60       -        -         -       0.02      2.62    78,600
(0.8H)
B"                   2,000    1.00(L)    -           0.20       -       0.20     1.20      0.02      2.62      5,240
C                   10,000    6.00(1.4L) 0.5w        0.70      0.03      -       0.05      0.02      7.30    73,000
(4.6H)
Total           65,000  137,620    5,000        27,180      300  7,000      1,170    1,170        -      182,500
B. Future Cropping Patterns
(Traditional Sector)
H                            0.48(L)       -         0.01       -       0.50        -       0.01     1.00
A'                           1.22(0.74L) 0.1'       0.25       -        -          -      0.03      1.60
(0.48H)
A"                           0.65(0.42L)  -          0.10       -       0.60       0.20    0.05      1.60
(0.23H)
B'                           2.3 (0.72L) 0.15        0.70       -        -          -       0.05     3.20
(1.58H)
B"                           1.4 (0.80L) 0.20        0.20       -        -         1.35    0.05       3.20
(0.60H)
C                            7.1 (0.86L) 0.70        0.80      0.10      -         0.10      -       8.80
(6.24H)
1/  L = local maize; H = hybrid maize
October 19, 1981



-75 -                                                        I
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Practices and Yields Without Project -
Seed               Fertilizer (kg/ba)                        Yield (kg/ha)
Farmer       --_
Crop           Category      Amount (kg/ha)       Variety      Basal (X)   Top (A/N)  Pesticide          (1)           (2)
Maize                    H                15         100% Local          -            -             -           630           -
A'               15         100% Local          -            -            -            900           -
A"               15         100% local          -            -            -            810           -
B'               15         60% Local           -           75            -         1,400            -
15        40% Hybrid         75            75            -                      2,000
B"               15         100% Local          -           75            -         1,170            -
C                20         23% Local           -           75            -         1,400
20         77% Hybrid        75            75      10kg DDT(5%)    -            2,500
Sorghum/Millet           H                15         Local               -            -             -           500           -
A"               15         Local               -            -             -           600           -
B"               15         Local               -            -            -           ,900           -
Groundnuts               H                70         Local               -            -             -           300           -
Al               70         Natal Common        -            -             -           300           -
A"               70         Local               -            -             -           300           -
B'               70         Natal Common        -            -            -            300           -
B"               70         Local               -            -            -            300           -
C                80         Natal Common        -            -            -            350           -
Cotton                   A"               20         Chilala             -            -        3 packs          600           -
B"               20         Chilala             -            -        4 packs          750           -
C                20         Chureza           100            -        4 packs          700           -
Sunflower                C                 8         Composite          50            -            -            500           -
Beans                    H                45         Local               -            -             -           240           -
A'               50         Local               -            -            -            240           -
A"               45         Local               -            -            -            240           -
B'               50         Local               -            -            -           260            -
B"               45         Local               -            -            -           240            -
C                50         Local               -            -            -           270            -
Soybean                  C                70         Gedula              -            -             -           600           -
1/ Tables S.2, S.5 and S.8 through S.15 refer.
February 26, 1981



-76-                                         ANNEX 1
Table T-15
ZANBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aaricultural Practices and Yields With Profect
Farmer
Crop                Category                     Seed                 Fertilizer (kg/ha)           Pesticide         Yield  (kg/ha)
Amount (kg/ha)      Variety         Basal            TOP                             (1)     (2)
(X)            (A/N)
Maize                  H              20 kg         lOOZ Local          -                -                -             900
A' l                          60% Local          -             75 kg (1)           -
40% Hybrid      100 kg (2)      100 kg (2)           -          1,400   2,000
A"                            64% Local          -             75 kg (1)           -
36% Hybrid      100 kg (2)      100 kg (2)           -          1,260   1,800
B'               "            31Z Local          -             75 kg (1)           -
69% Hybrid      175 kg (2)      175 kg (2)   10 kg DDT (5%)   2,000   3,000
B"                            57% Local          -             75 kg (1)           -
43% Hybrid      100 kg (2)      100 kg (2)   10 kg DDT(5%)    1,800   2,500
C                             12% Local          -             75 kg (1)   10 kg DDT(5%)+
88% Hybrid      175 kg (2)      175 kg (2)   10 kg Furadan(2) 2,200   3,200
Sorghum/Millet         H              15 kg          Local              -                 50               -            650
A"               "              "                -                75               -          1,000
B"               "              "                -                75               -          1,000
Groundnuts             H              70 kg          Local              -                 -                -            350
A'             70 kg       Natal Connon          -                -                -            400
A"             70 k           Local              -                -                -            350
B'             80 kg       Natal Comon           -                -                -            400
B"             80 kg         Local               -                -                -            375
C              80 kg       Natal Common          -                -                -            450
Cotton                 A"             20 kg          Chilala             -                -            4 packs        1,000
B"             20 kg          Chilala         200 kg              -            5 packs        1,300
C              20 kg          Chureza         200 kg              -            5 packs        1,200
Sunflower              A'              8 kg          Composite        50 kg               -                -            400
B'              8kg              "             75 kg              -                -            500
B"              8kg              "             75 kg              -                -            500
C               8 kg          Giant           200 kg              -                -          1,000
Beans                  H              45 kg          Local               -                -                -            300
A'             50 kg             "               -                -                -            320
A"             45 kg             "               -                -                -            300
B'             50 kg             "               -                -                -            320
B"             45 kg             "               -                -                -            300
C              50 kg             "                                -                -            400
Soybeans               C              80 kg          Geduld           250 kg              -                -          1,100
(+ inocculant)
(1) refers to local maize.
(2) refers to hybrid maize.



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production -
(m Tons)
Project Year
1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9        10       11       12      13       14       15        16       17
Local Maize               -        -        107      139      688   1,188   1,688   2,189   2,689   3,189   3,690   4,190   4,584   4,859   5,003   5,003   5,003
iybrid Maize              -        -      1,683   5,233  10,841  18,731  26,616  34,506  42,397  50,284  58,171  68,912  72,260  76,606  86,356  86,356  86,356
Sunflower                 -        -          63     200      415       718   1,020   1,322   1,625   1,927   2,229   2,532   2,769   2,806   3,023   3,023   3,023
Jroundnuts                -        -         41      127      264      456      648      840   1,032   1,224   1,416   1,608   1,759   1,865   1,920   1,920   1,920
3eans                     -        -       (0.2)   (0.8)   (1.7)         (3)      (4)      (5)      (7)      (8)      (9)     (10)     (11)     (12)     (13)     (13)      (13)
3orghum/Millet            -        -          10      32       66      114      163      211       259      307      355      404      442      468      482      482      482
'otton                    -        -         40      124      257      444      631      819   1,005   1,193   1,380   1,568   1,714   1,818   1,871   1,871   1,871
,oybeans                  -        -           9      27       56       97      138      178      219       260      301      342      374      396      408      408      408    4
1/  Derived from data in Tables S.16 and S.17.
?ebruary 20, 1981
II,



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Province Livestock Population and Offtake Rate-
1968    1969/70   1971/72   1972/73   1974/75    1976         1977      1l7 ts      1979
Cattle Population (Trad.) 2/   486,835   559,405   603,720   637,847   782,252   665,605   720,657   742,851   802,388
Cattle Sales                         -      42,137    39,115    60,252    23,661    31,390    24,775    41,420    36,277
% Offtake 3                          -         7.5        6.5        6.4       5.0        5.6        3.5        5.6       3.6
Cattle Population (Com.)             -     102,221        -          -         -          -      151,000   163,182   167,042
% Offtake (Com.)A-/                  -          17                                                              -         -
oo
1/ Source: Southern Province Annual Agricultural Reports.
2/ 61% increase in traditional herd population over an eleven-year period (1968-1979) is equal to a 5.5% annual increase.
increase.
3/ Offtake dropped from a high 7.5 in 1969 to 5.0 in 1979.
4/  The only accurately reported record of specific offtake rate for commercial farmers was 17% in 1969.
December 29, 1980
I X
IA -.



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Camh Flow of Tamcal fAllheoder L-vestock Oper tion (25-30 iead)
(1,ach.a
Present
Item                           --Situation  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10  Year 11  Year 12-20
I.  Without Proiect
Cattle Sales  /                          370       460      400       410       450        510       510      520        520      520        520       520       520
Value of Oxen Retained                1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,300              1,300    1,300    1,300
Gross Value                           1.570    1.660    1.600    1.610    1.750    1.810    1.810    1.820    1.820    1,820    1.820    1.820    1,820
Operating Costs Without Proiect
Dip Fees (K2 Head)                        42        42       42        44        44        45        45        46         46       46        46         46        46
Animal Health 2/                         190       190       190      200        203      205       205       205        205       205       205       205       205
Total Operating Costs                   232       232       232       244       247       250       250       251       251       251       251       251       251
Net Return from Cash Sales              138       228       168       166       203       260       260       269       269       269       269        269       269
Net Value of Sales + Oxen             1.338    1,428    1.368    1.366    1,503    1560    1,560    1                 1,569    1,569    1,569    1,569    1,569
II.  With Project
Cattle Sales 1/                          370      480       400       430       470       580       550       610        650      660        680       680       680
Value of Oxen Retained                1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,300    1,300    1,300    1,400    1,400    1,500    1,600    1,700    1,700
Gross Value                           1.570    1.660    1,600    1,630    1,770    1,880    1,850    2,010    t,0o0    2,160    2,280    Z.280    2.380
Operating Costs With Project
Dip Fees (K2 Head)                        42        42       42        44        45        45         46       47         50        50        50        50        50
Animal Health 2/                         190       190       250      250        250       266       270       280       290       300       300       300       300
Total Operating Costs                   232       232       292       294       295       311       316       327        340      350        350       350       350
Net Return From Cash Sales               138       228       108      180        175      269       234        283      310        310       330       330       330
Net Value of Sales + Oxen         1. 338  1.428    1,308    1.336  1.475  1.569    1.534    1.683    1710    1,810 1. 930  2.030 
III.  Incremental Return With Project
From Cash Sales                          -         -         (60)       14       (28)       (9)      (26)       14        41        41        60        60        60
Value  of Oxen Retained                  -         -          -         -         -        -          -        100       100      200        300       400       400
Total Incremental Value                  -            -      (60)      14        (28)      g2          6       1l4       141      241       360        460       460
IV. Family Labor Required 2/
Without Project Manday P.A.              122       122       122       122       124       125       125       125       125       125       125       125       125
Return Per M4anday from Cash Sales K 1.13        1.87      1.38      1.26      1.64      2.24      2.08      2.15      2.15      2.15      2.15       2.15      2.15
With Project Manday P.A.                 122       122       124       125       130       135       135       135       135       140       140       140       140               '
Return Per Manday Cash Sales K         1.13      1.87      2.35      2.35      2.27      2.30      2.34      2.42      2.52      2.51      2.51       2.51      2.51
1/  From Tables   _ 4_, Herd Projections With and Without Project.
2/  Vaccines, veterinary supplies, salts and sundries.  Without Project Kl 0.00 per L.U./year; With Project K 13.00 per L.U./year.
3/  Estimated hours per year for 24-30 head of cattle - 1100 hours herding and other care.  Incremental hours due to Increased
dipping and added health care 162 hours: 1100 hours - 122 mandays; 1262 hours = 140 mandays.
May 20, 1981



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value of Incremental Livestock Production
(K '000)
Present
Situation       1        2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9        10         11-20
Province Traditional Herd
Herd growth without
Project (000 LU)            695         695      700      730      734      741      745      748      750      750      750         750
Herd growth with
Project (000 LU)            695         695      700      730      742      750      760      775      792      800     800          800
Livestock Sales Without
Steers and culls          12,200      15,100  13,200  13,500  14,900  17,600  16,900  17,300  17,300  17,300  17,300               17,300
Value of oxen retained
on farms                 40,000      4        40,000  40,000  43,000  43,000  43,000  43 000  43,000  43,000   43 000            43 000
Total        52,200      55,100  53,200  53,500  57,900  60,600  59,900  60,300  60,300  60,300  60,300              60,300
Livestock Sales With                                                                                                                       0
Proj  ct
Steers and culls          12,200      15,100  13,200  14,300  15,800  19,300  16,600  20,100  20,800  21,000  21,000               21,000
Value of oxen retained
on farms                 40,000      40,000  40,000  43,800  43,800  43  800          43    ,800  44        4        48,300       48,300
Total        52,200      55,100  53,200  58,100  59,600  63,100  60,400  63,900  65,600  67,800  69,300              69,300
Incremental Value of
Cash Sales                 -            -        -        800      900   1,700      (300)  3,100   3,500   3,700   3,700           3,700
Incremental Value of
Oxen Retained              -            -        -      3,800      800      800     800      800   1,800 380 50                   5,300
Total Incremental Value   -              -        -      4,600   1,700   2,500        500   3,900   5,300   7,500   9,000           9,000
Mav 20, 1981
H A
'0ID



a                                             . ,z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tbo T-2
z~~~~~                                                                   oJ .. 
o 00  00              0o        00  $0         0 0       OrC            001  o0        00     r        C yt8_O  0. o   s4 ,0081S g >s .0A.
_   ' O             -   0.0 ^_.      0A000       4    . 0 z.            00            00              00  0l   C    oN_~ _   
-c                    0    00  00  CO   00 0    0000                    CO  COr .t               Cot  CO o>Nrse<rv    rNSD3t C 00 6
{~~~~.                               C0         *.       .0  .0  ._  N.   N0   N    a..    0 .
E~~~~~~~~.   =4. .0 _        _0
a ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    0 .0 OC .0 N0 N0                                                                 -          N0  4
S~~~~~-    e    e0   I    I N                                   o                 00                  3X        000._0 t0_    n0N_|    NeNe_  
.3               .00                                               ,0                      0      .0           e0   f 0._0_
0                                                                         d s         X  C  0 .  .. 0 .  0 .  0             g c 0 .  C l  
01  0           e                                                                                                                                 .  N. e0
z2 ~   ~     ~     .   .0  IG E .                              00      0
0  4  0                         10_       '-  R0                "0    0    .0   0    -                       R    0  N      .0         0  RN 5-Y
104                                                                                                                                                 0   H
;! ~ ~    ~     ~     0           C                 00 0_   ,   C _  C       4               e0<S            S    Q      



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross and Net Naturt., by Crop, by Flrn and Total
(Net Returns in Paresthenis)
Farner    No. af FarBer    No. of Ineovator Farners                Maize                                                     Sorghur/                          Total per    Total at Futt D-veloprent,
Category         Uaita        at FPll Deelop-ent (PY 15)  Local   Hybrid  Sunflower    Groned-eot                 Soybean .    Milet   Cotton        Bears        Farr              .a11 Isovaes
A. Withest Project
N             6,000                    2,693                 38                                     1                         42                   1         . 82                      219,749
(37)                                  (1)                        (39)                 (1)         (77)                   (207.361)
A'           10,000                    4,040                135                                    24                                              1           160                     647,208
(119)                                 (15)                                             (1)        (135)                   (544,188)
A"             7,000                    2,693                56                                     6                         76         27        1           16S                     "3,806
(48)                                  (4)                        (63)      (19)       (-)        (134)                   (361,939)
B'           30,000                   12,118                252       240                          72                                              1           563                  6,851,517
(225)    (185)                        (49)                                             (1)        (460)                 (5,574,280)
B"            2,000                    1,346                176                                    24                         38       401         1           639                     860,094
(155)                                 (17)                        (35)    (283)        (1)        (491)                   (660,213)
C            10,000                    4,040                294    1,725             69            98              5                     16        1        2,208                   8,918,300
(259)  (1,348)           (52)         (68)            (3)                   (10)       (1)      (1,741)                 (7.031.620)
Total       65,000                   26,930                                                                                                                                       17,940,674
(14,379,601)
B. With Pro-ect
h             6,000                    2,693                 65                                     1                         68                   1           135                     364,363
(63)                                  (1)                        (60)                 (1)        (124)                   (334,201)
A'           10,000                    4,040                155       144            11           40                                               2           353                  1,425,716
(142)    (102)            (7)         (29)                                             (2)        (282)                 (1,137,664)
A"            7,000                    2,693                 79        62                          14                        106         90        4           356                     958,169
(72)      (42)                       (10)                        (86)      (69)       (3)        (282)                   (758,618)
B'           30,000                   12,118                216       711            21           112                                              4        1,064                  12,891,128
(197)    (520)           (15)         (82)                                             (3)        (817)                 (9,902,830)
B"            2,000                     1,346               216       225            27            30                                   794        4        1,296                   1,744,281
(195)     (171)          (20)         (22)                                 (574)       (3)        (985)                 (1,325,272)
C            10,000                    4,040                284    2,995            192           144             31                     54                 3,700                  14,946,788
(261)  (2,043)          (142)        (109)           (17)                    (38)               (2,610)                (10.543.996)
Total       65,000                   26,930                                                                                                                                       32,330,445
(24,002,581)
C.  Incroe-etsl
0             6,000                    2,693                     27                                 _                         26                                54                     144,614
(26)                              (-)                       (21)                 (-)          (47)                   (126,840)
A'           10,000                    4,040                     164                 11            16                                              1           193                     778,508
(125)                (7)          (14)                                            (1)         (147)                   (593,476)
A"            7,000                    2,693                      86                       .        8                         30         64        3           191                     514,363
(66)                              (6)                       (22)       (51)      (2)         (147)                   (396,679)
B'           30,000                   12,118                    435                  21            40                                              3           498                  6,039,611
(307)               (15)          (33)                                            (2)         (357)                (4,328,550)
B"            2,000                    1.346                    266                  27             6                        -38        393        3           657                     884,187
(211)               (20)           (5)                      (-35)    (291)        (2)         (494)                   (665,059)
C            10,000                    4,040                  1,260                 123            46             26                     39       -I        1,492                   6,028,488
(697)               (90)          (42)           (14)                   (28)    (-1)          (869)                (3.512,376)
Total       65,000                   26,930                                                                                                                                       14,389,771
(9,622,980)
Source: Tablen S-2, S-8, S-9,.S-10, S-11, S-12, S-13, S-14, S-15, S-16.
Note:    Lack of entry reass crop  -ot groon.  A dauh (-               I noesn lens  than 0.5.
May 11, 1981



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTTJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow of the Project
(Million Kwacha)
_________________----------- Year ----------------------------
1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9     10      11
Cash Inflows
IDA Credit                           .8   2.7   3.5   3.6   3.1    .7        -      -     -      -      _
Taxes                               0.0   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Loan Repayment (SPCMU & ZADB) 1/   .1    .2    .5    .8    .9   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1
Total Cash Inflows              .9   3.0   4.2   4.6   4.1   1.9   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
Cash Outflows
00
Project Costs 2/                    2.5   3.7   4.1   4.2   5.1   2.9   3.0   3.4   4.6   5.7   6.7
Debt Servicing 3/                     -      -    .1    .1    .1    .1    .1    .1    .1    .1    .3
Total Cash Outflows            2.5   3.7   4.2   4.3   5.2   3.0   3.1   3.5   4.7   5.8   7.0
Net Government Cash Flow             (1.6)  (.7)   -       .3  (1.1) (1.1) (1.9) (2.3) (3.5) (4.6) (5.8)
Cumulative Net Cash Flow             (1.6) (2.3) (2.3) (2.0) (3.1) (4.2) (6.1) (8.4)(11.9)(16.5)(22.3)
1/  Assuming total loans to SPCMU and ZADB (K7.9 million) have same terms of 20 years to repay, 5 years
grace on repayment of principal, and 11% per annum interest.
2/ Includes a 20% subsidy on incremental fertilizer (para. 7.07).
3/ Includes a service charge on the IDA Credit with repayment commencing Year 11.
July 8, 1981



SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Flows 1/
(Million Kwacha)
________________----------- Year ---------------------------
1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9      10     11
Inflows:
IDA Credit                           .8   2.7   3.5   3.6   3.1    .7         -     -      -       -     -
Import savings and export
earnings on agric. produce 2/       -      -    .5   1.6   3.7   6.8   10.3  14.1  18.3   23.1  28.5
Savings of fertilizer losses         -      -     -    .1    .2    .3        .4    .4    .4       .4    .4
Savings of produce losses            -      -    .1    .1    .2    .2        .4    .4    .4       .6    .7
Total Inflows              .8   2.7   4.1   5.4   7.2   8.0   11.1  14.9  19.1   24.1  29.6
Outflows:                                                                                                              0
F.E. component of Project costs  1.1   1.6   1.9   2.0   2.4   2.9    3.7   4.8   6.4    8.1   9.7
IDA Credit servicing 3/              -      -      -    .1    .1    .1       .1    .1    .1       .1    .3
Total Outflows            1.1   1.6   1.9   2.1   2.7   3.5    4.2   4.9   6.5    8.1  10.0
Net Foreign Exchange Flows           (.3)  1.1   2.2   3.3   4.5   4.5    6.9  10.0  12.6   16.0  19.6
Cumulative F.E.                      (.3)   .8   3.0   6.3  10.8  15.3   22.2  32.2  44.8   60.8  80.4
1/ Expressed in current terms.
2/  On the basis of incremental production as in Table T-16, import/export parity prices of crops
calculated at official exchange rate, and inflation rates of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in
1983-85, and 6% in 1986 and thereafter.
3/  Based on 30-year repayment period with 10 years grace, .75% p.a. service charge.
MJl 
July 8, 1981



ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Extension and Training                                                  Credit          Project
Project      and Livestock a/         Input Delivery b/   Produce Storage        Development   Administration        Total
Year     Costs          Benefits    Costs   Benefits   Costs c/  Benefits         Costs d/         Costs        Costs  Benefits
............................................... .K '000......
1      1549               -        338       -          71          -             71             244          2273        -
2      1690           -2585        504       -         453          -             68             240          2955   -2585
3      1650            1113        504       -         472         72             75             220          2921    1185
4      2197             196        296     166          79        156             55             220          2847     518
5      2984            2591        -41     173          79        167             70             210          3302    2931
6      3943            3987        -44     184          .         178             42              14          4034    4349
7      4617            7878        -46     194          *         193             42              14          4647    8265
8      5320           11201        -49     205          *         220             42                          5406   11626
9      6602           13198        -50     210                    257             42                          6687   13665
10      7764           16315        -50     210          .         350             70              .           7877   16875
11      8930           18455                  .          .         369             42                          9015   19034
12      9681           21175                  .          .         369             42                          9766   21754
13     10213           22277         .          *        *                         42                         10298   22856
14     10793           23099         .        *                                    42                         10878   26169
15     10673           25590                                                       70 *                       10786   26169
16     10883           25590                                                       42                         10968
17     10718                         .        .          .          .              42              .          10803
18     10567                         .        .          .          .              42                         10652
19     10514             .           .       .           .          .              42              .          10599
20     10674           25590        -50     210          79        369             70              14         10787   26169
IERR            31%                     11%                   16%                                                   27%
a/ The costs of the Extension and Training component exclude the services of oxen employed on owners' own crops, but
include the costs of animal husbandry activities of the extension service, while the benefits of the component
include the additional crop production made possible in part by the services of oxen; on balance, this component's
ERR (50%) overstates the true ERR for the largely crop-oriented extension activities. Likewise, the benefits of
the Livestock component exclude the same services of oxen employed on owners' own crops, and the costs exclude the
costs of animal husbandry activities of the extension service; on balance, this component's ERR (8%) understates
the true ERR for livestock activities.  This is why the two components have been combined for the economic
analysis.
b/ The aspect of input delivery analysed in this Table is the input storage operations.
c/ The only operating costs of incremental produce storage analysed in this Table are the maintenance costs of civil
works (hard standings and ancillary facilities) and the staff salaries of the proposed storage depots. For
analytical purposes, the 'without project' situation is presumed to accommodate the necessary produce handling
equipment and all other operating costs for storing incremental produce in temporary stacks.
d/ The credit costs included here for analysis of the Project ERR are restricted to the costs of strengthening
SPCMU's ability to administer credit, and hence exclude the incremental credit funds provided under the    
Project.
Note:  All values are in January 1981 prices.
July 6, 1981



86
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key To Locations Shown on Map IBRD 15606
(Existing and Proposed Agricultural Stations and Camps by District)
Camp
District         Station     No. 1/   Staffed          Vacant        No. 1/
Choma            Mapanza      1        Mangunza                       1.1
Dundwa                        1.2
Simaubi                       1.3
Malindi                       1.4
Nalube                        1.5
Mapanza                       1.6
Kabanze       1.7
(Kachenje)   1.8
Singani     2         Batoka                        2.1
Siamuleya                     2.2
Mbaole                        2.3
Siakacheka                    2.4
Nakempa                       2.5
Masuku                        2.6
Namuswa                       2.7
Siasikabole                   2.8
Gamela                        2.9
(Singani)    2.10
(Siakacheka-
Macha)    2.11
Mbabala      3        Mbabala                       3.1
Sedumbwe                      3.2
Kabimba                       3.3
Macha                         3.4
(Sikufweba)  3.5
Pemba       4         Demu                          4.1
Kasiya                        4.2
Kasikili                      4.3
Munyona                       4.4**
Moyo                          4.5
Muzoka                        4.6
Ndondi                        4.7
Kanchombe                     4.8
Makombe       4.9
(Chirundu)   4.10
(Hajamba)    4.11
For notes and footnotes see last page of this listing.



87
ATTACHMENT
Page 2
Gwembe           Sinazongwe  5          Siameja                       5.1
- South                               Sinazeze                       5.2
Kanchindu                     5.3
Kafwambila   5.4
Sulwegonde                    5.5
Nkandabwe                     5.6
Mwezia                        5.7
Chiabi        5.8
Buleyamalima                  5.9**
Malima                        5.10
Mwamajoke    5.11**
(Siampondo)  5.12
(Sianzovu)   5.13
(Muchekwa)   5.14
(Sinankumbi) 5.15
- Central        Munyumbwe   6         Munyumbwe                      6.1
Sompami                       6.2
Chipepo                       6.3
Lukonde       6.4
Bboondo                       6.5
Luumbo                        6.6
Chaamwe                       6.7
Bunyete                       6.8
Sinafala                      6.9**
(Chisanga)   6.10
- North          Siavonga    7          Lusitu                        7.1
Lusitu Sub center             7.2
Simamba                       7.3
Jamba                         7.4
Siangwemu                     7.5
Chilindi      7.6
Kayani        7.7
Sikongo       7.8
Siamwinga                     7.9
Changa                        7.10
Sianyolo                      7.11
Chikanzaya   7.12**
(Matinangala)7.13
Kalomo           Siachetema  8          Siachetema                    8.1
Nantale                       8.2
Chifusa                       8.3
Bilili                        8.4
Katete                        8.5
Kalonda                       8.6*
For notes and footnotes see last page of this listing.



88
ATTACHMENT
Page 3
Chilala     9         Chilala                       9.1
Mabombo                      9.2
Siabunkululu                 9.3
Munyeke                       9.4
Chinkoyo    10        Chinkoyo                     10.1
Mulamfu                     10.2
Chidi                        10.3
Luyaba                      10.4
Njabalombe                  10.5
Siamafumba  10.6
Musika                      10.7*
Kanchele    11        Kanchele                     11.1
Dimbwe                      11.2
Sipatunyana 11.3
Siambala                    11.4**
Sikweya                     11.5
Chuundwe    11.6**
(Simalundu) 11.7**
(Syejumba)  11.8**
(Masempela) 11.9**
(Siantete)  11.10**
(Maziba)    11.11**
(Nakabanga) 11.12**
Livingstone      Zimba       12        Zimba                        12.1
Katapasi                    12.2
Manyemunyemu                12.3**
(Mayoba)    12.4
(Siakasipa) 12.5
Nyawa       13        Nyawa                        13.1
Kauwe                       13.2
Malimba                      13.3
Simango     14                        Simango      14.1
Kabuyu                       14.2
Musokotwani                 14.3
Livingstone 15        Livingstone                  15.1
Mukuni          (Simonga)   15.3
Mukunka      16                       Makunka      16.1
Sihumbwa                    16.2
Kanchele                    16.3
Ngwezi                      16.4
Mambova      17       Mambova                      17.1
Sikaunzwe                   17.2**
Mandia                      17.3**
Vnr "nraac nnA foratnntac caa l nct nnao nf th;ic: l ictino-



89
ATTACMENT
Page 4
Moomba
(vacant)   18                        (1Moouiba)    18.
Mazabuka        Mapangazia  19         Nadezwe                      19.1
Simutwe                     19.2
Molando                      19,3
Namembo                      19.4
(Dundu)     19.5
(Ngangula)  19.6
Nansenga    20        Nansenga                     20.1
Siamatuli                   20 2
Nalwana     20.3
Chaya        20.4
(Nanduba)   20.5
C.hikanfi)   20.6
Munenga     21        Kalama                       21.4
Mbiya                        21.2
Chalimbana                   21,3
Chizio                       21.4
Itebe       21.5
Magoye East 22        Munjile                      22.1
Maunga                       22.2
Chivuna                      22.3
Nkonkola                     22.4
Nanchengwa                  22.5
Chijanwa    22.6
Monze            Monze-North 23
(Nteme)              Nteme                        23.1
Chungu                       23.2
Keemba                      23.3
Malundu                      23.4
Bwengwa                      23D5
Siamasankwa                 23.6*;
Nataurda    22,76i*
lanats ia a   23.78
Monze           Monze-East  24         Kaumba                       2*
(Kaumba)            Muliga/Mujika                24Q.2
Ntamn'       24- *
Lweeta                      24.4
ia-mateba    24 .
Moomba      24.6
Njola                        24.7
Namakube                     24.8
Chiyobola  2,4. 9
Chisuvo                      24.10
For notes and footnotes see last DaRe of this listinz.



90
ATTACHMENT
Page 5
Monze-West  25        Siakasenke                   25.1
(Siakasenke)         Hufwa                       25.2
Sikalinda                   25.3
Katimba                     25.4
Bbomba                      25.5
Hamapande                   25.6**
Siatontola                  25.7
Siamazongo                  25.8*
(Hamangaba)     **
(Nachibuli)     **
(Mahiba)        **
(Nampeyo)       **
(Chisuvo) 2/                         Chiyobola   24.9
(Mulongalwili) **
Chisuvo                      24.10
(Simwendengwe) **
Namakube                    24.8
Namwala         Kabulam-
wanda      26        Kabulamwanda                 26.1
Kantengwa                   26.2
Maala                       26.3
Ngabo 3/    26.4
Namwala                      26.5
Baambwe 3/                  26.6
Chitongo    27        Chitongo                     27.1
Bwizu                       27.2
Nakamboma                    27.3*
Masompe                     27.4
Muchila     28                        Muchila      28.1
Muchila Settlement           28.2
Mobola                      28.3
Ndema                       28.4**
Ichilla 3/  28.5**
Kabwe                       28.6**
Basanga     29                        Basanga      29.1
Luchena                     29.2
Luubwe                      29.3
Namwala          Banamwaze   30                        Banamwaze   30.1
Babizhi     30.2**
For notes and footnotes see last page of this listing.



91                        ATTACHMENT
Page 6
Makuuku     30.3
TKaangwa    30.4
TS h 4.,m-a s h-
ikw.e)    305**
N aMayo Vu)' -' *
Notes and Footnotes
Note 1. The above listing serves as numerical key to locations shown in Map IBRD
15606.  The actual list was coipiled from inforamtion provided by district
staff (DAO's) and provincial staff. Locations were determined with the use
of 3 basic sources:
(a)  The June 1975 map, titled "Agricultural Camps", scale 1:500,000,
complied by F.T. Nelson.
(b)  The October 1962 map sheet 01:50,000) compiled and drawn by the
Survey Department, Lusaka, titled Map of Southern Province.
(c)  1:250,000 sheets for southern Province, published by the
Surveyor General.
As indicated below, it was not always possible to determine exact or even
approximate locations.  Locations with one asterisk (*) are shown on Map
IBRD 15606, but their accuracy is in doubt, 1ocations followed by two
asterisks (**) could not be shown at all on Map IBRD 15606.
Note 2.  Proposed camps are shoun in the above listing in parentheses and where
possible, they are also shown on the Map. Inclusion in the listing and the
Map does not imply that each and every site will become operative under the
Project. For details see Section 3 of the main working paper on
Agricultural Extension and Training.
Footnotes
1/  Number by which location is identified in Map IBRD 15606.
2/  The Government intends to convert Chisuvo, now an agricultural camp in Monze-E
(see No. 24.10) into a station; it would ha e 5 subordinate camps: 3 existing and
2 new ones.
3/  These camps are supervised directly by the DAO of 1amwala
July 15, 1981



IBRD 15604
,ARE         tANAt'q 47128A 28                                                                                                                                                               MARCH 195]
iFOAN                                           CENTRAL    PROVINCE
ANG.OLA j       At   .<              
ZAMBIA  ."
z tZfvi <                   t                                                                 7                                                                   LUSAKA
1/  r/b                    _ASCAR,)-:'t                                                                                             1 
2"5
914-                                                                     K W
N                                                  N
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ ~~~~~~~~                           a~~~~ley                  Neg. Neg
/ Chitonga        r                   xCidu                                                                         8
t~~ ~~                                          ~      ~~~~~ /                         l\ <T 
CIO
n wembe           ,       <                       ' -'
icivOngO    "Nv,.
t) /  \   '\'               t4S/at <               . /  , S w                ,iv   XS  o/                      .         f  SOUTHERN EPROVINCE 
k 9    X  ---        t    .  ax   g                                     7Xy    ,  ;N.  ~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT;
NAMIBo-Ad-                                                                                                                                                                , roads
qN&SWAsA \  Z  *BABSE  ,  0 0 A .  : E   : E   :   =;  w_;zSC '-c'r roads
inazong~~~~~~~atoalcpia
POInrovicalapia
Dstcndric headqures
0 Other towns crtuk
813  -  RDistr~it ounaretsinmlrnes
0  20  40     90              -   - ~~~~~~~Provincia boudaIe
X1ANGSTONE                                               RlLOstEIc$S                 -   -  lr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dsterictia boundar~ies
20  4P     616      a,0   P~/S5cocorc/,oroi ,'/"'naiolounda r7rieso/o, onrr/i
KILOMETERS                    Intod,<  "'co//rnat5,/'o/ bo9/ef,0bOW oriesok,no
tmB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~//O o c;,ocn oct,o c rn corro,oooJ0  t
BOTS~  ~ ~~ ni/w-vS                                                                                                                                                                            n






~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 15605
i        an0Pt/7    467   ib5                                                                  Z7                                                 Z8-MARC 1981
IF III           A
,_ZAIRE        TANZAN,A                                                                         27                                                                                            IBO150
QCEAtv (  )Z h/Spsg Xt                           CEN TRA Z           PRO V /N CE                                                                                  tn d-
ANGOLA                                                                                                                                                                               Th
ZAMBIA
Nf -        x pjMAAA$,                                                                                                                            LUSAKA
r      r   ZMBA8WE.s,                                                                          :I  
BOTSWANA J,
__  _  f                 o. ,r,, '\               ,." '' 9
N y  **f; 0 _Xs \N
i                                                               \           \             . X   z   1 Magoye.,,1             \/,          y            z      4))    <        4es __zKt
-17- 2 1 / \ Bowwood/// \ 2 ./{; )~~~~~~~~~~~~~Citog                                                                                                                 Chunlu    )    OUHRNP0V 
cs~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
\~~ ~~~ M.7         \                    ayoba    t   /   (f  i                        Srnazeze       ;   / <t~                 CONTOURS AND SPOT ELEVATIONS
<  g  ;Zlmba / E jA yJ/ /< ___07~-'I                                                                                           Oher roads and tracks
X  }  r  \ < 2 i | rl O Cs . 7~~~                                                                                         Railways
~  <   ) / )    -/                         /               XAS                !           tS  / gt-                                     -  Swannps
0  X~~~~~ I  fiNfS  \>    J                   v              9:            9  /<C_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Morphological region boundaries
\~~\.at \ 1028 1q. * ;-;1 pR/;tA . ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                  A<11314  Spot elevations, meters
_ \ 1\; SX 4 _ _.i 2 /o7 69 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National capital
ise esi~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ Dsr,tbonare
NAMIBIA  i .    1              2            \   -                    r                C  74__                                        @~~~~~~~K         Ditrc hAdBIart
/-SOE-.-Provincial boVndaries
imbo                                                  ZIMBAWE,Oth 20   40 bjO -  Iiternatidnal boandaries
ZIMSABWA  \     I        o 0/                                                                               KILOMETERs                                                             18'
25-                         15' Reb   r'; I                                                        27-                                               28-                                      n     ie






I BRD 15606
.ANZA 7                                                                                 27-                                                    28'                                            MARCH 1981
r     ZAI RE
4         I      )f UeaYLSaA    'NllY.4.N'      A                                      CENTRA!               RRO V/N nn.                                                                      .,SmEaphaSE bePcprapaVdbyrPE
ANGOLA j                                                                                                                                                                                            h k\1      Ul,. aTd
I-"2   IMALAVW                                                                                                                                                                          Th, d--omma- -,e9r -C
iZAMBIA                                                                                                         -~5   ...--,wdae 5a,0~SS~p
s'< > MADAGAK/                                                                                                                                  LUSAKA          9        0n ags
29'                                                                                                                                    .
Namwala'.  b, ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-.                                Ko~
266                                                                              N ~~~~6 
2510                                        Kabsl aiondo                \ d        ya                      Naeg t 
2   A   t?1    (   )                              y    i28 3 1 3  tW  8           t     M     e e)  24 2-44    *                  2     2     >        /                )   , rt   3    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 1 
<0                                                                                                                                                                          0204s  (                     N33 l 1     <zB 6/5 oo
C t ~~~~~~~.'Chirvodu   io
I......~~~~ CI, *B                                                                                                 020' bbxi   |iX1         \t     6
225                       @19 B 3.~                      27)"' j     ,'1  4
-17a                                                                                                                                                     22|\Bwp,  0 7226 tX    -~
Muchil.  10261   ?             / 1            20    *    297*  . 1 1                         19                                12k) P
21 16st    0           nza.,                                                                                                  co\  -  / ~   tS    Vaconr   ---Oth0roodsot24
/                                                                                                                   N                   *192            79 / 2    2 f
Q:                                                                                                      apanzaN2 \ WliR   3it  ' X ' 9 i :   ::   : ::   f   ;:::  :'   ':;     t!lcTME0tefs   
0        A,-                          125                     es-
0                                             m~~~~~ wrbe   7Rs W 
B4                  9~~44            Mblabala    (4      @1/o--~-04                                                        a-.
142)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M loe                                                                              chrna                    tok
Z, ~ ~     ~          ~         ~ ~ ~                                     *60 bO/ZMI
L                                                                         2 30t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                    J7<'L'6ll    L,2121
13.2  Ko ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-  /Ariutra  tain2                                                               on od
r                                        \       /SineezendaTHEN  PoYIds
I.'                                                             7                     A     Vacant                           Other roadsAGRICULTraALs
k"                                                             tLo~~~~~~~~Arclurlcnpl  .-.-.-Riwy
~~~~~~~2         2.    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~~rooe                                          oioa   aia
12,  10.!i            )~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                   Safe                              roicilcaia
,3.*3                                                     nz ngW                           :EXISTING  &~~~~~~~~~~~~acat    llRstPct ED ciuat
0  1,                                                                   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              Agricultural dstations            Mai tertoads
0 &2                                                                           A    : staq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~budare  --  iStrc  ondary eos
Staffelnds                       Provincial bonapiesl
NE                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers     -.-Intarnational boundaries
54 0                                  ~~~~~~~~swamps
Z IMBABWE                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20     40    60    50
BOTSWANA                                                                                                                           K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS  6
26'                           To BR'/s.aiYo I                                                              27 ;                                                                                                        O



