Document of
The World Bank   F     COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3113a-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 16, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.25           =  K 1.00
US$1.00           =  K 0.80
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       -  Agricultural Finance Company
CFC       -  Cattle Finance Company
CSB       -  Cold Storage Board
DPB       -  Dairy Produce Board
LINTCO    -  Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
NAMB      -  National Agricultural Marketing Board
PAO       -  Provincial Agricultural Officer
PCUs      -  Provincial Cooperative Unions
PEMO      -  Provincial Extension Management Officer
PPS       -  Provincial Permanent Secretary
RDC       -  Rural Development Corporation
SEC       -  Supervisory and Evaluation Committee
SPCMU     -  Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union Limited
ZADB      -  Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER                      Republic of Zambia
BENEFICIARIES       :         Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union,
Limited (SPCMU) and Zambia Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank (ZADB)
AMOUNT                        SDR 15.9 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
TERMS               :         Standard
RELENDING           :         To SPCMU:  US$8.2 million for infrastructure,
procurement of incremental inputs, vehicles
and staff, for 20 years, including five years
of grace, with interest at not less than 11
percent per annum (SPCMU to provide increment-
al seasonal input requirements to smallholders
on credit with interest at 11 percent per an-
num); and US$0.2 million as a grant for tech-
nical assistance for credit administration.
To ZADB: US$0.6 million for incremental
smallholder credit on terms to be determined
when ZADB becomes operational.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:          The proposed project aims at increasing crop
and livestock production and raising farm in-
come levels in the Southern Province by in-
creasing the use of modern inputs by small-
holders and improving marketing facilities.
It provides for credit to smallholders, im-
provement of input and storage and extension
services, including veterinary services and
tsetse control, and technical assistance for
strengthening SPCMU-s credit administration
capability.
At full development, the project would lead to
increased production of maize, cotton, ground-
nuts, sunflower seed, soybeans and beef. The
realization of expected benefits would depend
on the effectiveness of the implementing agen-
cies and the pace at which farmers adopt im-
proved husbandry practices.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COST:                                   Local   Foreign    Total
~US -000         …
Extension and Training            3,525      1,808    5,333
Livestock Development             1,680      1,417    3,097
Input Delivery & Storage          1,507      2,826    4,333
Produce Storage                     882        974    1,856
Credit Development                  706         77       783
Project Administration              564        724    1,288
Total Base Cost                   8,864      7,826   16,690
Physical Contingencies              502        644    1,146
Price Contingencies               4,008      2,727    6,735
Total Project Cost               13,374    11,197   24,571
FINANCING PLAN: (net of taxes and duties)        Local   Foreign    Total
----- US$ Million ------
IDA                                 6.8       11.2      18.0
Government of Zambia                5.8         -        5.8
Total                              12.6       11.2      23.8
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
Bank FY                       82   83   84   85   86   87   88
---------- US$ Million -------…  -
Annual                        -   1.4  4.0  4.4  4.4  3.3  0.5
Cumulative                    -   1.4  5.4  9.8 14.2 17.5 18.0
RATE OF RETURN:      - 27 percent on overall project investments.
APPRAISAL REPORT:      Report No. 3501-ZA dated October 10, 1981.
MAPS:                  Nos. IBRD 15604, 15605 and 15606.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE SOUTHERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 15.9 million (approximately US$18.0
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance the Southern Province
Agricultural Development Project. Of the proceeds of the credit, the
Government would make a US$0.2 million grant to the Southern Province Coop-
erative Marketing Union (SPCMU) for credit administration; a loan of about
US$8.2 million for infrastructure, procurement of incremental inputs,
vehicles and staff, repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at not less than 11 percent per annum (the Government would assume
the foreign exchange risk). SPCMU would provide seasonal incremental input
requirements to smallholders on credit with interest at 11 percent per
annum. In addition, the Government would make available about US$0.6
million to the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) for smallholder
credit on terms and conditions to be determined when ZADB becomes
operational.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1
2.        With its mineral resources and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though landlocked, has the potential for rapid
and sustained development. Economic and social goals since independence in
1964 have been security of transport routes to the sea, reduction of de-
pendency on copper through agricultural and industrial development, more
equitable distribution of income and expanded educational and training op-
portunities. Progress toward achieving these goals has been below poten-
tial due to structural imbalances in the economy, prolonged turmoil within
the region and, since 1975, a severe economic depression. Increased educa-
tional opportunities and construction of the TAZARA Railway through
Tanzania to Dar-es-Salaam are the main areas in which substantial progress
has been made.
I A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 3007-ZA)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. The most
recent economic data are summarized in Annex I.



- 2 -
3.        The economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on govern-
ment activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent of
GDP. Government expenditures have amounted to about 35 percent of GDP in
recent years, and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most
manufacturing enterprises. Much economic activity is dependent on expatri-
ate technical, managerial and administrative skills. Despite high rates of
savings and investment, real growth has been disappointing, averaging only
about 2.8 percent a year before the onset of the economic depression in
1975.
4.        Diversification efforts have lagged; mining still provides over
90 percent of foreign exchange earnings and 30 percent of gross value ad-
ded. 2 Agriculture accounts for about 10 to 12 percent of GDP, compared
with 14 percent at independence. Manufacturing grew quickly through 1975,
but has since stagnated, due to foreign exchange scarcity and a heavy de-
pendence on imported inputs. Services also grew quickly, to about 35 per-
cent of GDP, due to Zambia's success in expanding education and to increas-
ed government activity. However, income is concentrated in urban areas, as
a result of high wages throughout the modern sector and a progressive
deterioration in the rural-urban terms of trade. These factors have caused
major rural-to-urban migration (about 40 percent of the population is
urban) and unemployment in urban areas.
The Current Economic Crisis
5.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a 40 percent decline in copper prices in 1975. Unremunerative
producer policies, difficulties in transporting goods to and from the sea,
and a recent decline in copper production have exacerbated the situation.
Real GDP stagnated between 1974 and 1978, and declined by 8 percent in
1979, with mining down 19 percent and agriculture down 10 percent. There
was little, if any, growth during 1980. Real GNP per capita (US$556
million in 1980) is 25 percent below that in 1974.
6.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits averaging 8 to 10 percent of GDP. In
spite of heavy external borrowing, a build-up in arrears on import payments
and a draw down on reserves, foreign exchange has been insufficient to
maintain the real value of imports, currently about one-half its level in
1975. As a result, there persists an economy-wide problem of underutiliza-
tion of capacity. This has seriously affected production and investment,
especially in the crucial mining sector which has accumulated a large back-
log of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements contributing directly to
recent declines in copper production and exports.
2 In constant prices. In current prices, however, the contribu-
tion of mining has fallen to about 18 percent of GDP in recent years, due
to low copper prices.



- 3 -
7.        The decline in copper prices severely affected Zambia's fiscal
and monetary positions. Historically, mineral taxes provided a large share
of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976. This
contributed to large fiscal deficits, which required domestic bank
borrowing averaging 13 percent of GDP in 1975-77 and 5 percent in 1978-80.
At first, the shortfall in mineral revenue was perceived to be temporary
and expenditure grew rapidly, in part carried by the momentum of large
capital projects already underway. Subsequently, a successful effort was
made to raise non-mineral revenues, but the positive effects were offset by
large increases in expenditure on defense and subsidies, mostly for maize
imports resulting from poor harvests in 1979 and 1980. Deficit financing
has absorbed 88 percent of net domestic credit creation between 1975 and
1980, and contributed to a sharp rise in domestic prices, averaging 18
percent per annum during 1976-78 and 11 percent per annum in 1979-80.
8.        The Government signed a two-year Standby Agreement of SDR 250
million with the IMF in April 1978. In the event, the Government's recur-
rent account was balanced in 1978, and the balance of payments recorded a
small surplus on current account in 1979. However, once the Standby Agree-
ment expired, the accounts returned to their previous imbalances with in-
creased severity, partly as a result of pent-up demand for imports and
postponed expenditures. A three-year Extended Fund Facility of SDR 800
million was approved in May 1981. It aims at a more gradual but longer-
lasting adjustment process and at balance in the government and external
accounts by 1983. Under the EFF, the Government is committed to eliminate
the maize subsidy and reduce the fertilizer subsidy by the end of 1983; to
increase sorely needed recurrent expenditure for operations and maintenance
in productive sectors; to implement economic pricing for products subject
to price control; to raise agricultural producer prices towards world price
equivalents; to provide a larger share of domestic credit to the private
sector; and to allocate sufficient foreign exchange to repay most of the
external arrears. Implementation of the EFF will be difficult, and draw-
ings have already been delayed due to breaches of the credit ceilings.
9.        Although Zambia's financial circumstances will remain tight for
the immediate future, its long-term development prospects have recently im-
proved. A significant and long-overdue change in government policy towards
agriculture appears to have occured. Producer prices have steadily
increased over the past few years, with significant increases already
announced for the 1981/82 season. Special tax incentives have been ap-
proved, including a radical reduction in the tax rate on agricultural
income. A three-year (1981-83) investment program drawn up as part of the
EFF arrangement allocates 30 percent of total expenditure to the
agriculture sector, a much higher proportion than during the 1970s, and,
importantly, includes a number of projects aimed at increasing smallholder
productivity. These measures represent a necessary beginning towards



- 4 -
exploitation of Zambia's considerable agricultural potential; constant
attention to maintaining and improving these incentives will be required,
however, to bring about sustained agricultural growth. In particular, a
long-term strategy for the development of agricultural and agro-based
industrial exports needs to be drawn up.
Creditworthiness
10.       Zambia's creditworthiness is inextricably linked to the produc-
tion and price of copper. Estimates of economically recoverable ore
reserves indicate that copper production can be maintained at present
levels through the mid-1990s, but that depletion of reserves is expected to
cause production to fall off sharply thereafter. Thus, Zambia's long-term
creditworthiness requires strong measures to develop a viable source of
non-mineral exports. The recent policy measures in agriculture represent
an important initial step towards increasing production and investment in
this sector and should improve Zambia's creditworthiness to the extent that
the export potential is developed.
11.       Prior to 1975, Zambia's external public debt was relatively
small, and the debt service ratio was less than 10 percent of exports.
Since then, outstanding debt has risen sharply, to an estimated US$1,785
million by end 1980, and the debt service ratio to about 19 percent of ex-
ports. In addition, external payment arrears on non-public debt stood at
about US$590 million by the end of 1980.   The IBRD and the People's
Republic of China are Zambia's largest creditors, each with 21 percent of
contractual debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980.
12.       Zambia is obliged under the EFF agreement to retire arrears.  A
substantial part of IMF resources will be used for this purpose and net
drawings (after allowing for repurchases) will add little to capacity to
import. Service on multilateral external debt is expected to remain at a
level of about 14% - 19% up to 1990. The situation requires careful
management.   However, the Government is aware of the magnitude of the pro-
blem and of the requirement for careful debt management. New external bor-
rowings of under 10 years maturity will be limited and monitored closely
under the EFF arrangement. Given the Government's commitment to implement
an EFF program and its actions to improve the incentives for agricultural
production, Zambia continues to be creditworthy for IBRD lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
13.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 27 loans and four credits to
Zambia totalling about US$602 million (net of cancellations). Fourteen
loans and two credits have financed power, transportation and communica-
tions projects. Four loans for education have helped expand Zambia's



- 5 -
secondary and higher education systems, teacher training, and commercial,
agricultural and technical education. Two program loans have helped Zambia
maintain its development program in periods of severe econcyinic dizS'cn--
tion.  In agriculture and forestry, six loans and one credit h.v<ti/       : -r
industrial forest plantations, livestock, commercial crops, integrated
family farming, coffee production, and the Eastern Province Agricultural
Development Project (the forerunner to this project), approved by the
Executive Directors on May 21, 1981, to assist smallholder agriculture in
the Eastern Province. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban development
program and, through the Development Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing,
agricultural and industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is
helping the Government improve its planning and project preparation.
14.       IFC has invested about US$40 million (of which IFC now holds
US$29 million) in seven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one
each for equity in the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production and
textiles. Currently, IFC is exploring investing in a tailings leaching
project and a fuel alcohol plant. Summary statements of Bank Group loans,
credits and investments and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
in Annex II.
15.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, narrow the urban-rural income gap and de-
velop local managerial and technical skills. Anticipated lending reflects
the Government's emphasis on directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture-related activities, although continuing assistance to educa-
tion, transportation and industry also is contemplated. A smallholder
dairy development project, in the Southern and Central Provinces, to estab-
lish milk collection services, intensify extension and animal health ser-
vices, and provide credit, has been appraised, as have projects for rural
water supply, education and a line of credit to the Development Bank of
Zambia.
16.       While continuing to emphasize diversification, the Bank also ex-
pects to cooperate in future with Zambian authorities on measures to stem
the mining industry's- deterioration. In this connection, a Bank mission
reviewed the sector in August 1980 and a mining rehabilitation project
prepared in July this year, is expected to be appraised before the end of
the year.
17.       Except in the agricultural sector, implementation of Bank-
assisted projects in Zambia has proceeded reasonably well, although in re-
cent years the sharp contraction of the economy and the resulting shortages
and budgetary cuts have had a deleterious effect on a few projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
18.       Agriculture in Zambia is markedly dualistic, with a moderni sector
comprising about 800 heavily capitalized farmers (mainly of European
origin) and a small number of state farms and ranches on state-leased land
along the line-of-rail; and a subsistence sector of about 600,000 families
farming land under traditional tenure (mainly under 2 ha each) by hoe or by



ox plough. This extreme dualism has been modified in recent years by two
developments. Firstly, a number of small-scale commercial farmers
("emergent farmers") -- also along the line-of-rail -- have developed
mechanized farms geared to the commercial market. Secondly, an increasing
number of smallholders, particularly in the Southern, Central and Eastern
Provinces, have begun to produce marketable crop surpluses.
19.       While providing a livelihood for over 50 percent of Zambia's pop-
ulation, agriculture accounted for only 14 percent of GDP (current prices)
in 1980. In real terms, agricultural output grew at an average annual rate
of 2.8 percent in 1970-78, somewhat less than the rate of population
growth; it declined by nine percent in 1979 and recovered slightly in
1980. Apart from the limited quantities of maize exports to neighboring
countries in each year of 1970-78, tobacco and confectionary groundnuts are
the only regular exports, but account for under one percent of total
exports. Imports of agricultural commodities rose during the 1970s,
reaching US$46 million (about 8 percent of total imports) in 1979. The
major imports were cereals (mainly wheat, rice and maize in 1979)
accounting for about 50 percent of 1979 agricultural imports, dairy
products (11 percent) and vegetable oils and oilseed cakes (17 percent).
20.       With few exceptions, Zambia's marketed agricultural production
fluctuated greatly during 1969-79. Maize output, Zambia's most important
crop, for instance, averaged over 260,000 metric tons during 1969-71, hit a
record high of 750,000 metric tons in 1976, and dropped to only 340,000
metric tons in 1979, necessitating importation of 300,000 metric tons. The
dramatic decline in production was due to poor rains, late fertilizer im-
ports and shortage of foreign exchange for importing machinery and spares
for large-scale commercial farmers. Other major commodities fared no bet-
ter, except sugar which registered consistent increases. Tobacco, ground-
nut and beef production declined, while milk stagnated. Cotton production,
after years of decline, dramatically increased in 1979 and 1980 because of
better producer prices. Preliminary indications are that maize production
increased sharply in 1981 as a result of better weather and more attractive
prices. With the exception of sugar and tobacco, smallscale farmers
account for most agricultural production.
Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
21.       The Government has, in its statements of development objectives,
consistently given priority to rural development and to increasing agricul-
tural production, with emphasis on achieving higher levels of self-suffi-
ciency in staple foods, supplying export markets, producing raw materials
for local agro-based industries and raising rural incomes and living condi-
tions. However, this priority was reflected in actual budget allocations
only in recent years. After declining from 20 percent in 1970 to only 11
percent in 1974-76, the proportion of the development budget allocated to
agriculture rose to 25 percent in 1980 and 30 percent in the 1981-83
investment program. Unfortunately, much of the investment in earlier years
was in parastatal enterprises which proved to be inefficient, and in a
number of highly subsidized smallholder schemes (mainly resettlement) which



-7-
- 7 -
benefitted relatively few farmers while increasing output little. It is
now generally recognized, however, that raising smallholder productivity is
essential. To accomplish this objective, the Government is giving priority
to broader-based regional agricultural and rural development projects, of
which the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project (para. 13) was
the first (the proposed project is the second). Similar projects are
currently being prepared for external financing in the Western,
North-Western and Northern Provinces.
22.       While capital expenditures budgeted for agriculture have risen in
recent years, allocations for recurrent expenditures to service research
and extension services have become increasingly inadequate. A study car-
ried out by Bank staff in 1980 showed that only three percent of the recur-
rent budget was devoted to these services, mostly for personal emoluments.
As a result, research and extension staff are rendered ineffective because
of lack of transport and other support services. The Government has ac-
cepted the main findings of the study and has agreed to review the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Development's (MAWD) programs and to strengthen
its planning and policy analysis capabilities with a view to rationalizing
and increasing recurrent budgetary allocations for agricultural services.
Agricultural Services
23.       The agricultural sector depends for service almost entirely on
the Government and its parastatals, of which the main ones are MAWD and its
departments and training institutes, the National Agricultural Marketing
Board (NAMB), Cold Storage Board (CSB), Dairy Produce Board (DPB) and Rural
Development Corporation (RDC) and its subsidiaries. Provincial Cooperative
Unions (PCUs) also are important. Private firms provide a few services,
mainly supplying machinery, equipment and agricultural chemicals (except
fertilizer).
Agricultural Research
24.       Most agricultural research is carried out by the Research Branch
of MAWD's Department of Agriculture. The Branch has its headquarters and
central research station near Lusaka, plus nine regional research stations,
a national irrigation research center and an animal husbandry research sta-
tion. In addition, the University of Zambia and the National Council for
Scientific Research undertake limited research projects and MAWD's Depart-
ment of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control operates a veterinary re-
search station. In order to improve coordination, multi-disciplinary teams
are now being formed to address problems of particular farming systems
(e.g., in high rainfall areas), or groups of related crops (e.g., oil-
seeds). Increased emphasis is also being put on the problems of small-
holder farmers who were neglected in the past when research focused on
mechanized farming. Overall, however, research is constrained by a short-
age of funds and lack of staff continuity (over 70 percent of professional
research officers are expatriates on short-term contracts).



Agricultural Extension
25.       Agricultural extension services for livestock and crops, other
than tobacco (for which the Tobacco Board of Zambia is responsible), are
provided by the Extension Branch of MAWD's Department of Agriculture, and
are organized on provincial and district bases under the Provincial Agri-
cultural Officer (PAO). The extension staff total some 1,600 (an average
of one to every 375 farm families) comprising about 80 professional of-
ficers (graduates), 120 technical officers (diploma holders), 600 junior
technical officers and agricultural assistants (certificate-level), and 800
agricultural and commodity demonstrators with short-term training. Many of
the professional officers are expatriates on short-term contracts with
little local experience; many technical officers fill specialist posts at
the provincial level, leaving lower level staff without adequate supervi-
sion and specific work programs; and the demonstrators are poorly trained
and equipped. Recurrent funds for travelling have been so seriously cur-
tailed that many officers are virtually desk-bound. Low pay and difficult
living conditions have lowered morale, a problem that has been partly ad-
dressed since November 1980, when the pay of commodity demonstrators was
substantially increased. The extension service remains relatively ineffec-
tive, despite the existence, for many parts of Zambia, of attractive, pro-
ven technical packages.
Credit
26.       Commercial and larger farmers in Zambia obtain seasonal credit
from the country's four commercial banks (each of which has 15-30 percent
of its loan portfolio in agriculture) and medium- and long-term loans from
the Zambia State Insurance Company and the Development Bank of Zambia. The
Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) is the only significant source of
medium-term and seasonal credit to smallholders, although cooperative
unions in Eastern, Northern, Luapula and Southern Provinces provide some
credit, while the Cattle Finance Company (CFC) provides credit to cattle
farmers. ZADB, recently established by the Government, is not yet opera-
tional (para. 27). Currently, commercial banks charge 12 percent per annum
interest (the ceiling set by the Bank of Zambia on all domestic lending) on
agricultural loans, barely matching the current and projected rate of
inflation.   However, the Government has set a ceiling of 9 percent per
annum for seasonal credit made by AFC to small-scale farmers, while CFC
charges an interest rate of 10 percent per annum. Smallholders' credit
requirements exceed AFC's available loan funds which are constrained by the
country's financial squeeze and limitations on public sector credit and
AFC's deteriorating recovery rate.
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
27.       ZADB was established in March 1979 to make loans to medium- and
small-scale farmers either directly or through PCUs. When it becomes
operational, ZADB is expected to replace both AFC and CFC. In contrast to
AFC, whose sole source of equity and main source of loans is the Govern-



- 9 -
ment, ZADB will be permitted to raise capital from any source, Lc<'pL iocal
deposits and have access to Bank of Zambia's rediscounting facilities.
Under the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project, financing is
provided for consultants to help set up ZADB but, until it begins
operations, AFC will continue to be the principal source of smallholder
credit.
Marketing
28.       Parastatals, along with PCUs in four provinces, market most of
the country's produce. The Tobacco Board handles tobacco, CSB, cattle and
pigs (in competition with private butchers), DPB, fresh milk from producers
close to the main markets and the Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO), cotton,
using cooperative unions in the Eastern and Southern Provinces as
purchasing agents. Since January 1981, the cooperative unions in Eastern,
Northern, Luapula and Southern Provinces, are responsible for marketing
agricultural produce, and are the sole official purchasers of maize and
buyers of last resort for all other major crops. NAMB is responsible for
inter-provincial trade in these crops (para. 29). With the exception of
LINTCO, Zambia's agricultural parastatals in most years have operated at a
loss -- due primarily to the government-imposed prices for buying and
selling and the shortage of qualified and experienced personnel. Although
the Government has announced its intention of making the parastatals
financially viable and has taken some steps in this direction, the results
to date fall short of target.
The National Agricultural Marketing Board
29.       NAMB, created in 1969, is one of Zambia's largest parastatals
which, until the end of 1980, enjoyed a monopoly in marketing and distrib-
uting maize and was the residual buyer of a number of other controlled
crops, mainly groudnuts, sunflower seed and beans. Now, however, NAMB han-
dles only inter-provincial trade in these commodities and is the sole ir-
porter of fertilizer. (The PCUs, instead of NAMB, now distribute and sell
fertilizer, implements and other agricultural supplies to farmers.) Due
primarily to the buying and selling prices set by the Government, NAMB has
regularly suffered substantial losses which have been covered by transfers
from the government budget. These payments totalled K 44 million in 1978,
K 90 million in 1979, and are estimated at K 171 million in 1980 -- due to
large price differentials on maize and subsidies on fertilizer. In 1981,
transfers to NAMB are expected to decline to about K 78 million as a result
of higher maize production and reduced imports.
The Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union
30.       SPCMU, in the Southern Province, markets maize, groundnuts and
other crops, acts as LINTCO's agent in purchasing cotton, extends group
credit to farmers through its primary societies and, since the beginning of
1981, has sole responsibility for distributing and selling fertilizer,
chemicals, and implements to farmers. SPCMU works through a system of



- 10 -
about 500 primary society dep8ts. Because of government policies, SPCMU
was not permitted to charge a fee for its trading services and relied on
government budgetary transfers to cover its trading losses. These
transfers amounted to K 2.8 million in 1976, K 4.5 million in 1977, K 6.5
million in 1978, and K 4.9 million in 1979. The inadequacy of budgetary
transfers and delays by the Government in making payments further strained
SPCMU's liquidity. As an interim measure, the proposed project makes
provision for ensuring SPCMUYs financial viability (para. 52).
Pricing
31.       The Government sets producer prices of all major commodities on a
uniform national basis which, despite increases in recent years, still av-
eraged 16 percent below border prices for the 1975/76 to 1978/79 crop sea-
sons. The Government also controls wholesale and retail prices of most
agricultural commodities which have risen even more slowly than producer
prices, resulting in increasingly large losses to the marketing
organizations and the Government. Recent price decisions have
significantly increased both the producer and consumer prices towards more
economic levels.  In September 1980, the Government raised the producer
price of maize for the 1980/81 crop season by 15 percent and has already
announced a further 18 percent increase for the 1981/82 season. The
wholesale and retail prices of maize meal were increased by 30 percent in
January 1981 and those of milk and dairy products from July 1, 1981. The
Government has also decided to eliminate permanently the negative
differential between the producer price of maize and the selling price to
milling companies. These decisions should result in a significant
reduction in the subsidy element in the consumer price of these
commodities.
Bank Group Experience in the Agricultural Sector in Zambia
32.       The Bank Group has financed five agricultural projects in Zambia
-- a loan for livestock development, two loans for tobacco growing, a cred-
it for coffee production, and the recently approved loan for agricultural
development in the Eastern Province. The livestock loan was cancelled at
the Government s request because of pricing and management problems. The
Commercial Tobacco Farming Project (Loan 685-ZA), completed in 1976, did
not succeed in its goal of training and establishing Zambian commercial to-
bacco farmers. The Project Performance Audit Report (June 29, 1979) agreed
with the main findings and conclusions of the Project Completion Report
(PCR) of February 1979 which attributed poor performance mainly to faulty
project design, poor management and inadequately trained and inexperienced
Zambian farmers. A PCR has recently been completed on the Family Farming
Tobacco Project (Loan 882-ZA) which also was unsuccessful in reaching its
objective, encountering major managerial problems and difficulties due to
tobacco prices that were unattractive compared to other crops, particularly
maize. The Coffee Production Project (Credit 863-ZA) is making good phys-
ical progress but is constrained by substantial cost overruns for which the
Government is seeking financing. The Eastern Province Agricultural Devel-
opment Project, approved May 21, 1981 and financed jointly with the Inter-



- 11 -
national Fund for Agricultural Development, is the forerunner of this pro-
ject and the first in a series of area development projects the Government
is planning (para. 21). Bank loans for projects in other sectors have
benefitted agriculture: an education project is strengthening the training
of extension staff and farmers and two lines of credit to the Development
Bank of Zambia are financing medium- and long-term loans to commercial
farmers and a manufacturer of agricultural machinery. The Bank also has
assisted the Government in analyzing the rural and agricultural sector with
an extensive overall survey (1975), project identification (1978), reviews
of agricultural pricing and marketing (1978), agricultural credit (1979)
and budgeting for recurrent expenditures (1980).
33.       The proposed project incorporates some of the lessons learned
from the Bank's past involvement in Zambia's agriculture, addressing the
problems of severe financial constraints (including local cost financing),
the poor delivery of basic services and inputs; and inadequate producer
incentives. It stresses the need to strengthen (through technical
assistance) the agencies involved in project implementation.   In order to
ensure that producer incentives are adequate, the project provides that the
Government will continue to review producer prices annually, in
consultation with the Association, and adjust them as necessary, taking
into account the cost of production and the level of border prices, and
also review its producer pricing policy every two years (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.04). Similar provision has been made under the
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       The Southern Province Agricultural Development Project is the
second in a series of provincial-scale programs conceived by the Government
to assist smallholder agriculture (para. 21). The project was identified
by a Bank mission that visited Zambia in September 1978 at the request of
the Government. In June 1979, a mission from the FAO/World Bank Coopera-
tive Program assisted MAWD in further identification and preparation.
Preparation was completed in July 1980 and the project was appraised in
November 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in September 1981; the
Zambian delegation was led by Mr. Mukutu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development. Annex III contains supplementary
project data.
Project Rationale
35.       Soil and climatic conditions in the Southern Province are suit-
able for the production of a variety of crops, the principal being maize,
groundnuts, cotton and sunflower. Since independence, the Province has
been a surplus producer of maize, contributing, on average, 35 percent of



- 12 -
the national marketing, of which between 55 and 60 percent is produced by
traditional farmers. However, present production is mainly for subsis-
tence. Proven technical packages are available for the production of
maize, groundnuts, cotton, sunflower and beans, and commercial and smaller
farmers exposed to extension services already use improved seeds and
fertilizer. However, application ratLs are generally far below those
recommended and the extension services (due to inadequate training,
supervision and limited mobility) are unable to reach and encourage more
farmers to adopt improved packages. Fertilizer and other inputs, as well
as credit, often are not available when needed -- due in part to overall
shortages, inadequate storage and difficult access during the rains in many
areas.
Project Description
36.       The project aims, over five years, at improving services to the
traditional agricultural sector, expanding food, cash crop and livestock
production and raising the incomes and living standards of smallholders in
the Southern Province.- It also would expand the planning and monitoring
capability of the office of the Provincial Permanent Secretary (PPS) for
the Southern Province. Specifically, the project would include the compo-
nents described below.
37.       Agricultural Extension and Training.  The project would rehabili-
tate the agricultural extension services in the Southern Province. Most of
the extension workers are stationed at provincial and district
headquarters. Farmer contact is made largely by inadequately trained
village extension workers who lack defined work programs, supervision,
housing and transport. The project would finance about 48 new staff and an
internationally recruited extension management officer and a farm
management officer. They would establish district training teams which
would reorganize the service into a "training and visit" system in which
trained village extension workers, under the supervision of
certificate-level staff, would each meet fortnightly with 80-150 contact
farmers. It also would provide for training new and existing staff,
incremental travel allowances and vehicle operating costs, renovating or
constructing staff houses, offices, wells and pit latrines, as well as
purchasing four-wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles, and mobile kitchens (for
home economics/female extension programs) and spare parts. Prior to
invitation to bid, a report on the criteria and field data justifying the
size and siting of agricultural camps where these facilities will be
located will be sent to the Association for review (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.09).
38.       Livestock Development.  The project would strengthen the
capability of the Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control in
controlling the most serious animal diseases in the Province as well as
improve the control of the tsetse fly in the Gwembe District. It would
also strengthen the animal husbandry extension service of the Department of
Agriculture with a view to improving herd management and animal nutrition,
increasing the commercialization of traditional herds and integrating



- 13 -
crop production and livestock husbandry practices. Funds would be pruvided
for upgrading veterinary stations by purchasing vehicles, sprayers, minor
equipment, vaccines and drugs, and rehabilitating or constructing crushes
and dips. A revolving fund would be established with dipping fees which
would be used for the maintenance of dip tanks and purchase of chemicals
(draft Development'Credit Agreement, Section 3.10). The tsetse control
service in Gwembe District would be strengthened by providing funds for
additional staff; renovation of camp buildings; purchase of vehicles,
tractors and camp equipment; and incremental vehicle operating costs and
insecticides.
39.       Input Supply and Storage.  Funds would be provided to SPCMU to
improve and expand storage for fertilizer, seeds and insecticides which
would be located within eight kilometers of most farmers. Sixty new
storage sheds (of 12,000 tons capacity), together with existing storage,
would adequately provide for handling the projected fertilizer and seed
throughput in year 7 of the project. Funds would be provided for yearly
procurement of incremental input requirements for the duration of the
project. In order to ensure proper store management and accounting
procedures, the project would finance the training of 60 rural store
managers during the first three years.
40.       Produce Storage.  This component would extend the Province's
storage capacity to cater for needs in poorly served areas and for incre-
mental production under the project, complementing a proposed Canadian
Government-assisted storage program. The project would finance the con-
struction by SPCMU of 12 uncovered concrete storage platforms with a total
capacity of 24,000 tons of produce storage for periods of up to eight
months between harvest and consumption. It also would provide for grain
handling facilities, housing, offices, electricity, water and staff
training at each new site, as well as tarpoulin and other operating
expenses. In addition, about 20 man-months of short-term consultancy
services to assist SPCMU with its storage operations and related staff
training (para. 52.) are included.
41.       Credit Development.  The project would provide for the strength-
ening of SPCMU's credit management capability through the establishment of
a credit department and provision of staff for the department's head-
quarters and its district offices, including a credit manager, two credit
officers and support staff. The credit manager, whose terms of reference
were agreed during negotiations, would be employed by May 1, 1982 (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). In order to improve effectiveness in
credit management, project funds would finance the training of SPCMU s
district managers and credit assistants and purchase of vehicles,
motorcycles and office equipment. Training would also be provided for
managers and board members of cooperative societies to improve loan proces-
sing, recovery and accounting capabilities. Further training for SPCMU's
staff in cooperative affairs and credit management would be provided
through technical assistance from a bilateral source.



- 14 -
42.       Incremental Credit.  Smallholders' seasonal input requirements
would be provided by SPCMU on credit through member cooperative societies.
In order to encourage increased loan recovery efforts by the societies,
SPCMU would provide inputs on credit only to societies achieving a loan
recovery rate of at least 95 percent, except in cases of unusual
circumstances adversely affecting farmers' ability to repay loans (draft
Project Agreement, Section 4.03). Project funds would also be made
available to ZADB for onlending to individual smallholders or through group
borrowers, other than SPCMU's member societies, for purchasing seasonal
input requirements.
43.       Project Administration.  Provision would be made for strengthen-
ing the capability of the office of the PPS for project planning, financial
control, monitoring and evaluation. Technical assistance would therefore
be provided through the international recruitment of a senior planning
officer and a project accountant; housing and transport would also be
provided. A research officer to carry out project evaluation, two Zambian
junior planning officers, four Zambian accounts assistants and two accounts
clerks would also be engaged.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       Total project costs are estimated at US$24.6 million (including
US$0.75 million in taxes and duties). Foreign costs are US$11.2 million,
approximately 46 percent of total costs. These estimates include physical
contingencies of 10 percent (except for salaries and credit). Price
contingencies (40 percent of total base costs) for local costs allow for a
12 percent yearly escalation. For expatriate personnel, imported vehicles
and equipment, the contingencies allow for price rises of 9 percent in
1981, 8.5 in 1982, 7.5 in 1983-85 and 6 percent in 1986.
45.       Project costs include incremental operating expenses of US$9.0
million for project administration, extension and veterinary services and
tsetse control required to raise the level of existing services and under-
write their expansion. (These costs would be funded from the Government's
capital budget during the project period, but would be transferred to the
recurrent budget at the end of the project.) In order to ensure adequate
funding for non-incremental services and to avoid the sudden imposition of
project-generated operating costs on the recurrent budget at the end of the
project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would (i) increase in real terms recurrent budget allocations for
research, extension, veterinary and tsetse control services in the Southern
Province beginning January 1, 1982, to cover the existing services in
addition to contributing to the project-s costs; and (ii) progressively
transfer allocations for project-generated operating costs from the capital
to the recurrent budget beginning January 1, 1983 (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.03).



- 15 -
46.       The proposed credit of US$18.0 million would finance all the
project's foreign exchange costs and US$6.8 million of local costs, or
about 76 percent of the total, net of taxes and duties.  This level of ex-
ternal financing is considered justified in the light of Zambia's current
and near-term critical economic and budgetary problems. Credit funds would
finance expenditures for incremental local staff salaries and wages and
vehicle operating costs on a declining scale with the Government financing
an increasing proportion and assuming full responsibility at the end of the
project (para. 56 and draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule I,
para. 1).
Project Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented through existing organizations
which would be strengthened as necessary. The PAO (provincial head of
MAWD), assisted by the extension management officer (para. 37), would be
responsible for the extension component; the animal health and tsetse con-
trol component would be the responsibility of the provincial veterinary of-
ficer; and project monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by the
PPS office and independently by a research officer in MAWD's Planning Unit
(para. 43).
48.       Overall responsibility for project planning, budgeting, monitor-
ing and reporting would rest with the PPS whose office would be strengthen-
ed (para. 43). Annual plans and costings for implementation would be drawn
up every quarter by the various implementing agencies and reviewed and
consolidated by the project accountant into a proposed program for the
project. Based on this, he would prepare a consolidated budget request
that would be submitted to the PPS by May 1. The preparation of the
consolidated plan and budget would be completed by June 30 each year and,
promptly after approval, copies would be sent to the Association for
comment (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(a)). In
reviewing and coordinating the budgets and work plans of implementing
agencies, the PPS would be assisted by the Supervisory and Evaluation
Committee (SEC) which would be established in the Southern Province (under
the chairmanship of PPS) and whose terms of reference and membership were
agreed during negotiations (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.04). The establishment of SEC would be a condition of effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).
49.       The senior planning officer would, as a matter of priority, in-
stitute a system of quarterly reporting by implementing agencies to the
PPS. The system would explicitly relate progress to the agreed annual work
program. These reports would enable the PPS and SEC to monitor progress
and identify bottlenecks and constraints. The reports would be consoli-
dated into an overall quarterly progress report which, together with data
to be provided by the project accountant on project expenditures and dis-
bursements, would be sent to the Association not later than two months af-
ter the end of the reporting period (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03(b)).



- 16 -
50.       To ensure timely provision of local counterpart funds for
extension and training, veterinary services and tsetse control and project
administration, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would, at the beginning of each quarter, deposit the amounts
required for the quarter in a project account controlled by the PPS (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05). The establishment of the
account and the deposit of the initial amount would be a condition of
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). In
view of the importance of timely delivery of inputs to farmers and prompt
payment for their crops by marketing agencies, agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Government would provide LINTCO and NAMB with
adequate foreign exchange and local currency allocations to enable them to
discharge effectively their input delivery and marketing functions in the
Southern Province.
Relending Terms
51.       Project funds for extension and training, livestock development
and project administration would be channelled through MAWD or directly to
the PPS for allocation to implementing agencies in the Province. Project
funds for the construction and operation of stores and storage platforms
and the procurement of incremental fertilizer, seed and pesticides would be
onlent by the Government to SPCMU for 20 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at not less than 11 percent per annum, while funds for
the development of credit administration would be made available to SPCMU
as a grant (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
Smallholders would obtain inputs from SPCMU on credit at an interest rate
of not less than 11 percent per annum. While the proposed relending rates
are negative in real terms, considering the current and projected inflation
rate in Zambia estimated at 12 percent per annum, they are higher than the
current government ceiling of nine percent on seasonal credit to
small-scale farmers (para. 26). Provision would be made for SPCMU's and
ZADB's interest rates to be reviewed to ensure that they do not fall
further below the rate of inflation and also enable SPCMU and ZADB to
become profitable. The execution of a Financing Agreement, satisfactory to
the Association, between the Government and SPCMU would be a condition of
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a)).
Project funds for the remainder of incremental input credit (para. 42)
would be channelled through ZADB under a Financing Agreement between the
Government and ZADB. As ZADB, which is being established with the
assistance of consultants financed by the Bank (para. 27), is not expected
to become operational before mid-1982, it is proposed that the execution of
the Financing Agreement be a condition of disbursement (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b) and Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
52.       To ensure SPCMU's integrity, financial viability and efficiency,
agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would
continue to make budgetary transfers to SPCMU (para. 30). The level of the
transfers (or service charges), payable in advance, would be based on an
agreed formula, taking into account SPCMU's trading costs and provide for a



- 17 -
reasonable return on capital employed (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.08). Furthermore, provision is made for ZADB and SPCMU to draw
up and submit to the Association by March 31, 1982, and June 30, 1982,
respectively, comprehensive five-year financing plans, including operating
policies and procedures, interest charges and fees, etc., on the bases of
which ihe two organizations would revise their interest rates and other
fees so that by March 31, 1984, they would generate a reasonable net
income, after covering operating and borrowing costs and reserves for bad
debts (draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.02). The objective of
the plans and revision of interest rates would be to ensure sound overall
financial performance for both organizations.
Project Staffing
53.       The project would increase the productivity of currently under-
utilized staff by assigning them more meaningful roles and providing train-
ing. In addition, the project would finance four internationally recruited
staff -- a senior planning officer, project accountant, extension manage-
ment officer and farm management officer -- for a total of about 20
man-years at an average cost of US$8,000 equivalent per man-month. The
appointment of the first three would be a condition of effectiveness (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(b)), while the farm management
officer would be appointed by July 1, 1982 (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 4.07(a)); and Zambian counterparts for all internationally
recruited staff would be employed (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sec-
tion 4.07). The project would finance about 20 man-months of short-term
consultancy services (para. 40) at an average cost per man-month of
US$8,600. A total of about 200 additional local staff would be employed
under the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
posts of PAO, provincial extension training officer, district tsetse
control officer and provincial veterinary officer would continue to be
filled by qualified and experienced staff throughout the project period and
a research officer would be employed (by May 1, 1982) in the Planning Unit
of MAWD to be responsible for project evaluation (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.05).   A credit manager would be employed by SPCMU
(para. 41); and the Swedish International Development Agency is expected to
provide SPCMU (outside the project) with two expatriate advisors on cooper-
ative and credit affairs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that this or equivalent assistance from other sources would be made avail-
able to SPCMU by June 30, 1982 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.06).
Project Evaluation
54.       The project would be only the second of its type in Zambia and,
therefore, it would be important to monitor and evaluate its impact closely
so that implementation lessons could be incorporated quickly in it and in
similar follow-up projects. The evaluation would be carried out by staff
in the PPS- office and by the research officer. Baseline studies for



- 18 -
evaluating project impact would focus on three indicators: the numbers and
characteristics of farmers using improved techniques; the yields and in-
comes obtained from the various crop and livestock activities under both
traditional and improved production methods; and the cropping and animal
husbandry practices of smallholders in the Southern Province. Annual eval-
uations would concentrate on the effects of the project, particularly the
reorganization of the extension service, and would bring to the attention
of the provincial authorities and SEC (para. 48) important trends and
developing problems. SEC would set guidelines and priorities for the
Research Officer's work; approve his work plan and monitor its implementa-
tion; and review the annual evaluation reports. Within six months of the
completion of disbursements, the Government would prepare and submit to the
Association a Project Completion Report which would analyze the project's
achievements measured against its objectives (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.07(d)).
Procurement
55.       Procurement under the project would be on the following bases:
(a) Contracts of US$100,000 or more -- for the purchase
of vehicles, machinery and equipment (totalling
US$1.5 million) -- would, as far as practicable, be
bulked and awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines; domestic manufacturers would be granted
a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate of
duty, whichever is lower;
(b) Vehicles, machinery and equipment of less than
US$100,000 (up to a total of US$500,000) would be
purchased under local competitive bidding proce-
dures which are satisfactory to the Association;
(c) Civil works contracts (for construction of housing,
stores and storage platforms), totalling US$4.2
million, would be too small and scattered to attract
international interest and would therefore be
awarded after local competitive bidding open to
foreign firms;
(d) Rehabilitation of housing (totalling US$500,000)
would be carried out either by local contractors or
by force account;
(e) Fertilizer, veterinary supplies and pesticides
(totalling US$2.6 million) would be bulked with
overall national requirements and procured through
NAMB under normal Government procedures, acceptable



- 19 -
to the Association, which include international
tendering; and seed requirements (totalling
US$300,000) would be procured from the Zambia Seed
Company; and
(f) Consultants would be employed in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
56.       Project funds would be disbursed on the following bases:
(a) 80 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent
of local expenditures for vehicles, spare parts
equipment and other materials; veterinary supplies
and vaccines, fertilizer, seed and chemicals;
(c) 100 percent of smallholder credit disbursements;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent
of local expenditures for technical assistance and
training; and
(e) On a declining scale, an average of 55 percent of
the salaries and wages of incremental local staff
and vehicle operating costs.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for civil works by force
account, smallholder credit and local staff salaries and vehicle operating
costs for which disbursements would be on the basis of certificates of
expenditure signed by the heads of the respective implementing agencies.
Accounts and Audits
57.       Separate accounts would be kept by the respective implementing
agencies (the PPS, ZADB and SPCMU) and, except for the PPS, accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and sub-
mitted to the Association within six months of the end of each financial
year (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01). The auditors
would specifically review and comment on the procedures for control of dis-
bursements against certificates of expenditure. The Auditor-General audits
the accounts of all government ministries and departments and an audit
report is submitted to Parliament.



- 20 -
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
58.       The Government would recover approximately 42 percent of project
costs through repayments of loans to be made to SPCMU and ZADB. The
balance of project costs (to be incurred through MAWD and PPS), relating to
agricultural extension and animal husbandry services, which will be
provided free of cost to smallholders, are not subject to any direct cost
recovery mechanism and the extent of indirect recovery has not been
quantified. However, a fee will be charged for dipping services (para.
38). Although the project would not increase directly-generated revenues
to the Government, as there are no taxes or cesses on agricultural
production, it is expected to markedly increase spending by beneficiaries
on consumer goods many of which are taxed. In addition, project
beneficiaries would pay prices reflecting the full cost of seed and
pesticides and, eventually, credit. Furthermore, while the price of
fertilizer is subsidized at present (about 40 percent), the Government is
committed to reduce the subsidy by 50 percent by the end of 1983 (para. 8),
by which time the level of cost recovery on this item should increase to
about 80 percent.
59.       The development of extension and other services to be financed
under the project would require long-term commitment by the Government to
provide staff and operating resources. During the period of disbursement
of the IDA credit, the Government's contribution to project costs would
amount annually to about 3 percent of MAWD's 1980 capital budget for agri-
culture. The incremental annual recurrent cost burden to the Government
after the completion of credit disbursements would rise from K3 million in
the sixth year of the project to over K6 million by the eleventh year (in
current terms).
Project Benefits and Risks
60.       At full development, the project would enable 27,000 farm
families, about 40 percent of traditional smallholder households in the
Southern Province, to adopt improved cultivation practices for maize,
cotton, sunflower and groundnuts, thereby increasing their incomes by up to
110 percent in real terms. Incremental annual production would total
91,000 tons of maize, 2,000 tons of cotton, 3,000 tons of sunflower, and
2,000 tons of groundnuts. The animal health and husbandry programs are
expected to increase cattle sales by 8,000 head annually. Some farmers
outside the target group also would benefit from improved input delivery,
extension and produce storage. The project is expected to generate foreign
exchange savings of about US$25 million annually. Unquantifiable benefits
would result from institution-building investments which are expected to
strengthen the capacity of staff in the Southern Province to plan and exec-
ute development projects in the Province, while technical assistace to MAWD
and PCMU should improve project evaluation and credit administration.
61.       The main risk to the realization of project benefits would be
lower crop yields resulting from the slow adoption of improved husbandry
practices and lower than expected use of fertilizer and improved seed by
smallholders. Using a discount rate of 12 percent, benefits would have to
lag by about three years to make the project non-viable. A 40 percent de-



- 21 -
crease in the benefits from the project's major components (as a result of
poor farmer uptake or lower yields due to reduced fertilizer application
rates or poorer oxen performance), or a 63 percent increase in costs, would
make the extension and livestock components non-viable. For the project as
a whole, returns would have to decrease by 37 percent, or costs increase by
60 percent, for the project to be rendered non-viable. To minimize the
above .risks, the project provides for the reorganization and strengthening
of extension services. It also provides for technical assistance to
improve credit administration and to ensure the timely provision of other
inputs. In addition, the emphasis on more attractive price incentives
(para. 33) and availability of proven technical packages should increase
the farmers' responsiveness to better husbandry and use of fertilizer and
improved seed.
62.       The economic analysis of overall project investments over a 20-
year period shows an internal economic rate of return of 27 percent, com-
prising 31 percent for crop and livestock production, 11 percent for input
storage and 16 percent for produce storage. The analysis takes into
account the capital and recurrent costs of extension services (including
animal health), input and produce storage, incremental inputs, project and
credit administration, incremental farm labor and physical contingencies
which have been valued at the shadow exchange rate of K 0.98 to US$1.00 in-
stead of the official rate of K 0.80 to US$1.00. To reflect the observed
general underemployment of family labor, this item has been valued at its
opportunity cost which, in the case of unskilled labor, has been taken to
be K 0.95 per man-day, or 50 percent below the present official minimum
wage.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associ-
ation and SPCMU and ZADB and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the Associ-
ation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III of this
report. Conditions of effectiveness would include the execution of a
Financing Agreement between the Government and SPCMU; the appointment of
the senior planning officer, the project accountant and the provincial
extension management officer; the establishment of an advance account
controlled by the PPS, Southern Province, and the deposit of the initial
amount sufficient to cover recurrent expenditures on agricultural extension
and training and livestock development for the first three months of the
project period; and the establishment of SEC (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 16, 1981



- 23 -                                        ANNEX I
PageS1  ot  5
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
LAhU ARLA (IHliUbANi  So. tH. )                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATEa
OurAL            75j2.L                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AURILLULrRAL     j5O.b              196U  /b    197U /b ESIIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH1 UF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
uNP  LPL  CAPITA (U042               20U.U        340.0    556.0 d/               794.2                  1616.2
NELRSY LuNSDHPTelUN PLR tAPIIA
(KIwusLMIoi UC OAL EQUIVALENT)        ..        723.7     d5o.2                707.5                   1324.1
eUPULAIiUN ANU VIIAL SIATISTILS                                   d/
tWJuLLALIoN, AL1-YLAR (THOUSANDb)  3207.0     4242.0   5766.0 -
jtuAAr. rOeULAIIUN (PERCENT OF rUTAL) 23.1       3u.0      37.2                 27.7                     64.2
uPLULAIION rRUJJELTIUNS
$U.JULAIION IN YEAR 20UU (MILLIUNS)                      i1.0
TATIOUNARY PuPULATIUN (ItLLIUNS)                         31.0
Y_Ae sTArIONARY POPULATIUN IS REACHED                  2125
PUPULATIUN ULNSITY
PER bO. 4(1.                       4.3          5.6       7.4                 55.0                     34.3
PeLK b. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      9.2         12.1      15.4                130.7                     94.5
eUPULATIUN ALE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRb.                         45.0        46.1       47.1                 46.0                     40.7
15-04 YRb.                         52.5        51.4       50.3                 51.2                     55.3
os YRS. ANU AbUVE                   2.5          2.5       2.6                  2.8                      4.0
PUPULArTUN bRUWIT kLArE (PERLENT)
tIOAL                              2.4          2.6       3.0                  2.8                      2.4
USbAN                              5.3          5.4       5.5                  5.1                      3.7
LRUUE gibLIH RATL (PER TIHUSANO)    5u.5         49.6      49.1                 46.9                     31.4
CKUUE DEATH PLATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.2         19.9      16.6                 15.8                      8.4
CROUS RLPRUDUCTIUN RATE              3.4          3.4       3.4                  3.2                      2.3
FALLY PLANNING
ACCEPLUTO. ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)       ..          ..
UbEtL  (PEKCETl UF MARRIED WUMEN)   ..          ..
IuuD AND NUTRITIUN
INUEX uF FUuD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        95.0       92.0                 89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PEULENT UF
REqUIREHENTS)                   79.0        84.0       87.0                 92.3                    107.6
PRUILINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          54.0         56.0      56.0                 52.8                     65.8
oF WhlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0         16.0      14.0                 16.1                     34.0
LdILD (AGES 1-4) MOUrALITY PATE     36.1         28.4      21.9                 20.2                      7.6
biUALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRTH (YEAXR)    40.0        44.9       49.3                 50.8                     64.1
INEANT MUKIALITY PATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        144.0        ..                   ..                     70.9
ALLCSS Tu SAFE WATLE (PERCENT UF
iPUPLAIION)
ToTAL                               ..        37.U       42.0                 27.4                     65.7
UKbAN                               *-         70.0      86.0                 74.3                     79.7
KUtAL                               ..         22.0      16.0                 12.6                     43.9
ALLESS TU ELCREIA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
uF PUPULATION)
IuTAL                               ..         16.0      42.0                   ..                     59.9
UAhA.                               ..         12.0      87.0                   ..                     75.7
RURAL                               ..         18.0      16.0                   ..                     30.4
PoPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN          9544.6      8288.4   10191.0               13844.1                   1728.2
PUPULATIUN PLR NURSING PERSON     9915.0jc    2479.0    1931.0                2898.6                   1288.2
PUeULAIOUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            343.0/c      311.3     269.6               1028.4                    471.2
URAAN                            181.Olc         ..     332.8                423.0                    558.0
RURAL                            468.U/c        .-      258.3               3543.2
AUMIblUNS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..      31.0
HOUSING
AVEPAbE SIZE UF HOUSEHULD
TUTAL                               ..          4.4
URBAN                               ..          ..         .                     ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        4.6
AVERAbE NUMBER OF PERSUNS PER ROUM
TUTAL                               ..          2.6
UKhAN                               ..          2.6
KUKAL                               ..          2.6
ACLESS TIU ELECTRICITY (PERtENIT
UF UWELLINGS)
TUIAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                             27.5          ..
RUKAL                               ..           ..



- 24 -                                    ANNEX I
Pa ea  of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEU WES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE lNCO6RE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARI7BEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                42.0        91.0       98.0                 73.7                    101.7
HALE                 51.0       101.0      106.0                 96.8                    103.0
FEMALE               34.0        80.0      89.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECOYDARY:   TOTAL                 2.0        13.0       16.0                 16.2                     35.3
MALE                  3.0        18.0       21.0                 25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                1.0         8.0       11.0                 14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 28.0           3.0       3.0                  5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIHARY                           50.0        47.0       48.0                 36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                         14.0        21.0       21.0                 23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.5/c       47.3      44.0 -                                        80.0
CONSUAPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        14.3       18.5                 32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        17.7       22.0                 69.0                    215.0
TV KECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         4.0        4.9                  8.0                     B9.0
iEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  7.0        13.4       19.9                 20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..         ..                  0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1322.1       1653.4    2043.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.2        32.6       32.0                 36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             79.0        73.0       67.7                 56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 7.0         9.0       10.8                 17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               41.2         39.0      36.6                 37.2                     31.8
MALE                                55.3         52.9      50.1                 47.1                     69.0
FEMALE                              27.3        25.2       23.3                 27.5                     14.6
ECONLhIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2          1.2       1.4                  1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.7          ..       23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2          ..       63.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.4           ..       3.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          ..       10.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE PUVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ,.      247.0                381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      168.0                156.2                    187.6
ESTEIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      126.0                334.3                    513.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      85.0                137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       25.0
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coversge of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
/d   1980 estimates.
May, 1981



- 25-                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
OEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Ioa.  lhteogo  hil  d.l. are  ,-at frmsuce    eefylda  th.oathrttv   ... ....c i.  .ttOl   0..0 ..cte    ut
-1toall  cop-rble Onctue  of lhs a.         o   nodti.  d.fioitiona e4nt-- coopte .eed by diff-trt                        L.eriaI  cotl1-tlg          M. ue.fl  tn.1  ,t
thelee... u..fu1l.t describe orden of  ago-tda., idItiar   trend., and  -hrcartcr                -i alo   of              betl tcuntte.
The referece  roo     -rl O.a    cuty group of the .oiet  outr  sadCl a c-utr  goup oith .-stha  bhihr   -.rg. inom   thin the  -ootr  group
of thtujc   outyo eo fo  `Copitel Surplus Oil E.pre.   ru   br  "Middls Ioose N-oth Africa and Middle East" Ls cho..n because of et-ng-
aort-culur1 iffinithee,.  1o th. rfretgou.p dots 0h*  -org..  -r  pop.lagior eightad  -ritteetic  us.ne for  -Io Indicator ot- hrI                         oiy
aajoity oftha contie " in   IlgoupInsd-t  forim cha  O~i-ter    10i-  oh. co             Iaeo   ot - rite  atone  oh  .odtctr  oe d  ot it. evei  'lak            y of date
oo it oat caifor.    stO    uhbenet-i-sd inL lnio  argeof attn idi-at-rto a-h-r   Thatouraeson -ly ...eful LoOsar    th. onlu- of
ous itdi--to  ate  ite  among the coo..try ovA  r-f--nn   groupe.
LAND lEuAd 'cbh'ueeoa eq..)                                                                         foocl-toot       R.- IoeritaL Oto-c,tOl   cost, aud c-.1   Pplton(oe
fT-l - Tot,l,suf o  erao coeprisia  lend are  td inle1odon                                                    M rbt   n  cora) ditdV b  chin  neec hu- e  -oben of hopital1 bade
Osriicut-ra  - isto-at  ofagiuurlre    edtemorriy  r  aratuly                                        arilbe  o         lio  eud pti-tnaetsa  adtcaiad boeite   n 
for crops,' _.. earn. na.todOiot   edn   rto Lit fellow; 19751 data.                              bobLItln    nt.r...C.oe. toaa etblia eta   eretei  st__                     ffe
by no Itn.t toe. pynytitiaa. $tblhet   tvdc    rvialoe
lNP PEt CAPITA 0109) - 100  Per tspits  -sli--e atcret               krencot.c                         dia1.l tr   r   o   itcluad   . t_ra  boaritoe  borV-r  hoood  ba
clidby,.-on  -uriot. asthd se W10010 tank AnIse 01977-79 besis); 1960,                          sdeiclttrsntemnenpofedby s phy.ysitia  (ban bya
197,and 1979 date.                                                                                   nnt .Ilnsah tsinue.    eafe.  n.    h',, offer Io-sio                     ci -
datiot end pronida a limitd raca Of esis W             iic  n.  Far- ete
MERCIOY CfON3tQTION PER CAPIfTA - PA,II-I coeato         f icesenialeeg tl                             i.aI pup etuben bhtpitol.   Inua   tsrnlp/geri                           ttl.
end ligoi,.. p  -tr..lno   ... untr1 gae and hydo-,  .. tacsrad  etaml elac-                         It os   opO            oa   r rurl h.pitcl   Ind enditil ad  -aerity
ltrichy   IA l ilogres  of  -otaqiit  ret capita; 19ff. 1970. and 1979                              cetes    Otia Pod           icptale  r  oe,Iodnd only .n4.r  tonl.
data.                                                                                             Odisho   etdaital ted - fTalI ooshn  of ameeo                    to or diechuage
fro    onitale diidao  by tbnvoba  of beAt.
OPOUTAiTIONt AND VITAL STATISTICS
T-t1 oaleho.  .d-l-a  (,h .... de)               I sf Zuly I.. 19b0, 19701. ad  1779            fOU00NG
A105mm   Sian of K...eeald'iroertoueo    -  ca.ua.ad  -ure  -
Ena   ouelo(p.ronrt of total) - Patio of urban to tota  pOuatnitoahldcnin    faaou   fldtdosbnaelnn    otr
difaneo dfantiaa o  ubanerae ny nfet  osraahiotyof  atsso  debt malttool."Aho.rd-r or lodg-r ty orsa   oth  Onin    i
among cooairie;1990.  97, and  1979 data,f                                                 tilt hou..ehold forettatca.ruooa...
Potlatot  0 yar If  -Corran   pouAinPtaetio   no  b d on1980                               he   fproePeMro   1   l  ubn               ;ndrrl  oaht   retineal
tota  VaInlahion by aEa so     .anad thtir  tontety ed  ethitrta.drelige   eseoiel.                                            itllitne atolude  a-arast  tt "tr ad
Ptolentiaaparemeeref- or  ctolity rent  oom .a  of thanlrat  so.                          oo-Iie    ara
hug lift eopttnoly at birth i-it-ioag  i0thb            mtyePer c pite L-ao                   Acoet lgtiiy Orin   fd-iie -toa,ubn.adttl                                       -
le_   .dan  femel  life so -cat   tbi"ltg at 77.5 y-.r.  The psre-                             ovmiaad ltg 0thN  al-ottoity  I  1000t5   sittars as per-eetgs
motarfo  fthity rate  Il- ho-o  rhl..1-e lne.eseiag dsolina Ln                                  of tnl  -rben  .ad rura  dv1lioga r-Peontay.
fetIit  t-odiAg to ios   an51 sod Poa  fashy pl-itnio   prftmaoe
tack... cauro  he than ossigntone of Oh,e  nIece ait  of mor-tality                        fItUtATION1
atfartilin   ltosde (or. rjsioafporyoso.                                                  Adjustad E-11-set Pathos
i1ltticer   ouato-nsst.ep    onlt                         hrai   agot-h aine                      Prmr   ool-tnn.sl   ndaaeIrs    oa.sl   a  fesele
'ha birth rate he aqo1 to nba derb rate, an.l.aoaag   rou oe  e                                    trler   oall anat tbh  prO1-ny lare  sa  errtat  of Tnoetiva
saia oota..aan.rhie ic achirrd ooly sonar ferIlity raise tsnline to                               primary ethoa-L-ga populnhana  nmaly loolud4-4hildren agd b-1l
therpacso  1-01 of uoit tsr rptodorltotrae   hb- sakgn-h                     hn                    e    bnt tdfantd coo dif eetIsstha of prOoy1d-                  nhs  fat
ofoa rnlana...  iteIf an.tly.  Thanaiar t               popi.lato   eise atantohe  wt                                            ...erelstaiom  e-rtlmsa  saY esad 100 Paroese
lb.aO  n  h  b.ei. of Ohs p,a -edthiatsigieof tbh  population                               hoasitpupile era bale or shv   h    ff i.ial aubl eg..
in tha yea  1000. .nd the  -e, of denlfns of f.rtilltyreeaelr-foeay  tol-ttl   aeat  female - Csptte  at aba; saoodar
san   .01                                                                                      eduction requhse o  leas  fa_  Y_oao  sprrdP,eeyOenrti
fertt-    oer  tarn tiani    Le rent h.  - Tis yea  abet etatlsar  poptlarta                         pro..id.. gentrl,V. oaetimal  or teah.r trinn             ...n.atimma far PePik.
atnhas bea  r-ohd.                                                                             ueealy of 11 to 17 yP_r  of aEa;........ W-               uen  at  esre
Poraatontoauy                                                                                    an_Iad
P.r e. k..   Miofd-y,-  papn"i.ono  per  qtar   ll-    a      (1ff htona...  o f                  Eaaioa    -rima         4Inret If  aeeyp-tatea   Osetlltite
tonlaea   OO  107 sod 1979 dan.-                                                                  inc1a4e teabah1a.        ntral -o  other pragra eIhio  aPr.. t. aday.-
7,., 55. h.grolu    land - Camrtad ee ab.o  far  grtca1tarl1 land                                    andy or as   pat-et  of emotdary ieatitntiam.
relY; 196. 1070 and 1978 dent,                                                                  "uil-nsbrrna-aOa,  n "Iatdrr- ..etL  -ne-n  omoalld Is
oponinssSltruaur  (rerrana   - Childraa      -1 If-l  .)eref   aklng-age (15-                 prIr sdanndr  lrl  dOcl.   by  osbn  of teather  is the
60  nrf  an     Wale   If 5 years sad al....        ananan  of aid-year Ppop-trreadblvl
Ltlanta; L Ib. 7. e-d 1979 data                                                                   Odni hInert -9nt   Iait -Literate a4nite  fabl  to ran  sat eits)
-oooio rwh nt  OPcao- total -   'Isa  gravb r'nee of natal sid-                                aaOrn t.nes. of ltota  dadut papoltien aged 15 Ya-r                 aveIr.
yea  ppuitlns  ot1950-6, Ob)9  O-7. "d 1970-9.
P'orrl.no  iptfGth  Mlnt lacnO-urban - clal gratah ratas of orba  page-                                       C.     -        h  4"0,i                -:.        .    oW1
lotjon    It or  90_60. 1907.at1970- 79                                                         peeom    osIe   hoen  tgahm  ) Peanaerso                               5 snr
Cruda girth Pat      - fast      ; thnsd        msl Lira bhtht rer thva of s..ya.tr   .tnelag l..e than sight P.r.-m; anlo1   stlaoe.herab                                       n
poPnL  llto     18, 1970. an  1979 da.-                                                           ailinty   akla
louts 0.0t  Pat lonr11  Ihosi 9- OtA-i Oatba Per thonoadt  of e1-trgti   aerr  I... tho,sad to!aen!e .-)  All type, of  naiesfar reAls
Ppopn.lto;10. h     197.Oed  97  dg                                                               bro=asenagseipohoPerteaata   oaoh.   sidnr
freesR Z-1 Psro 'olo   P       -vA ... S  tuber of d.agh.tsre   em  1wil  heat Lt                                         L.aa    srhteO  -a-nies  -An  It fera". reI ara   ofret
baa tarsa           -IrOtOto  p-pdi" fh.ab          .  ..a.ote   prea  a-etf ofrsgemsieffeag; dnna for r-sa  yea-   -7y -la  ha oare-bla   L-.
tility  rans; a~l'Tfive_ s  avrge       7ndo  in 1960, 1970,. ed 1979.                       me    onria        .Li.bad liaesiag.
Tami=   Plea.it  - kosear.- Anel thamsdoll- Aemoal ntb,r  of soear                                 t ganiver  fre                IIsiad  -4aatat  - TV r-r-i-en-  fat bra.ndas   tso
of ~birth-    %rldvice-  nd=   aaepie  of _ai"'al famiy P"eemig prga.gteial pblit ret than.An     pwpaleion; atnoeas aln d  TV reai-e
Pasiy Paanns-ttrs(otoC.      of   -1nld  esa    P-rrstags. of sariad                          ha  -nmthte e   iLyasas   eieh.  I af TV  ni m  ha  ffst-.
sa     of ihild-banrin   age (15-uk y-.re  hba.s  birth-centra  dani...to                       teess   lolno     n  hasm   nmeim       hw   k  areg  oir-
all __rla  esm   in som 6a age ..anP.                                                             Nla,tltaf  dil g'          ae   smsteego?v,dLt                    mapraInl
ptab`foantn. davtad pnli-rily nat      ne.  a   gesrln. I is aaaa-daasd
P0C9 AND fULVTfIf                                                                                      te be 'daily' if in appears an leas  fom        t n-  a:wea.
Sedan of Food P.ndaitios P.. C#*ina flObl'11-t11009 - fed   of p.t capita ...-eL                  CLnAM  A-mc  Att,anog  "Tr Ca9tio ant fer -  ased en the   .A- af
Praetion of all food c0oditias    Prdata  eacte  e..t and f E-  en                                 tinban trei  darIng the year, OnIAsthgamisneto dheh  .tn1-
ha  n ol -na  ya  bI Ch . C         digitc..ovn   primry gade fag&. anatnp-dsbiaeis
itnsd  f  ngr  eio  ae  tbaet cofth    urt    (..g. neff- an dn
national .va.a. pr-aoe  prioa omighte; 1961-65. 1970. se  1979 date.                            Ttasl. Lobr   for..(ts  maegoe     ttoialyetvapaa                    ieledie
Per tPits aaoalr of inlaies feerset af rnearesmte   - Casgnnd f- rem                              n      f...ss ..nd uaiaLyad ban saladha  heaseni=s    ste                tn...
enarfy eqotrlen   of ant foot eaPplias availabla  ntanr  pea  apin                              treatingpepralahom  of .11 ag-e  Dffimltine  Lt. tegcare                     r
pa  day .  Avilable eappliscaprs  domesia praduntna  iLpo.t. L.ae                              net cosatbla; 1960. 1970 sa  1979 date.
axPolla. st chage  In etat.  Xst.eaPpli.. anld. animal feet,.W. teeds                         fjjJlflg        t _ - P le  labor f...s as.Pera...          f  ntl  at  t
qOsantins    We  it foo  tpro   aig. ne  losse  in dlri-hab.ln. ts.aig-                       4jpjAg,rMS    ao  frsi  ftig  frar,                                   h    s
monge   rt sensanedby FAn bsisd onpI     ilgha   st  far anal eath-                       _igie eeos          -g  a .t no1e  lhar font; 1969, 1979 sAd 1979 data.
pityea  hathaadrn    "eiratelnaoant,bd  flights, tge                                          ig nzrjnoss)  - labor farts ha siting.  o.ttgttatiol,  -anf"tItaa
and eta diennihatta Pofpapltt.adalwn   1   oon                 reeea                      sa  .1ltanrinty, fleer and gee as peeeatg.p of ttaa  Labe fate.  1940.
Staeiakaltlavalo  196-65, 1970,. ad 1977 dae                                              1970 sa  1979 date.
Fat nain  rerir  f ortahefar     P., dayS  -PFotase   . .n.m. of Per caPita.             annsta   atfnost-ntl   oe  e   el   PsreiaipeaIsa
oat e     y of Poet pt  day.  eNl spply of toad ii dsfine  as aha.  Ri-                          naihyver                                      . asee!nnaa,sl, an  fade  Labor fPt
t.ran   fat sI  _onatis  --nbLl.W  by OttA proide fat agata-a                               petenss  o1f ntl   assdfatpplas   fala                               opaie
slaes  f  0   r   of Itet1 Frtttn p.o day sad 20  pa-  of aeles  ant                            1989. 1970. eAt 1979 ban..  The.- ate heed e  11a ethipenia rte
P,ls  prosi. of Iltlob 10 grsa  shold ha a-oi.-           L.aei.  Th-e  slAn-                rsfinL o   age-sa    trtrof the pepal-nem   ead lm   nOls  -M.A
arde are 1awe  nba. tbe- of 75 gramoaf tenl1 plteto sat 23 gEna of                              f-    ,i a tmne  are f-re  matinma  ana-s
eaa_L prloti  at anaeaef., the emold  prapeaad by Fed La the Third                                                     t         L  of pepetlate   .A-e  15 se  69  -   em
tiarl  Faaood vy;1961-65. 1970 aed 1977 duna.                                                  ta  the  -ata  laborfnoa
Feecait t       -eis 'mni fre   emlatalm- F" ataF"          sapl f fatd de-
tie   re    nmls  n   ra  Itp        e   a;16-65  1970 sad 1977 dana.                IN   O tITRI9SJTIm
Child las."  i-65 m,altny hets fear thosaed   - AeseL death. Per.h,              as  ho           Faftamem  oftFivn  InaIahh   ek  e   id        aeitdb                           be
tn,     tnj attit        lif. yta bel- kerg  ne9mbar o0.1df 1years l oflfefin                  The  atta   mtenoas  e'   pptsna    ste  fpnrylw
sfeat laelty Pane ftoy tbaaant- dAsaI deatha of tafete  .Aedtaya                                  aona   btnaFvrtIce,lvlf5    n~i~-sksmdtt4
of ae pr terssadlIv   birth..                                                                AbeIot   rso    mmOvliste.omlvIee F10k amamlma
daea      l ta~  e.a     _noano   Weet I;btnne.ake nd  ea  -                                  -atrf -s.ly adeat  that plie  ..mtiAl sa-fee    asiWs   iS a.
Les   apy I ilolaId    .tretd satfac  eser  at onretetd ban  --:atnietd                    fan -dta glat.       Fret  imaogvlig'ttoaa-Abm "An fter
faettedn  n etoatpet lacanadeat morethen  00 motor  foe  a hetas  s.b lve  aith  a)anfat bhi&. test of living  L. alos ae
reesaaaladcnae vLaul   a    then the. baef atat b.ar   of. th-.1                 hl                 a   ea       erena   orinr   uki  n   eeS'b   a                         lt
oath.v  ta spent a dhepraperntotn  pert aft nb  day ho f ...himg nt
A....y t    mnaE-leatf
ho en   aofat lhetsa  i rrom P.of atlalo Z-  a.   anha.-  -e  nepad.
the OtIi=        -Ain  e  diapsel. with or nInheet t-anan     of h_ss  arn                                                               Pcstl   n  tat    Pn   inon
ste t-anrby  --nb-hn   systa  or the  -s  of pti  prhiea- ea  ehit                                                        gomeni  ba-lpee    W Frejeo           bop-ta
L- POPteAignia  dtrldnW by nesba  at IrA.-ia.L  pkyei-                                                                          N7i
ogn   ulfe   fran    mois1 aobao  an  "nIv'sity level.
Poanip   e    eogha Fa.s-  - FaPutiane   dirised by nn*ar of pr-anhoen
saestf-aLa  peteena ean, prntieal earg. ..W eLteitat ter-a



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROWCT IN 1980 (preliminary)                   ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROWTH (M. constant 1970 prices)
US$ mln.        %                         1965 - 74                      1974 - 80
GNP at Market Prioes          3,569         100.0                            2.4                           -1.6
Gross Doestic Investment        811          23                              6.1                          -18.5
Grosa National Saving           416          12                              5.7                          -20.2
Current Account Balance        -395         -11
Exports of GOods, NFS         1,406          39                              2.1                           -3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,512          42                              3.9                          -11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODWCTSITY IN 1980 (preliuinary)
Value Added                    Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
Agriculture                  510           14.3                 0.873      52.0                   584         25.5
Industry                   1,428           40.1                 0.252      15.0                 5,667        247.0
Services                   1,624           45.6                 0.428      25.5                 3,794        165.4
Unallocated                  -               -                  0.126       7.5                   -            -
Total/Average            .                              1
3,562                                 - 1 ,679                      2             100 0
GOVIENNENT FINANCE
General Government-/                             Central Government
(K  Mln.)           % Of GDP                     ( K  Mln.)             of ODP
*1 M 7~~    1980        1971 - i9
Current Reeoipts                                                                        764          25             26
Current Expenditure                                                                   1,028          34             27
Current Surplus                                                                        -264         - 9             -2
Capital Expenditures                                                                     87           3              6
External Assistance (net)                                                                94           3              3
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                   1965  1970  1972         1974    1975   1976      1977   1978    1979    1980
wrflionr  o-asiiaIding iiid perlod-
Money and Quasi Money                    107.6  355.6  341.0        440.7   493.0  623.0    699.0   640.0   832.0   907.0
Bank credit to Public Sector             -88.7 -163.8  147.2         78.1   373.0  571.0    791.0 1,062.0 1,122.0 1,354.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector             42.3  136.9  165.0        335.8   393.0  399.0    470.0   462.0   483.0   505.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of ODP         15.1   27.8   25.5         23.1    31.1   33.3       35.8    29.1    31.7    29.9
General Price Index (1963 - 100)          76.2  102.6  114.6        132.1   145.4  172.8    207.0   240.9   264.3   295.2
Armual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                        8.2    2.6    5.4          8.1    10.1   18.8      19.8    16.4       9.7    11.7
Bank credit to Pablic Sector                            691.4       -61.9   378.2   53.1      38.5    34.3      5.6    20.7
Bank credit to Private Sector 3                   21.9   -9.7        92.1    17.0    0.2      17.8   -13.2    14.5       4.6
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
}/ Total labor force as of June 1978, distributed by sector according to 1974 pattern; dneaployed are
allo;ated to sec;or gf their norial occupation, _"Unallocated" conasists mainly of unemployed workers
seeking their first job.
i Plgures do not differ significantly from "Central Government."
/  Includes parastatal organizations
..not available
.not applicable
EACP I
April 14, 1981



- 27 -
ZAMBIA                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PADINTs AIND CAPITAL FWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1980
1977     1978 U    1979  1980 (preliminary)                              US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $
Exports of Goods, NFS            963       988    1,378  1,406                Copper                      1,260       91
Imports of Goods, NFS          1,007    1,025    1,046  1,512                 Cobalt                         60        4
Resource Gap (deficit   -)       -44                  32   -106               Lead and Zinc                  40        3
All other commodities        - 24        2
1,384      100
Factor Payments (net)           -100      -140      -124   -229
Net Transfers                    -84      -100       -75    -60
Balance on Current Account    -228        -277       133   -395
Direct Foreign Investment                            .       .        EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31.11980
Net MLT Borroving
Disbursements                 244       364      306    305                                                    US $ Mln
Amortization                    0     _lk        350 1/ 170
Subtotal                      124       203      -44    T35          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Capital Grants                    .         .         .       .         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              200        75        19    160         Total outstanding & Disbursed              1,785
Other items n.e.i               -6         -4        -73    -31
Increase in Reserves (+)         -74       -89        35   -131       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 198041
Gross Reserves (end year)         74        60        88     60
Net Reserves 2/(end year)       -227      -396      -354   -485         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Tmports of petroleum              84        85       121    188         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
fotal outstanding & Disbursed           -  J.
RATES OF EXCHANGE (SDR's or US$ per Kwacha)3/
US$            SDR's
Before February 1973          1.40                              IBRD/IDA LENDING, Sept 30.  1981, (Million US$):
February 1973 - July 1976   1.55                                                                         IBRD         IDA
July 1976 - March 1978                       1.0848
April 1978 - Dec.1980           .            0.9763               Outstanding & Disbursed                349.5        3.4
Undisbursed                             94.6      33.8
ANNUAL AVERAGE                                                    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          444.1       37.2
1977                      1.27           1.Q8  -                                                   -      ---
1978                      1.23           0.98
1979                      1.26           0.98
1980                      1.27           0.98
1/  Including US$186 million of reduction in arrears.
2/ Excluding external payment arrears.
3/  The Kwacha has been pegged to the SDR since July 1976.
4/ Ratio of estimated debt service, excluding arrears and IMF repayments, to exports of goods and non-factor
servi.ces.
not available
not applicable                                                                     EA1DB
10/20/81



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of September 30, 1981
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit                                                         (Less Cancellation)
No.    No.       Year   Borrower          Purpose                  Bank    IDAb  Undisbursed
16 Loans fully
disbursed                                 257.00
900-1           1973   Zambia             Education                33.00                8.91
919              1973   Zambia Elec-      Hydroelectric
tricity          Power                    115.00               4.41
Supply Corp.
1057            1974   Zambia             Urban Development        20.00                0.19
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications        32.00                7.67
1210            1976   Development        Development Finance
Bank of Zambia   Company                   15.00               1.22
1356            1977   Zambia             Education                13.30                6.41
1424            1977   Zambia             Industrial Forestry      16.80                6.63
1566   798      1978   Zambia             Third Highway            11.25  11.25        22.33
863      1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                  6.00       3.43
873      1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance              5.00       4.54
1790   973       1980   Zambia            Third Railway                    15.00       39.79
1923            1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company                              11.91
2001a            1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Dev. Project                         11.__ a
Total                                             564.35  37.25      128.44
of which has been repaid                         125.51    -
Total now outstanding                             438.84  37.25
Amounts sold                        49.55
of which has been repaid           47.80           1.80    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA b                      437.04  37.25
of which is undisbursed                           94.60  33.80      128.40
a Not yet effective
b Prior to exchange adjustment



- 29 -
AN'iEX I1.
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of September 30, 1981
Investment                                                       US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                        Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216 ZA        1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250 ZA       1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing                 -
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20            1.20
307 ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324 ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -      0.54    0.54
394 ZA       1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -        0.10
483 ZA       1979   Nchanga Consoli-   Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -      28.00
527 ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of                                     -
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers       7.60            7.60
Total gross commitments                    38.53   0.98   39.51
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    10.44    -      10.44
Total now held by IFC                      28.09   0.98   29.07
Total undisbursed                          15.15           15.15
=: =



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of Z
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
as of September 30, 1981
Loan No. 900-ZA       Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million Loan of June
6, 1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project, as originally approved (excluding certain university
components and technical assistance that were deleted at Government's
request), was basically completed in March 1980, about 15 months after the
original completion date. The Closing Date, originally September 30, 1979,
has been postponed to March 31, 1983 to enable the Borrower to utilize
savings to finance construction of twelve primary schools originally
included under the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project
(Loan 1057-ZA) and a maintenance program for secondary schools.
Implementation of the added components is about six months behind schedule
due to Government delays in releasing local funds. Civil works contracts
for five of the schools have been awarded and work is proceeding
satisfactorily; and tender documents are being finalized for the remaining
seven schools. A preliminary survey for the maintenance program has been
completed and NORAD has recruited personnel for the program (the
coordinator and three maintenance engineers are in post and two more
engineers are scheduled to arrive shortly).
Loan No. 919-ZA       Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 mil-
lion Loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
January 15, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were commis-
sioned in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and
the reservoir filled. The project is expected to be completed within the
appraisal cost estimates. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation's
(ZESCO) financial performance has not been satisfactory; tariffs were how-
ever increased 20 percent for domestic users and 30 percent for industrial
users during 1979. Largely because of the economic recession affecting
Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare parts and the de-
parture of some expatriate staff. The Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1982 to enable additional civil works on the control of arte-
sianal pressures to be carried out.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1057-ZA      Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services
Project: US$20.0 million Loan of December 6, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: April 1, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion and a PCR has been prepared. In
spite of serious economic problems in the country and technical and
climatic difficulties impinging on the project itself, the project's
primary objective of providing services and improving living conditions in
Lusaka's squatter compounds has been achieved. The catalytic effect on the
continuing development of these communities by the residents themselves has
been, and is being, demonstrated. The housing stock of the city has been
substantially increased through the new sites and services areas.
Technical problems hindering the completion of some of these sites have
been solved and the remaining serviced plots are expected to be allocated
in the next few months. Project works have been virtually completed and
the final disbursement request is expected shortly. Cost recovery remains
a serious problem. However, progress in carrying out the action program
agreed in November 1979 is good. This program is putting into place the
administrative and legal framework that is a prerequisite for improved
collections.
Loan No. 1131-ZA      Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million Loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
About US$4.4 million of the loan still remains to be committed.
Project completion is now expected by December 31, 1983, three years behind
schedule. Increases in tariffs (averaging 75 percent), approved in August
1979, have reduced dependence of the Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (PTC) on government financing of local costs of the project.
The problem of large accounts receivable by PTC from Government and its
agencies continues. Also, operational difficulties with the
semi-electronic main telephone exchange in Lusaka has severely affected
PTC's revenues for FY81; consequently, the rate of return of FY81 is
projected at 5.5 percent against 9.5 percent achieved in FY80 and the
covenanted 11 percent.
Loan No. 1210-ZA      Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million Loan of
February 18, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 23,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The loan has been fully committed for a number of projects in various
manufacturing industries such as chemicals, textiles, packaging, food
processing and in agriculture. Disbursements now amount to over 90 percent
of the loan. The Closing Date has been postponed from September 31, 1981
to March 31, 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Loan No. 1356-ZA      Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million Loan of
January 17, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is progressing well and educational objectives are ex-
pected to be met. All civil works contracts for the Farmer Training
Centers have been completed and the technical assistance team provided by
the Dutch Government for the preparation of teaching programs is making
good progress. Despite the difficult economic situation, the Government
raised full counterpart funds to naintain the construction program. The
contract for the Education Services Center, Phase II, was completed in
October, 1980 and the contract for the Evelyn Hone College hostels was
virtually completed in April 1981. The project (except technical
assistance) is expected to be completed ahead of schedule, in January
1982. Technical assistance staff are expected to complete their work in
December 1982.
Loan No. 1424-ZA      Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November
15, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite staffing
and management problems. Industrial Plantations Division's incorporation,
which should have been completed by December 31, 1978, has not yet been
effected. Planting targets are being exceeded.
Loan No. 1566         Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25
and                   million Loan and US$11.25 million Credit) of June 27,
Credit 798-ZA         1978; Effectiveness Date:  November 26, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness and employment of
technical assistance personnel, project implementation is behind schedule
and completion is expected by the end of 1985, 18 months behind reappraisal
(July 1979) estimates. Progress is being made in recruiting technical
assistance personnel. Procurement documents for road maintenance and
workshop equipment are being finalized; and consultants are finalizing
their report on the MSD reorganization. Consultants have been selected to
carry out feasibility studies of the Mansa-Mwense-Nchelenge road.
Credit No. 863-ZA    Coffee Production Project:  US$6.0 million Credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30 1984
Expatriate and counterpart staffing are satisfactory and the planting
and rehabilitation program for coffee and maize are ahead of schedule.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule. Implementation under the smallholder
component has been slow and haphazard and lacked adequate guidance and
supervision. The coffee research component is underway. The estate com-



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
ponent is in serious financial difficulties because costs have been much
higher than expected. The mid-term review mission that recently visited
Zambia estimates a shortfall of some US$5.0 million. The Government and
RUCOM Industries are seeking additional financing to cover the cost
overruns.
Credit No. 873-ZA    echnical Assistance Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of
December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A planning expert and a project evaluation expert have been hired to
work in the Project Preparation Unit of the National Commission for
Development Planning and a second project evaluation expert is being
recruited. Phase I of feasibility studies for a fuel alcohol project have
been completed and the preparation of a possible fisheries project has just
started; and requests for financing of engineering studies for a rural
water supply project and feasibility studies for a rural electrification
project are being considered.
Loan No. 1790-ZA      Third Railway Project:  US$25.0 million Loan and US$15
Credit No. 973-ZA    million Credit of June 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is cofinanced by the EEC (through a Special Action
credit), AfDB, Japan, OPEC Special Fund, KfW, SIDA and ODA (UK). Project
implementation is proceeding well and disbursements are expected to be
substantially completed by the scheduled Closing Date. Due to a decline in
copper and domestic traffic and lack of tariff revision, Zambian Railways
(ZR) is experiencing financial problems. The contract of the management
team financed by CIDA has expired and the Bank will finance technical
assistance to enable ZR retain key staff and is liaising with other sources
regarding the provision of training assistance.
Loan No. 1923-ZA      Second Development Bank of Zambia Project:  US$15.0
million Loan of January 8, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The loan is almost fully committed for 17 sub-projects in
manufacturing, agriculture and transport.
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. (216-ZA and 250-ZA) - Shoes and Tannery
IFC's investment in 1972 helped finance an expansion project to triple
shoe production to 2.9 million pairs. The project also opened up the
ownership of the Company to local investors. In 1973 IFC's investment
helped finance a tannery to process 300 hides per day to meet the Company's



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
requirement for leather. The foreign exchange situation of Zambia
continued to limit raw material imports by the company. However, more
local materials are now used by the company, and this resulted in 14
percent increase in production during 1980. The company has been operating
profitably.
Century Packages Limited (307-ZA) - Packaging Materials
The plant was completed in 1977, about a year later than
originally anticipated, with an increase in project cost equivalent to 26
percent of total costs. Increased project cost has been met largely
through provision of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds
Agreement. Sales volume during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1980 were
stagnant at the previous year's level. Increases in administrative
expenses, especially provision for doubtful debts, and interest cost
contributed to the loss recorded for the year.
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) (324-ZA) - Development Banking
DBZ principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term
loans and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing,
agriculture and tourism. Since 1979, the volume of DBZ business has been
increasing. Loan approvals, which had stagnated around US$9.5 million per
year in 1976-78, increased to US$15 million in 1979 and almost US$27
million in FY80. Profitability has also improved: between FY79 and FY80,
net profit more than doubled to US$1.7 million. At the end of FY80, the
total portfolio of DBZ was US$27 million.
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (483-ZA) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of US$28 million (of which US$20 milion is for IFC's
account) to NCCM for a cobalt production production project was approved on
September 4, 1979. The project is under implementation.
Kafue Textile of Zambia Limited (KTZ) (527-ZA) - Textiles
A loan investment of US$7.3 million and a contingent commitment
of US$0.3 million were approved in 1980 to assist KTZ US$28 million
expansion. In the expansion, the company s production capacity will be
increased from 10.6 million meters of finished fabrics per year to 18.9
million meters and diversification into the production of cotton blended
fabrics will be carried out. The project is still under implementation and
is scheduled for completion in June 1983.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project               22 months
(b)  Preparation by                              Government of Zambia
and FAO/CP
(c)  First Bank Mission to consider
project                                     September 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission departed                  November 1980
(e)  Negotiations                                September 1981
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveess                April 1982
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.  Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  Establishment of SEC (para. 48).
(b)  Execution of Financing Agreement between Government and SPCMU
(para. 51).
(c)  Establishment of Advance Account and initial deposit (para. 50).
(d)  Appointment of senior planning officer, project accountant and
provincial extension management Officer (para. 53).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Condition of Disbursement
(e) No withdrawals for expenditures for smallholder credit through
ZADB until Financing Agreement is executed (para. 51)
Other Conditions
(f) Annual review of producer prices and biennial exchange of views
on agricultural pricing policies (para. 33).
(g)  Prior to invitation to bid, Government to furnish report on
criteria and data justifying size and siting of agricultural
camps (para. 37).
(h) Revolving account to be established with fees to cover dip tank
maintenance and chemicals (para. 38).
(i) SPCMU to lend project funds only to cooperative societies that
achieve annual recovery rates of at least 95 percent, except in
unusual circumstances affecting farmers- ability to repay loans
(para. 42).
(j) Government to increase in real terms allocation for
non-incremental recurrent expenditures for agricultural and
livestock activities in the Southern Province effective January
1, 1982; and effective January 1, 1983, commence gradual
transfer from capital to recurrent budget of all allocations
covering operating costs of extension services, veterinary
services, tsetse control and project management to achieve full
transfer by project completion (para. 45).
(k) ZADB and SPCMU to prepare comprehensive five-year plans by March
31, 1982 and June 30, 1982, respectively, and progressively
revise their interest rates so that from March 31, 1984, they
would generate reasonable income after covering cost of
borrowings, operations and bad debts (para. 52).



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(1) Government to pay service charge to SPCMU before each faiaing
and marketing season to cover SPCMU-s estimated tradintg costs
(para. 52).
(m)  Employment of qualified and experienced staff in positions of
provincial agricultural officer, provincial extension and
training officer, provincial farm management officer in the
Southern Province and a research officer in MAWD's Planning
Unit; and appointment of Zambian counterparts for all positions
filled by expatriates (para. 53).
(n) Employment of credit manager and research officer by May 1, 1982
(paras. 41 and 53) and two cooperative affairs experts by June
30, 1982 (para. 53).
(o) Appointment of provincial farm management Officer by July 1,
1982 (para. 53).






2~~~~2
4t  I4AtS\at  \%SSb>iC-; 
s- 2R 0 000 10 Z   C)nl    (                - I






_____________________________________                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15605
r   tn gon,Lsffry,k   on°   : i  2b-7                                                 27'                                                  2E S                                          MARCh 1981
ZAIRE       TANZANIA
I    > lL f            OC,5AN                                             CENTRAL               D     IIIulNCE WPOVd INCEf i    rIub,,Ar
ANGOLA j                                                                                                                                                                                                  -d - h t A3 de rgpof ,hlolf
ZLAMBIA       _~ j   As    S2         /\3;u'                                                                                                                                            as~tail'e  n
*- 2A  SAo  n<      hAGA'CARA                                                                                                                                         LUSAKA  Z  'r d  e 0,040,00000
z   jBOTSWANA'5      )   -A:       I    /           >:1                                                                                       
25         /
N~~~~~~~~~o
£0             '1) '                                                                W        d
~~~ ~~~~~4'C~~~~~~~  A ~~~~~Chirunds
LLJ          >  k  t  9 ( §                               {/ ;,  \   \11 30-kainro3
,)*mba ,n,f                                    )   <\  //  //   nAp   /                                                                        SeconoMuchik)  L
2                     ^,/22/    4   q  ;f ;g                                       ,  ,  , Rr i wrLyS~~~~~~155      E      0
N  ~~~~                                      ~~~~~~~~                                                                                               ~0~~~~~~~~
Morlogezi                                  boundama                                                 e         s
rk   t/SOUTHERN PROVINCE
IL- /~~~~~~~ '.  A NI ,    ~ ~     ~             ~            ~           ~           ~          ~        ~         ARICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
',f~~~azez ~CONTOURS AND SPOT ELEVATIONS
Main roads
Secondory roads
m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---Other roads ondi tracks
2  ~~~~~~                                                      -.---.--.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rail,eays
hiI~~~~:  I\~~~~~O/~~~                            iZ7~~~~orholgialregion boundaries
102                                                                                                       ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~914     Ele~vatIon contours, mreters
A1314 Spot el-uations, mneters
State lands
National capital
o Proviecial capital
NAMI A                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ District headquarters
o    Other tomes
GS                                                                                     -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District boundaries
Provincial boundaries
11  20        40       00        50    -  . . Internatianal boundaries
BOTSWANA                                                                                            K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS                                   5






2rH  2r                    23'                I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 15606
rZjAIRE  .wIANZ A 
J - Ge Lv j    9, J   1    4  : ~~~~IMM)1s    C EN TRAL                    T         h- OVlC d h  s
0    zAMBIA  imAL I       __                                                   -  _
% A a t C  1g)    cf  X   X                           rLUSAKA  ',''>'U'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSKAh
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3a,  30 1Rt
2185 5>/t f\>\o   49    1t tsl _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.A
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I/ 14 :-A4               23'i>1/     .5      nU;i3)a  K \lwi 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22 6   19.rv  5 si  4Ft,  0
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I8rWw \  lMa8  '3



