OFFICIALs
CREDIT NUMBER 1193 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Southern Province Agricultural Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1193 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              /               , 1982 between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (herei?after called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS, (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) part, of the Project will be carried out by Zambia
Agricultural Development Bank and Southern Province Cooperative
Marketing Union, Limited, with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank and Southern Province
Cooperative Marketing Union, Limited, part of the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS, the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even-date herewith between the Association and
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank and Southern Province
Cooperative Marketing Union, Limited;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association dated June 30, 1980 (herein-
after called the General Conditions) with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and ZADB and SPCMU of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
Schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "ZADB Financing Agreement" means the Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ZADB pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the ZADB
Financing Agreement;
(c) "SPCMU Financing Agreement" means the Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SPCMU pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the SPCMU Financ-
ing Agreement;
(d) "ZADB" means the Zambia Agricultural DeVelopment Bank,
a statutory body established by the Zambia Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank Act No. 18 of 1979;
(e) "SPCMU" means the Southern Province Cooperative Market-
ing Union, Limited, a cooperative society established pursuant to
the Cooperative Societies Act No. 63 of 1970 and the Cooperative
Society Rules of 1972;
(f) "PPS" means the Office of the Provincial Permanent
Secretary, Southern Province;
(g) "SEC" means the Supervisory and Evaluation Committee to
be established pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(h) "MAWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Development.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Draw,ig
Rights (SDR 15,900,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) p    annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Februa-
ry 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1992, and ending
August 15, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-4-
with appropriate agricultural, administrative, financial and
engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause ZADB and SPCMU to perform, in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations
therein set, forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action
including the provision of funds, facilities, licenses, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ZADB and
SPCMU to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall promptly take all action necessary to permit ZADB
and SPCMU to adjust their interest rate structures to enable ZADB
and SPCMU to comply with their obligations under Sections 4.01 and
4.02, respectively, of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall:
(a) onlend to SPCMU out of the proceeds of the Credit, an
amount not exceeding eight million four hundred thousand dollars
($8,400,000) equivalent to assist SPCMU in carrying out the
Project under a Financing Agteement. to be entered into between the
Borrower and SPCMU on terms" and conditions acceptable to the
Association, which shall include, inter alia, that:
(i) an amount, not exceeding eight million two hundred
thousand dollars ($8,200,000) equivalent, shall be
utilized in carrying out Parts C, D and E.1 of
the Project and shall be repayable in twenty years
including a five-year period of grace and shall
bear an interest rate of not less than eleven
per cent (11%) per annum; and
(ii) an amount, not exceeding two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000) equivalent, shall be made
available to SPCMU as a grant to assist in carrying
out Part E.1 of the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) make available to ZADB, under a Financing Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ZADB on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, an amount not exceeding
six hundred thousand dollars, ($600,000) equivalent from the
proceeds of the Credit to assist ZADB in carrying out Part E.2
of the Project; and
(c) the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SPCMU
Financing Agreement and the ZADB Financing Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SPCMU Financing
Agreement or the ZADB Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall assign to PPS the
responsibility for the day-to-day supervision and coordination of
all Project activities. To this end, the Borrower shall ensure
that PPS:
(i) reviews and consolidates the annual work program
and budget for each Part of the Project prepared by
the respective agencies responsible for carrying
out the Project;
(ii) prepares, not later than June 30 of each year until
the completion of the Project, a proposed consoli-
dated action plan and a budget on a quarterly basis
for the carrying out of the Project in the follow-
ing fiscal year; and
(iii) sends, promptly, a copy of such plan and budget to
the Association to comment thereon.
(b) In addition to the aforesaid plan and budget, the
Borrower shall cause PPS to:
(i) prepare, on the basis of quarterly reports for
each Part of the Project prepared by the respective
agencies responsible for carrying out the Project,
a consolidated quarterly progress report including
Project expenditures and disbursements for such
period; and


﻿-6-
(ii) send, not later than two months after the end of
each such period, a copy of such progress report
to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish SEC with composi-
tion, powers anX. responsibilities acceptable to the Assviation.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) establish and maintain in the Bank,, of Zambia, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, a
Project Advance Account to be used by PPS for the
purpose of meeting recurrent expenditures asso-
ciated with carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project and Project administration; and
(ii) deposit in said Project Advance Account at the
beginning of each quarter, the funds required by
PPS to meet recurrent expenditures required under
(i) above during such quarter.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or
make adequate provision for the insurance of the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for carrying out
Parts A and B of the Project against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project
until the Project is completed.
Section 3.07. With respect to parts A and B of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) furnish to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and


﻿-7-
(b) (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it,
to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of theCredit and to disclose their
use in the Project;-
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the geods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and docuients; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom
the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the invitation of bids under Part A of the Project, a
report on the criteria and field data used to determine the size
and siting of the Agricultural Camps included in said Part of the
Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the Provincial Veterinary Officer in the Southern
Province to determine and ensure that participating farmers pay a
fee adequate to sustain routine dip tank maintenance and replen-
ishment of acaricides under Part B of the Project; and
(b) ensure that the fees so collected shall be deposited in
an account to be administered on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause PPS to:
(a) maintain separate Project Accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project;
(b) have the Project Accounts, including the certificates of
expenditures referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association;
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and


﻿-9-
(d) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said Accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. To(the extent that any withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Credit are made on the basis of certificates of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause PPS, SPCMU and the Provin-
cial Commissioner of Works to retain, until one year after
the Closing Date, the underlying documentation on which such
certificates were based (bills, receipts, invoices or other such
documents) and shall make such documentation available to the
Association for its inspection.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(i) commencing January 1, 1982, increase the annual
allocations to its recurrent budget, in real terms,
for expenditures in respect of Research and Exten-
sion Services and Livestock Development in the
Southern Province, taking into account the addi-
tional costs resulting from the Project; and
(ii) commencing January 1, 1983, progressively transfer
from its development budget to its recurrent budget
all budgetary allocations necessary to cover
operating costs of Extension Services, Veterinary
Services, Tsetse Control and Project Management,
so that, at the time of completion of the Project,
all allocations for such operating costs will have
been transferred to its recurrent budget.
Section 4.04. In order to maintain adequate incentives to
increase agricultural production by smallholders, the Borrower
shall:
(i) annually review and adjust as deemed necessary, in
consultation with the Association, producer prices
taking into account the cost of production to
smallholder producers and the level of border
prices for various crops to determine whether
producer incentives are 6dequate; and
(ii) exchange views on its agricultural pricing policy
with the Association every two years.


﻿- 10-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(i) continue to employ qualified and experienced
staff in the positions of Provincial Agricultural
Officer, Provincial Extension Training oOfficer,
District Tpetse Control Officer and Provincial
Veterinary Officer in the Southern Province until
the Project is completed; and
(ii) employ a Research Officer in the Planning Unit of/
MAWD whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Association, not later than
May 1, 1982.
Section 4.06. In order to strengthen SPCMU's operations, the
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed two Cooperative
Affairs Experts not later than June 30, 1982.
Section 4.07. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ:
(a) a Provincial Farm Management Officer in the Southern
Province not later than July 19 1982; and
(b) a Provincial Extension Management Officer within the
office of the Provincial Agricultural Officer in the Southern
Province as well as an Accountant and a Senior Planning Officer
within PPS, all with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment acceptable to the Association together
with local counterparts for positions filled by internationally
recruited staff.
Section 4.08. Before each farming and marketing season, the
Borrower shall pay SPCMU a service charge sufficient to cover all
trading costs that shall be reasonably estimated by SPCMU to be
incurred in connection with the marketing of scheduled crops
and the distribution of farm inputs in the Southern Province, such
service charge to be computed in accordance with annual procure-
ment plans and criteria satisfactory to the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation and SPCMU.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ZADB or SPCMU shall have failed to perform any of its
respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ZADB or SPCMU will be able to perform any
of its respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) any legal provision governing or applicable to the
organization or operations of ZADB or SPCMU shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect materially and
adversely-the ability of ZADB or SPCMU to carry out any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement or the
efficiency of their respective organizations;
(d) ZADB or SPCMU shall be unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ZADB
or SPCMU or by others whereby any of the property of ZADB or SPCMU
shall or may be distr-Lbuted among its creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ZADB or SPCMU or for the suspension of operations of ZADB
or SPCMU.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and ZADB or SPCMU, as the case may
be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) through (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the Effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the SPCMU Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SPCMU;
(b) the Provincial Extension Management Officer, the Accoun-
tant and the Senior Planning Officer referred to in Section 4.07
of this Agreement have been appointed;
(c) the Project Advance Account specified in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement has been established and an initial amount has been
deposited therein sufficient to cover the recurrent expenditures
for not less than three months; and
(d) the Borrower shall have established SEC in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specifi.*d as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ZADB and SPCMU and is legally binding upon ZADB
and SPCMU in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the SPCMU Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SPCMU and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SPCMU in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date aA4I 10402is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
3 and 4 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Jdresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
The Republic of Zambia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 14 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By                       Y
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Civil works                   4,420,000         80%
(houses, wells,
stores, hard
standings,
crush pens.
and dips)
2.   Vehicles,                     1,950,000        100% of for-
spares                                         eign expendi-
and                                            tures and
equipment                                      80% of local
expenditures
3.   Veterinary                    1,060,000        100% of for-
supplies                                       eign expendi-
under Part B                                   tures and
of the Project                                 80% of local
expenditures
4.   Fertilizer,                   2,390,000        100% of for-
seed and                                       eign expendi-
crop                                           tures and
chemicals                                      80% of local
for on-                                        expenditures
lending
in kind
under Part
C of the
Project


﻿- 16f -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       %,of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
5.   Provision of                      530,000      100%
credit to ZADB
for onlending
under Part E.2
of the Project
6.   Technical                       2,120,000      100% of for-
assistance,                                    eign expendi-
consultants'                                   tures and
services and                                   70% of local
staff training                                 expenditures
7.   Salaries,                       2,650,000      100% of local
allowances,                                    expenditures
wages and                                      up to an
vehicle                                        aggregate
operating                                      disbursed
costs                                          amount of
$1,000,000;
thereafter
70% of local
expenditures
up to an
aggregate
disbursed
amount of
$2,000,000;
thereafter
50% of local
expenditures
up to an
aggregate
disbursed
amount of
$2,500,000;
thereafter 30%
of local
expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated      % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
8.   Unallocated                       780,000
Total                     15,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as tequired to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to December 8,
1981; and
(b) payments for expenditures under Category 5 until the
ZADB Financing Agreement has been executed, authorized or ratified
on behalf of the Borrower and ZADB.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category
and which, in the opinion of the Association, are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to increase the
agricultural production and improve the standard of living of
smallholders in its Southern Province and consist3 of the follow-
ing main components:
Part A:   Agricultural Extension and Training:
Reorganization of the Provincial Extension Service in the
Southern Province to introduce a training and visit system to
provide improved support to farmers engaged in crop production and
animal husbandry, including the employment of staff and the
provision of housing, transport, equipment and training courses.
Part B:   Livestock Development:
Strengthening of the Borrower's Veterinary Services in
the Southern Province and its Tsetse Control Services in the
Gwembe District through the upgrading of Veterinary Stations by
constructing additional cattle crushes and dips, the employment of
staff and the provision of housing, transport, equipment and
veterinary supplies.
Part C:   Input Supply and Storage:
Construction of about sixty (60) rural storage sheds, with a
total capacity of twelve thousand (12,000) tons, in areas not
served by all-weather roads, provision of staff training and
procurement of seed, fertilizer and other agrochemical require-
ments for onlending in kind to smallholders under the Project.
Part D:   Produce Storage:
Construction of about twenty-four thousand (24,000) tons of
storage facilities at key points along the line-of-rail and in
rural production areas and the provision of technical assistance,
equipment and staff training.
Part E:   Credit Development:
1.   Strengthening the credit administration capacity of
SPCMU and its member societies through the employ-
ment and training of staff and the provision of vehicles
and equipment.


﻿-20-
2.   Provision of credit by ZADB to smaliholders for the
financing of agricultural inputs.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of -the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf
price of other goods, offered in such bid;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in
connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall
not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids; and


﻿-22-
(iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the -information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(i) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Zambia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the Republic
of Zambia equal to at least twenty per cent (20%)
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(ii) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(iii) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or gr.Dup B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 23 -
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for
the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or
(ii) fifteen per cent (15%) of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed fifteen per cent (15%) of such price. If.-the
group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evalu-
ated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles, machinery and equipment esti-
mated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
each and, in the aggregate, not more than the equivalent of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) shall be awarded in accordance
with the normal procedures of the Borrower.
2.   Seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and veterinary supplies
shall be procured in accordance with the normal procedures of
the Borrower.
3.   Contracts for the construction of housing, stores and
hard standings and rehabilitation of housing for extension workers
shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with the normal procedures of the
Borrower.
4.    Rehabilitation of extension housing where the procedures
referred to in paragraph 3 above are not practicable may be
carried out by force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿-24-
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or more:
(a) before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications _and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination;
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited;
and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which wodid increase the cost of the contract
by more than fifteen per cent (15%) of the original price, the
Borrower shall inform the Association of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    if      day of          ,
198a.l
FOR SECRETARY


