Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21811-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 98 MILLION
(US$125 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORA
LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Febniary 7, 2001
AFTU2
AFC14
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currecy Unit = CFA
1 CFA = US$0.00154
US$1 = 650 CFA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP                                  Agency for the Execution of Works in the Public Interest
AWPB                                    Annual Work Program and Budget
BTO                                      Build Transfer Operate
CONSERE                                 High Council of Environment and Natural Resources
CSE                                     High Council on Water
CTE                                     Technical Committee on Water
DHA                                     Directorate of Hydraulics and Sanitation
EIA                                     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                                     Environment Management Plan
GOS                                     Govemment of Senegal
ICB                                     International Competitive Bidding
ICR                                     Implementation Completion Report
LACI                                    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS                                     Least Cost Selection
LTP                                     Long Tenn Water Sector Project
M&E                                     Monitoring and Evaluation
ME                                      Ministry of Environment
MEH                                     Ministry of Energy and Hydraulics
NCB                                     National Competitive Bidding
OMVS                                    Organization for the Development of the Senegal River
ONAS                                    National Office of Urban Sanitation
PCU                                     Project Coordination Unit
PEM                                     Project Execution Manual
PMR                                     Project Management Report
PPI                                     Private Sector Participation in Infastructure
QCBS                                    Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SDE                                     Senegalaise des Eaux
SGPRE                                   Management and Planning Unit for Water Resources
SONES                                   National Water Company of Senegal
WSP                                     Water Sector Project
WS&S                                    Water Supply and Sanitation
WTP                                     Willingness-to-Pay
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    John M. McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Richard Verspyck



SENEGAL
LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         3
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   10
2. Key policy and institutional refomns supported by the project                        12
3. Benefits and target population                                                       13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                             16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             19
2. Financial                                                                            19
3. Technical                                                                            20
4. Institutional                                                                        20
5. Social                                                                               21
6. Environmental                                                                        21
7. Participatory Approach                                                               22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       23
2. Critical risks                                                                       24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       25



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          25
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  39
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           71
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                       73
Annex 12: Institutional Reform of the Urban Water Sector                                83
Annex 13: Projected Water Demand and Planned Capacity Investments                       88
MAP(S)
IBRD 31246
IBRD 31247



SENEGAL
LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Affica Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: February 7. 2001                            Team Leader: Richard Verspyck
Country Director: John M. McIntire                Sector Manager/Director: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: P041528                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management, WS -
Sewerage, WU - Urban Water Supply, WY - Other Water
Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [XI Credit     1 Grant      [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 125
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                    Service charge: 0.75%
financing Plan:    SucLocal                                                Foreign "    Tta
BORROWER                                                        2.48           0.00          2.48
IDA                                                            40.00          85.00        125.00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                        3.60          13.03          16.62
BORROWING AGENCY                                                0.49           1.11           1.60
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               2.68           6.02          8.70
EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK                                        5.30          11.92         17.22
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                              10.46          18.74         29.20
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                  3.80           8.63         12.43
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                         5.19          11.72          16.91
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                               0.10           0.07          0.18
COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA)
U.N. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME                                      0.03           0.07          0.10
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                5.40          12.60          18.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                         79.53         168.90        248.43
Borrower: GOVT. OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency:



Oversight: Ministry of Energy and Hydraulics (MEH). Day-to-day Coordination: Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Execution of Components/Activities: Directorate of Hydraulics and Sanitation (MEH-DHA); National Water Company o.
Senegal (SONES); National Office of Urban Sanitation (ONAS); Water Resources Management and Planning Unit
(MEH-SGPRE); Agency for the Execution of Works in the Public Interest (AGETIP).
Contact Person: Madio Fall, Director of Hydraulics & Fadel Ndaw, Project Coordinator
Tel: (221)823-8407                Fax: (221)823-4470                Email: projeau@telecomplus.sn
Other Agency(ies):
National Water Company of Senegal (SONES)
Contact Person: Babacar Dieng, General Manager
Tel: (221) 839-7802              Fax:                 Email: sonestprimature.sn
National Office of Urban Sanitation (ONAS)
Contact Person: Adama Mbaye, General Manager
Tel: (221) 832-3996              Fax:                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
IWO004003X                    2 4   B2005J< p2006    2007W          008
Annual   12.30       20.60      30.10      21.20      20.50     12.00       8.30
Cumulative    12.30      32.90      63.00      84.20    104.70     116.70     125.00 T
Project implementation period: FY2002-2008
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS PAD 4- R.   2000
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Long Term Water Sector Project (LTP) is to achieve sustainable
improvements in the delivery of urban water and sanitation services in unserved and low-income areas of
Dakar and secondary cities. This objective will be pursued by (a) supporting further institutional and
regulatory reforms and policy enhancements, thus consolidating and building on achievements of the
ongoing Water Sector Project (WSP - IDA Cr. 2758); (b) removing major water production and
distribution capacity constraints with the help of private sector financing; (c) supporting rehabilitation of
sewerage networks and increasing waste water treatment capacity; (d) implementing a community-based
program for developing on-site and semi-collective sanitation services; and (e) supporting capacity
development of sector agencies, communities and households.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcome/Impact Indicators
*   Additional people in project areas receiving water supply services;
*   Additional people receiving sanitation services;
*   Improved hygienic practices (water use and excreta disposal) by the target population;
* Volume of sewage collected and treated in Dakar;
*   Financial equilibrium in the urban water supply subsector
*   Operating cash expenditures and asset replacement costs of ONAS covered by its operating
revenues; and
e   The Guiers Lake efficiently managed and protected through an integrated lake management action
plan with decentralized governance executed by a lake management commission, taking into
account multiple user interests and environmental concems.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17269-SE          Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/29/98
The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on
January 29, 1998. The central objective of the CAS is to reduce poverty and improve living conditions of
the population, including the creation of gainfull employment opportunities. This is based on a two-pronged
approach: (i) supporting policies and programs aimed at more rapid and sustained growth; and (ii) ensuring
social sustainability of the programs. The proposed project will follow the CAS by removing a key
infrastmcture bottleneck (Dakar's unmet water demand), and by ensuring the social sustainability of basic
services in urban, peri-urban and small town areas through a demand-responsive approach and a socially
acceptable cost recovery policy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The following are the main issues relating to the delivery and development of potable water and sanitation
services in Senegal:
Urban Water Supply
Institutional Arrangement and Performance: Senegal's urban water supply and sanitation reform program
started in 1993. Specifically, the reforms are aimed at: (i) ensuring the autonomy of the management and a
- 3 -



rational organization of the sector; (ii) encouraging the development of human resources; (iii) supporting
improvements in commercial management and cost effectiveness; and (iv) establishing a new tariff policy
for improving cost recovery and reaching financial equilibrium of the urban water supply subsector in the
medium-term.
As a result of the reform process, a state asset holding company,Soci&t6 Nationale des Eaux du Senegal
(SONES) was created, and operations were contracted out in 1996 to a private operating company,
Senegalaise des Eaux (SDE), under a 10-year enhanced lease agreement procured through ICB. At that
time, neither the Government nor potential private partners were ready to implement a concession-type
transaction. However, the enhanced lease arrangement has some concession characteristics. SDE is
obligated to undertake a certain level of investments for renewing the distribution network directly out of
cash flow from tariffs. The contract includes time-bound performance targets to ensure that the private
operator has an incentive to produce at an optimal capacity while reducing losses and improving collection.
After four years of reform, significant progress has been made in the quality of service delivery, efficiency
of operations and cost recovery, particularly in the payment of water bills by the central public
administration (see Annex 11). Municipalities are now treated as regular customers, and SDE's policy to
cut off water supply is already curbing wastage and rationalizing consumption.
SONES is responsible for managing sector assets, planning and financing investments, and for economic
and quality of service regulation. In the first year after the reform, SONES showed a propensity to
micro-manage the sector and particularly SDE's activities. This pattern has been partially curbed. At the
same time, both parties agreed to openly discuss any pending issues on a regular basis with a view to
understanding their roles and determining compliance (of all parties) with the contracts, which form the
relationship among SONES, SDE and the GOS. Experience to date points to the superiority of separating
planning and financing from regulation, and the need to build regulatory capacity within the duration of the
lease contract.
Cost Recovery  The average water tariff amounts to US$0.65 perm  (415 CFAF), all taxes included.
Under the WSP, an agreement was reached with the Government to implement annual tariff increases to
achieve sector equilibrium, and begin generating a surplus after 2003. The annual tariff adjustments are
calculated on the basis of a financial model simulating the water sector, based on historic data and
projections. Tariff increases take into account the results of the water demand and sanitation tariff studies,
through which the elasticity of water demand to increases in the sanitation tariff has been assessed.
Water Supply Deficit in Greater Dakar Area: The average daily consumption amounts to 125,000 m3/d,
whereas the metropolitan area of Dakar experiences recurrent and seasonal water shortages which have a
detrimental impact on water quality as a result of intermittent supply. Water demand is expected to grow
by 30 percent over the next decade and to triple over the next 30 years. Dakar is currently supplied with
water drawn from fossil aquifers that run the risk of being over-exploited and contaminated by salt water
intrusion. Production capacity was increased under the WSP, but the medium-term deficit resulting from
the growing demand and the need to close contaminated boreholes is estimated at 65,000 m3/d in the dry
season (see Annex 12). In order to eliminate the deficit, surface water will have to be brought from the
Senegal River over long distances (about 240 km), which entails high investnent costs.
Urban Sanitation Services
The Government created the national Office of Urban Sanitation (ONAS) in 1996 as an autonomous public
agency charged with operating and managing sewer networks, urban sanitation and drainage. ONAS was
set up following the broader institutional reform process that took place in the water and sanitation sector
- 4 -



in 1995 to enable accelerated development of the sanitation subsector vis-a-vis the water supply subsector.
Sewerage in Dakar and in secondary centers
Dakar's sewerage network comprises590 km of pipes Oess than 0.2m of sewer per inhabitant). Most of the
sewers were built 40 to 50 years ago and are concentrated in the administrative and commercial sections of
Dakar. Forty-five (45) percent of the sewers need to be rehabilitated. Expansion of the network has not
kept pace with the sprawling urban development. Connection rate in Dakar is about 31 percent, which is
due to the limited scope of the network. In addition, the high cost of connecting to the sewerage system
(around US$400, i.e. more than half the GNP/capita) combined with the cost of internal plumbing,
represents a major hurdle facing households willing to hook up to the system. Discharge of untreated waste
water is the norm, thus leading to widespread pollution of the environment. Cambfrene waste water
treatment plant is the largest facility in operation in the country and treats less than 10 percent of the waste
water generated in Dakar. Connection rate in the main secondary cities of Saint Louis, Kaolack, Thies and
Louga is only 8 percent of the total population and the network is limited to 80 km in all these cities.
On-site Sanitation in Dakar
Conventional sewerage is neither technically nor economically feasible in the major part of Greater Dakar.
On-site sanitation has traditionally not been considered as an acceptable alternative to sewerage due to
existing regulations and the engineering-driven attitude of professional staff in charge of sanitation. About
30 percent of the urban population have no excreta disposal facility; 30 percent share traditional latrines;
20 percent use their own traditional latrines; 1 percent public facilities; 7 percent use private flush toilets
and septic or watertight tanks; and 10 percent use other means. Open defecation remains, therefore, one of
the most prevalent forms of sanitation that increases the risk of contact with excreta material by the
population and particularly by children. Most fecal material collected from on-site sanitation facilities is
disposed into open drains, empty plots or on streets at nighttime, or during rainy episodes Nine (9) percent
of sullage from bathrooms and 48 percent of the wastewater from kitchens are poured on open spaces,
which creates conflicts and tensions among households. According to the 1996 willingness-to-pay study,
64 percent of the population are not satisfied with their sanitation facilities, rating them from fair (44
percent) to poor (20 percent).
The challenge will be to develop demand-based sanitation services, expand the technology menu for on-site
sanitation, introduce hygiene education, increase the participation of small-scale contractors and artisans in
service delivery, develop management capacity at the community level and channel matching funds for
demand-driven sanitation services. Another challenge will be to monitor sanitation coverage in peri-urban
areas of Greater Dakar and set up incentive mechanisms and support systems to increase coverage and
facilitate access to services.
Drainage in Dakar
Dakar has eight main watersheds discharging their run-off into the Port of Dakar, on the shores of
Soumbedioune and to the bays of Madeleine, Fann and Hann. Most of the drainage facilities were built
during the colonial period. The existing 246 km of storm water drainage are ill-maintained, and as a
consequence, they are clogged with solid waste, sullage and excreta material. Open canals are breeding
grounds for mosquitoes and floods are common during the short rainy season. The high cost of traditional
approaches, based on transferring run-off from one point to another, has reduced the ability to provide
drainage services on a large scale and has resulted in a patchwork of systems built to respond to localized
flooding concems. Lack of consideration of alternative approaches, in a city where the rainy season is very
short and rainfall can be intense, has hampered the ability to manage run-off at the plot, and at
neighborhood and district levels. This inability to devise other management schemes has precluded all new
land developments to benefit from appropriate drainage services.
- 5 -



Cost Recovery: A sanitation surcharge of US$0.05/m3 is levied by SDE on behalf of ONAS on water
customers in all cities with a sewer network. The surcharge represents six percent of the water bill for
households using 50 m3 per month of water and five percent for those using more than 50 m3 per month.
Revenues generated by this surcharge are insufficient to finance ONAS operations and maintain sewerage
and drainage networks. As a consequence, ONAS has experienced a CFAF 484 million deficit in 1998 (27
percent of revenues). Achieving financial sustainability of ONAS and finding means to devote resources
for on-site sanitation promotion and development remains a major challenge for the sub-sector.
A portion of the property tax (amounting to US$0.5 million) has been identified by the Government as one
of the resources that local governments should transfer to ONAS, through the equipment find for
municipalities, to finance operation and maintenance of drainage facilities. However, these resources
expected from the municipalities were never made available to ONAS. As a result, operation and
maintenance of drainage facilities in Dakar remain problematic. This situation was compounded by a
confusing division of responsibilities between the municipalities and ONAS where municipalities are
expected to provide resources for services for which they are not accountable.
Water Resources Management
Institutional Framework: The Government has initiated important efforts to improve the integrated
management of water resources and adopted a national WRM strategy in 1996. Its immediate goal was to
set up an institutional and regulatory framework to (i) ensure coherent water resources policy-making and
management; and (ii) improve data collection, monitoring and protection of water resources. A Water
Resources Planning and Management Unit (SGPRE) was created within the Ministry of Hydraulics for
managing and allocating all national water resources, and for issuing permits for ground water extraction.
The High Council on Water, Conseil Superieur de l'Eau (CSE), acts as a steering committee for water
resources policymaking and management, in direct synergy with theConseil Superieur de I 'Environnement
et des Ressources Naturelles (CONSERE). A Technical Water Committee, Comite Technique de l'Eau
(CTE), prepares proposals for water resource development and conservation projects. This institutional
and regulatory framework, planned within the context of the WSP is, however, not yet fully operational.
SGPRE's authority and position need to be strengthened so it can accomplish its function as the national
water resources allocation and management authority.
Problematic Sources of Supply The city of Dakar currently relies on nearby aquifers for its water supply.
Those aquifers have a low replenishing rate and have been exploited well beyond their sustainable yields.
The growing demand for industrial and agricultural water (in particular for market gardening) calls for
improving the allocation and regulation of groundwater abstraction and surface water intake through raw
water charges and pollution control. A comprehensive study, carried out under the WSP, showed that
controlled exploitation of an additional 35,000 m3/day of the Littoral Nord aquifers is possible only until
2005. It was agreed under the WSP to phase out over-exploitation of the aquifers by reducing groundwater
abstraction from the Littoral Nord to 3,300 m3/day by 2005. However, the actual timing of this reduction
depends upon the mobilization of additional surface water resources.
Those resources will come from the Senegal River -- Guiers Lake system, which has to be managed as the
major strategic source of water in Senegal. The additional volume of water that would be abstracted from
the Senegal River will increase from 0.5 m3/second in 2000 to about 6.0 m3/second in 2030. The required
needs are well within Senegal's water rights under the OMVS agreements. However, future low-flow
situations of the Senegal River will depend on the operations of the Manantali Dam when the envisaged
"artificial flooding" operating principle, now under evaluation, will be implemented. This underscores the
importance of establishing an active link between the OMVS and the future Guiers Lake Management
- 6 -



Commission.
Environmental Man agement
The management of the Guiers Lake has substantial social, health and environmental implications.
Already, changes in the water regime of the lake since the construction of the Diama dam at the estuary of
the river have had major environmental and social impacts on riparian small towns and settlements. They
include a Bilharzia epidemic, the spread of aquatic vegetation and major changes in economic
opportunities, most notably a reduction in dry-season pastures, the disappearance of recession agriculture
and a decrease in tree cover. Low-lying land not protected by dykes was either flooded or became
waterlogged. On the other hand, the new water regime has opened the possibility of irrigated agriculture,
where and when sufficient capital and labor were available. Those changes have taken place with little or
no consultation of the affected population.
Changes in the water regime of the Guiers Lake also had an impact on the Senegal River delta ecosystem as
a whole. Progressive dyking and fragmentation of the delta, starting as early as the beginning of the 19th
century, have decimated the ecological services normally provided by similar floodplains. The area
concerned includes the Ndiael, a site critical for migratory water birds from Europe, which is registered as
a wetland of international importance under the Ramsar Convention. The Guiers Lake was historically the
path through which water flowed into the Ndiael and the southern floodplain. Dyking of the lake and its
management independently of the broader context of the delta, would make it impossible to address or
mitigate historical liabilities.
Two other environmental issues are of direct concern to the use of the Guiers Lake for the supply of fresh
water to Dakar. The first is the unregulated discharge of untreated drainage water from the Compagnie
Sucriere Senegalaise (CSS) directly into the lake, which significantly decreases water quality and
introduces pollutants. The other issue is the parallel use of the lake by the Programme de revitalisation
des vallees fossiles (PRVF)," as the supplying source of water to the fossil valley network, extending from
the lake south to the Sine-Saloum. Finally, the current regulatory framework for assessing environrnental
impacts of large-scale investments is very weak. There is no established procedure for the review of EAs
and only in 1999 was an institution designated to review and monitor compliance.
Government Strategy
Urban Water Supply
As a result of progress in implementing the water sector reform, the Govemment concluded that it was time
to address the growing water deficit in Dakar, and specifically, as it affected the low-income urban areas.
The private sector has been invited to participate in the financing and construction of the needed
investments to treat water derived from the Senegal River. At the same time, the Government reiterated its
commitment to (i) reaching financial cash flow equilibrium before the end of the current lease contract and
creating conditions to attract private lenders and investors; and (ii) approving water tariff increases that
would be consistent with the latter objective and which would also remain socially acceptable.
Urban Sanitation Services
The Government acknowledges that the development of the sewerage network cannot keep pace with the
rapid sprawling of the agglomeration. It also recognizes that raw waste water discharge on beaches and in
the ocean will not be tolerated by the population and detrimental to the quality of marine life. The
Government's objectives are to better use existing facilities by increasing the connection rate and
developing more affordable financial arrangements, maintain the actual capacity of the system by
rehabilitating the facilities, and reduce pollution loads by expanding waste water and septage treatment
- 7 -



capacity.
The Govemment has initiated the development of a national urban sanitation strategy involving all
stakeholders, which emphasizes demand-responsive and participatory approaches to the delivery of services
that will reach peri-urban households. The new strategy includes: (i) strengthening of the institutional
framework and a clear definition of the respective roles of the various stakeholders, including the private
sector; (ii) ensuring the financial viability of the subsector; (iii) the choice of a full range of technological
options to ensure sustainable development; and (iv) developing capacity. The challenge would be to benefit
from the synergies of an integrated approach, which will eventually combine the management of the urban
sanitation and urban water supply subsectors at the end of the present lease contract with SDE.
Cost Recovery
The Government agreed to prepare a new integrated water and sanitation tariff structure to be implemented
before the end of 2001 and to apply the annual percentage increase differentialy to the various tariff
categories. The aim of the new tariff structure is to better serve the poor while ensuring sustainable sector
development; it wil include a social tariff which, at a minimum, would cover operating costs and could
reflect a coherent system of direct subsidies. The Government also agreed toincrease progressively the
sanitation surcharge to more accurately reflect the value of service received by users while remaining
affordable and compatible with the users' willingness-to-pay.
Government's approach to drainage financing will continue to rely on the use of a portion of the property
tax for operation and maintenance of drainage facilities and the use of grants from the Government for
investment. The Govermment is analyzing the option of shifting back operation and maintenance
responsibility of drainage facilities to local governments.
Water Resources Management
The Government agreed to enhance SGPRE's status to become equivalent to a Directorate of Water
Resources with the necessary mandate and political backing to efficiently manage Senegal's water
resources. In addition, more emphasis is being placed on SGPRE's autonomy and self financing capacity.
The main source of income will be the water licensing fees and raw water abstraction charges *devance
d'exhaure) from aquifers and surface waters. SGPRE will prepare and implement a strategy for achieving
self financing and improved financial management, based on a revised raw water abstraction tariff
structure. Although the fees will be relatively small, compared to the market value of water, they are of
significant importance to the sustainability of WRM, provided that revenue collection from the abstraction
is vigorously implemented.
Environmental Man agement
The Government's strategy for environment is based on the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP),
which was adopted in March 1998, and associated strategies, such as the Biodiversity Strategy. The
NEAP emphasizes community participation in decisionmaking, updating of environmental legislation and
the strengthening of the institutional framework for environmental management. A key institution is the
Department of Environment, which is charged with the review and monitoring of environmental
assessments. In the absence of a stand-alone environment support project (ESP), implementation of the
NEAP and capacity building are done through the Environment Management Plans (EMP) that are
associated with sectoral projects.
In response to the need for coherent and efficient management of Guiers Lake, SGPRE has explored a
broad range of interconnected issues, including enhanced monitoring and modeling of the lake, legal and
regulatory framework, socio-economic conditions and concerns, institutional and local governance issues.
- 8 -



Building on those results, the Government now supports the preparation of an integrated Lake Management
Action Plan and the establishment of a Lake Management Commission, to enable local govemance of the
Action Plan. The Lake Management Commission will operate under the authority of the CSE, and under
the guidance of a General Assembly of stakeholders that will include water users and representatives of
riparian communities. The Commission will also oversee a Lake Management Unit that will control and
monitor the flow of water from the Senegal river into the lake and all forns of water abstraction from the
lake, including the supply of water to the PRVF. Compliance with national environmental regulations will
be ensured by having the Management Plan subjected to an Environmental Impact Assessment, under
national regulations, prior to its adoption by the Management Commission.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Water Deficit in Dakar
In order to be able to respond in a quick and efficient manner to the unmet demand, GOS decided to allow
the participation of a private sector investor in the expansion of water supply production. A full range of
options for the participation of the private sector was explored (see Section DI - Project Alternatives). The
treatment plant and pumping station are procured through ICB in the form of a DBF (Design, Build and
Finance) contract whereby potential contractors have been invited to submit a technical proposal to design
and build the treatment plant and pumping station on a turnkey basis and, at the same time, but separately,
a financing proposal for the financing of the contract is submitted. The total investment cost is about
US$18 million for a total treatment capacity of 65,000 m3/day. The total final capacity of the treatment
plant (135,000 m3/day) will be built in two successive phases in order to reduce the financial impact of the
new investments on the sector and to follow (as closely as possible) the water demand curve as projected in
the demand study, and thus minimize the time during which the new pipe and treatment plant operate at less
than full capacity.
ImprovingAccess to Urban Sanitation Services
Due to the high cost of sewerage systems and its water intensive nature, expansion of the sewer network to
the entire city of Dakar is not economically feasible nor technically justifiable. However, the existing
sewerage system represents an important infrastructure asset that is still the most effective solution for the
densely populated areas occupied by high water consumption households. The project will (i) improve the
efficient use of the existing sewer network by rehabilitating the most damaged sections of the network; (ii)
enhance the effectiveness of the network by increasing the number of connections complementing an effort
initiated under the WSP; and (iii) address financial viability of the sanitation subsector by supporting the
implementation of an appropriate tariff policy to finance at least recurrent costs and a more effective
participation of the private sector in maintaining the facilities. The project will also improve the efficiency
of existing treatment facilities and expand treatment capacity to cope with the increased volume of waste
water.
The project will also support the participatory approach for developing demand-driven sanitation services
by: (i) increasing efficiency and cost reduction, through a much larger involvement of the local and
small-scale private sector in delivering sanitation services; (ii) developing capacity of artisans and
small-scale private sector to market their skills and provide affordable sanitation services; (iii) providing
matching funds as a complement to financial and/or labor participation from households and communities;
(iv) developing information, communication and hygiene 4lucation in relation to environmental sanitation;
and (v) facilitating transactions by hiring facilitators like NGOs and efficient and competent contract
management entities like AGETIP.
-9-



Integrated Water Resources Management
The WRM issues that wili be addressed by the project are: (i) the need for continued strengthening of
SGPRE; (ii) restoring sustainable abstraction of groundwater resources; and (iii) the lack of coherent and
sustainable management of Guiers Lake.
Environmental Management
The project will address the following environmental issues:
*  preservation of groundwater resources, through the development of alternative surface water
resources;
*   establishment of an appropriate framework for environmental management, through the provision
of technical advisory services and support to the Directorate of Environment of the Ministry of
Environment;
*   sound management of the Guiers Lake, in consultation with local populations by supporting the
establishment of the Lake Management Commission and financing the preparation of the Lake
Management Action Plan;
*  rehabilitation of ecological functions in the Senegal River Delta, through the financing of feasibility
studies; and
*  reduction of environmental pollution and health hazards in Cap Vert.
Environmental Health
Potential health problems, which could be caused or exacerbated by the project include the more obvious
aspects such as water pollution, but also many of the less obvious vector-related dimensions, primarily
mosquitoes, which spread malaria, and snails, which can spread Bilharzia, both of which are serious health
problems in Senegal. Both of these diseases have traditionally been most pronounced in rural areas, but
malaria has increasingly become a problem in urban areas. Ihese problems are addressed primarily in two
ways along the path of water production near the Guiers Lake up to its final destination in Dakar.
Whereas, efforts around the lake will concentrate on breaking the cycle of transmission of malaria and
Bilharzia, efforts in Dakar will concentrate on diarrheal diseases.
HIVIAIDs prevention and awareness
A major national program was launched against HIV/AIDS and STD (Programme National de Lutte
contre le SIDA, PNLS). Donors contribute to the PNLS through UNAIDS. Infrastructure projects can
play a role in HlV/AIDS prevention and awareness by: (a) facilitating the development of appropriate
HIV/AIDS prevention messages; (b) providing access of health authorities to specific groups involved with
the projects; and (c) developing training materials for HIV/AIDS prevention that can be used for other
infrastructure projects. The LTP will address these issues by collaborating with GOS programs by
enabling access to potentially high risk audiences associated with the project: (a) construction crews; and
(b) temporary fishing settlements that might be built in conjunction with added seasonal fishing that might
come about under the Environmental Management Plan for the Lake.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises seven components:
*   Urban Water Supply Component (Dakar): This component will be implemented by SONES
and will help to: (i) increase production and transmission capacity to eventually meet the water
demand; (ii) increase the number of water service connections; (iii) restructure Dakar's water
- 1 0 -



distribution network to enable it to handle increased volumes; and (iv) increase water storage
capacity.
*  Urban Water Supply Component (Secondary Centers): This component, also implemented by
SONES, will help to: (i) expand and reinforce the distribution networks in Kaolack, St. Louis
and Tambacounda; (ii) expand production and storage capacity; and (iii) provide water service
connections and standpipes.
* Sewerage and Drainage Component: This component will help to (i) map the sewerage network
in Dakar; (ii) provide sewerage connections in Dakar, St. Louis, Louga, and Kaolack (iii)
rehabilitate and expand treatment facilities in Dakar and the same secondary towns; and (iv)
improve drainage facilities in Triangle Sud in Dakar.
*   Peri-urban Sanitation Subprojects: This component will be implemented by AGETIP under an
agreement with ONAS. It will provide grants to communities and households in the peri-urban
areas of Dakar to improve their sanitation facilities through (i) the construction of household
latrines; and (ii) the construction of semi-collective sanitation systems.
*  Water Resources Management Component: This component will be implemented by SGPRE
and will help to (i) provide technical assistance to the regulatory functions of MEH; (ii)
develop monitoring systems for water quality and groundwater abstraction; (iii) construct
small water retention stiuctures; and (iv) rehabilitate dykes and gates around the Guiers Lake.
*   Environmental Management Component: This component will be managed by MEH and
implemented by ME. It will support: (i) the development and execution of the Lake
Management Plan; (ii) the establishment of the Environmental Mitigation Committee and The
Lake Management Commission; (iii) the rehabilitation of ecological conditions in the Ndiael;
and (iv) the preparation of rehabilitation studies for the Baie de Hann.
*   Capacity Building Component: This component will be implemented jointly by MEH, SONES
and ONAS. It will help to: (i) increase the efficiency of public entities involved in the water
and sewerage sector by strengthening their capacity for planning and management; (ii)
restructure the sector's institutional and regulatory framework; and (iii) develop/strengthen the
capacity of small private and community enterprises to respond to the demand for services in
urban and peri-urban areas.
A. Urban Water Supply - Dakar      Urban Water       117.62      47.3     62.17       49.7
supply
B. Urban Water Supply - Secondary   Urban Water       11.69       4.7      4.87        3.9
Centers                            Supply
C. Sewerage &Drainage              Sewerage           70.17      28.2     22.62       18.1
D. Peri-urban sanitation           Other Water        29.28      11.8     20.27       16.2
Supply &
Sanitation
- 11 -



E. Water Resources Management      Natural             8.57       3.4      4.33        3.5
Resources
Management
F. Environmental Management Plan    Natural            1.55       0.6       1.55       1.2
Resources
Management
G. Institutional                   Institutional       8.05       3.2      7.69        6.2
Strengthening/Capacity Building    Development
H. PPF Refinancing                                     1.50       0.6       1.50       1.2
Total Project Costs                 248.43     100.0    125.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                  248.43      100.0    125.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Strengthening the Water Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework: The institutional framework
adopted by the Government, in the context of the ongoing WSP, will be revised in preparation of the second
generation public-private partnership in the water supply sector (for example, a concession). Options will
be considered for unbundling the tasks of asset management and investment from the reguLatory functions
of SONES and reassigning them to existing, reformed or new institutions. Policy, planning and the asset
holding function would remain with the "core Ministry," including long-term planning, investments, and
control of assets owned by the State. Regulatory functions would need to be separated by creating an
independent and specialized regulatory agency, either by transforming SONES into a regulatory body, or
by setting up a new autonomous regulator. The regulatory fratmework should be completed and fully
operational in the year 2006, when the current lease contract with SDE expires in order to be ready for the
second generation arrangement, which is likely to be a 25 to 30-year concession. Regulation will be a
priority of the capacity building component of the proposed IDA credit, including an exposure to the
achievements in other countries of the region as well as the creation of a conceptual framework.
Improving Cost Recovery and Increasing Access to Sanitation Services: The project will support
implementation of a tariff policy aimed at increasing the level and scope of the sanitation surcharge for all
water users and reducing the gap between the water and the sanitation parts of the tariff over time. Running
cost of the sewerage networks will still be financed through the existing sanitation surcharge on water bills.
This surcharge will be increased to assure appropriate maintenance standards and renewal costs of
short-lived assets.
The project will support the Government policy of facilitating access to the existing sewerage network by
providing funds to cover part of the cost of the connection after a down payment has been made by
households and allow for multi-year payment of the balance. This arrangement would made connections
affordable to those not yet hooked up and close to the sewerage network.
The project will also support the Government policy of extending sanitation services to the less affluent
sections of the urban areas by promoting demand-based sanitation services while expanding the range of
on-site or community sanitation facilities. On-site sanitation facilities and community sanitation are the
most promising ways to increase access in a sustainable way and ensure effective maintenance of facilities.
In line with the findings of the WTP study and the beneficiary assessment study, 50 percent of the capital
- 12-



costs of typical facilities (under a ceiling defined for each type of facility) will be financed by the project
and the balance will be paid by the households in addition to operation and maintenance of the facilities.
Improving the Operational Efficiency of Sanitation Services: The Government is considering the
prospect of reforming the institutional setting of the urban sanitation sector either by changing the status of
ONAS from EPIC to state corporation ("Societi Nationald') or allocating asset-holding responsibilities to
SONES while leasing sewerage operations to a private operator. The final Government decision should
take place before the end of 2002. As an interim measure, the Government has agreed to grant ONAS an
exemption from public sector procurement procedures in order to help speed up procurement under the
project. The project will support capacity building activities to increase technical expertise, to strengthen
accounting and financial management. The project will address the operational efficiency of ONAS by
facilitating the outsourcing of operation of sewerage and pumping stations to local/international private
sector firms selected competitively.
Sustainable and Participatory Management of Resources: The project will support Govermment's efforts
to (i) increase transparency in allocating of water resources; (ii) increase stakeholders' participation in the
management of groundwater and surface water; and (iii) enforce the regulatory framework and cost
recovery policies in an equitable manner. The project will finance baseline studies (including modeling of
the aquifers) and environmental assessments and assist in the introduction of the participatory approach.
3. Benefits and target population:
Reduced cost of basic water services for the beneficiaries: The proposed project is geared to improving
access to safe drinking water and sanitation in poor fringe areas of Dakar and small towns wherehigh
prices are currently paid to alternative water service providers. For example, in secondary cities, water
vendors charge over three times the official price, which demonstrates people's capacity to pay for regular,
safe, on-site water. Getting water services closer to households will limit reliance to water vendors or/and
increase turnarounds by water vendors. As a consequence,the financial burden of water expenses on
family budgets will be reduced or households will be able to consume more water without increasing their
water expenses.
Increased Coverage of Water Supply Services: It is estimated that the project will provide, for the first
time, safe water supply to about 600,000 people in Dakar and 200,000 people in other urban centers. In
addition, Dakar's overall population would benefit from the proposed project as the water deficit will be
eliminated, a 24-hour water supply will be effective by year 2000, and urban fringe areas will enjoy the
same quality of service as related to pressure and availability of water.
Increased Sanitation Coverage: Population living in urban areas covered by the project, and particularly
low-income households in peri-urban Dakar, will benefit from better sanitary conditions as a result of
increased sanitation coverage, changes in hygiene behavior, and the overall environmental improvement
resulting from a reduction in the disposal of untreated septage. Those connected to the sewerage network
will no longer pay for septic tanks or vaults emptying, which can represent a substantial part of households
expenses. It is estimated that about 90,000 people in Dakar and 50,000 people in other urban centers will
benefit from sewer connections, whereas about 400,000 people will receive on-site sanitation services.
Environmental Health Improvement: The health of the population should improve on four counts, from
reduction in (a) urban malaria from improved drainage that could help reduce exposure to mosquitoes; (b)
reduction of Bilharzia and malaria around the lake resulting from the Environmental Management Plan
(water levels would be decreased for 2-3 months to allow shoreline breeding grounds for mosquitoes and
- 13-



snails to dry up); and (c) likely reduce probability of being in contact with fecal material and possibly
HIV/AIDs increased awareness due to increased information on preventative measures.
Increased capacity for Artisans, Small Scale Enterprises, local consulting firms and NGOs, and
communities: Small-scale enterprises and artisans will benefit from the project by providing management
services for community sanitation facilities and by building on-site sanitation facilities. They will receive
training to enhance their skills and management performances and they will improve their capacity to
market their services. Local consulting firms will be involved in designing community sanitation systems
and supervising construction works performed by small-scale contractors. They will be trained to respond
to requests for proposals and on national procurement rules. They will also increase their technical
capacity in urban sanitation. Existing community based organizations (CBO) or to be formed CBOs will
be involved in managing the peri-urban sanitation component, monitor the performance of NGOs and local
artisans, interact with NGOs and set up management committees for operating and maintaining community
sanitation facilities. They will be trained in contracting out sanitation services to the private sector and to
monitor contracts between communities and private service providers.
Improvement of Water Sector Regulatory Capacity: The proposed project will improve water sector
regulatory capacity, and strengthen the management and planning capacity of ONAS, MEH and SGPRE.
Staff from SONES, ONAS, and MEH will improve their skills in strategic planning, monitoring and
evaluation of demand driven services and improve their skills and competency in using participatory
approaches and building partnerships with private service providers and NGOs.
Population affected by the water level of the Guiers Lake: The proposed project will pay due attention to
mitigation measures to improve the situation of the population affected by the required control of the water
level of the Guiers Lake. This project will help in developing a Lake Management Action Plan, taking into
consideration the interest of all stakeholders in the lower Senegal River region. The project will facilitate
direct community-based awareness building and infrastructure development, supported by NDF, and
carried out in cooperation with relevant NGOs represented in the region. The project will also take into
consideration the permanent "administrative village" that will be constructed around the water treatment
plant, as well as temporary fishing settlements that might arise to take advantage of new seasonal fishing.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over 2001-2007.
Overview and Coordination: Project components will be implemented by each interested agency and
supervised by the project coordinator of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) set up under the WSP within
the Direction of Water Works and Sanitation (MEH-DHA). The PCU has been (since 1998) the PCU for
almost all donor-financed projects in the sector. It has in place rather well-established project management
and accounting procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is adequately staffed and has a good track record;
major implementation problems are therefore not expected. As has been an established practice during
project preparation, the PCU will cooperate closely with other MEH departments in the practical
implementation of different project components. The PCU will maintain full financial control and
responsibility for the entire project, with general oversight of technical matters as well. This arrangement
has been functioning successfully for at least two years and will be maintained.
SONES will manage the overall implementation of the urban water investment program. Rehabilitation,
extension and connection works will be implemented by private firms after a competitive bidding process.
SONES will hire consultants to prepare detailed technical studies and bidding documents, help evaluate
- 14 -



bids and supervise construction works. Water service connections will be implemented by SDE, the lease
operator, based on connection costs included in the lease contract.
ONAS will manage the overall implementation of the sanitation components, including the sewerage
component in Dakar and secondary cities, the peri-urban sanitation component in Dakar and the drainage
component in Dakar. ONAS will hire consultants to prepare detailed technical studies and bidding
documents, help evaluate bids and supervise construction works for the sewerage and drainage.
Implementation of major civil works for the above will be carried out by contractors awarded through ICB.
ONAS will delegate to AGETIP the management of the subprojects included in the peri-urban sanitation
component. Beneficiaries (households and communities) will develop their subprojects with the assistance
of local NGOs and CBOs. Subproject proposals will be submitted to ONAS for approval. Once the
subproject is approved, AGETIP and the beneficiary will enter into a grant agreement. AGETIP will be in
charge of contracting works, goods and services required to execute the subprojects. Beneficiaries will be
responsible for sustaining services and encouraged to undertake participatory monitoring and evaluation of
their activities.
SGPRE will be responsible for recruiting consultants to carry out studies and training under the water
resources management component.
The Ministry of Environment will manage three components of the EMP: (i) strengthening of capacity to
review EAs and monitoring their implementation, (ii) rehabilitation of ecological functions in and around
the Ndiael; and (iii) feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the Baie de Hann.
Financial Management Arrangements: Coordination and monitoring of the LTP will be similar in
part to the arrangement under the ongoing WSP. The PCU will carry out project financial management
on behalf of SGPRE and MEH and retain global financial accountability for the project. ONAS and
SONES will carry out the financial management of their respective components. A draft project
execution manual (PEM), providing the necessary guidelines for all implementing agencies, was
prepared and reviewed with the Govemrnment during the appraisal mission. The PEM incorporates the
financial, project and procurement management reports to be produced according to LACI procedures.
This new approach will be enabled by the establishment and maintenance of new financial management
systems within the project implementing agencies in order to generate the necessary information on a
timely basis.
A review of the financial management systems of project entities was carried out (see Annex 6). It
concluded (i) that SONES and the PCU meet the Bank's minimum financial requirements, but require
improvements in budget monitoring for LACI implementation; and (ii) that ONAS is currently
implementing a full accounting system with the help of an external accounting firm, but does not have
in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely Project Management Reports (PMRs). It was agreed that ONAS will complete the
reorganization of its financial and accounting department and establish a satisfactory financial
management system as a condition of credit effectiveness. It was also agreed to strengthen the PCU
with a financial management specialist, who will be appointed as a condition of credit effectiveness, so
that all project entities will be eligible for LACI disbursements no later than 18 months after the date of
credit effectiveness. In the interim, existing disbursement procedures and a transitional PMR will be
used. One special account will be opened for the project.
- 15 -



Government agreed to ensure that SONES and ONAS continue to (i) prepare their financial statements in
accordance with international accounting standards, and have their accounts audited in accordance with
International Auditing Standards by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) submit their audited
accounts to IDA within six months after the close of the fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: Continuous monitoring, annual reviews and a mid-term
evaluation will be based on predetermined indicators, which will measure inputs, processes, outputs and
outcomes. Performance and monitoring indicators are defined in Annex 1. The overall project monitoring
and evaluation system will be guided by the Project Design Summary and the PEM. Monitoring of project
activities in a systematic fashion will be reinforced and will include the effects of the demand management
pilot project, its results and potential for wider city replication. This effort will be complemented by the
use of local consulting firms. Quarterly reports on the progress of each project component and on the
evolution of monitoring indicators would provide timely and updated information on project
implementation, highlight problem areas, recommend actions to be taken and comment on progress in
resolving issues and adopting previous recommendations. The Government agreed to take all reasonable,
remedial action (after discussion with IDA) needed for the proper execution of the project, efficient
management of the institutions, or the meeting of set performance targets. An in-depth, mid-term review
will be carried out 30 months after the effectiveness of the credit. The review would be organized by the
PCU in collaboration with all stakeholders.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An exhaustive set of alternatives for the long-term water supply of Greater Dakar was explored during
project preparation. Those altematives, which cover various scenarios of technical options, financing
strategies and various levels of private sector participation are as follows:
(a)    The "Canal de Cayor" option was examined as an altemative to satisfy the long-term  demand for
water in Dakar. Under this option, a 240 km canal would channel water from the Guiers Lake to the Thies
Region, also supplying water for aquifer recharge along its course and irrigation water for some 8,500
hectares. Senegalese authorities have considered this option for more than a decade, but it never attracted
donor support due to the high costs of excess capacity and over-estimation of demand on which its
economic justification was based. Water would have to be pumped 20 m3/sec to a height of about 80
meters at the head of the canal, while toal demand for potable water in Dakar in the dry season is
estimated at 1 m3/sec in year 2000 and rising to about 5.7 m3/sec by 2030. It became clear that the
solution had to be re-assessed, both from a technical and multi-sectorl water resource management
perspective, before a final decision could be made. The IFC strategic review of the sector concluded that a
large canal (as opposed to gradual investments in pipes) would be an excessively expensive proposition,
which could not be financed by the private sector.
(b)    Several scenarios were considered in structuring the financing plan of the LTP, including changes
in key parameters, such as the level of IDA participation in the urban water component, securing financing
from private sources for the KMS treatmnent plant and pumping station, and postponing the year of
reaching financial equilibrium. The option of postponing the year of reaching financial equilibrium from
the year 2003 to, say, 2005, was considered but abandoned, since it was feared that a change in one of the
key elements of the new financial policy introduced under the WSP would have a negative impact on the
credibility of the entire sector reform. A second option of 100 percent donor-financing of the LTP was also
dropped, since this would send a negative signal to the private sector on the feasibility of ever tapping
- 16 -



private capital to finance such projects and would be inconsistent with the government's long-term strategy
of gradually creating conditions for increased participation of the private sector in financing future
investments. A third option of financing the production facilities by the private sector and the rest of the
water supply component financed by donors was also rejected, since this would have resulted in annual
tariff increases of 6 percent through 2003, far above the level considered to be socially and politically
acceptable by the GOS. This was complicated by the issue of mismatch between the term of available
financing (generally about 10 years) and the economic life of the asset (about 50 years) being financed.
(c)    A solution to the problem of the mismatch between financing and asset life could have been to
allow a put option for the assets being financed. However, such an option can only be issued by IDA on
behalf of a government, and not of a state-owned company such as SONES, the state-owned asset holding
company. In the absence of a put option, the market was not ready to take the refinancing risk, which
occurs when the initial financing reaches maturity and must be refinanced.
(d)    The option of IDA financing the entire water component of the LTP in a form similar to the WSP,
i.e. 55 percent equity/45 percent debt was also examined and rejected for the following reasons: (a) no
private sector participation; and (b) IDA resources would have concentrated on water supply only instead
of sanitation, which is contrary to one of the objectives of the LTP. Moreover, the fmancial simulation of
this option revealed that the required annual tariff adjustments would be 6.21 percent in order to reach
fmancial equilibrium in 2003, in spite of the favorable terms of the financing provided by IDA (55 percent
equity, 45 percent debt on IBRD terms).
(e)    The option was also considered to replace the existing lease contract with SDE with a 25-30 year
concession but rejected since (i) direct negotiation with SDE would not necessarily ensure the most
economic conditions for the country in the absence of competitive bidding and would not have been
transparent; (ii) selecting a concessionaire through ICB and terminating the current contract with SDE
would entail a high cost for the GOS in the form of indemnity payment for breach of contract and would
have created a bad precedent.
(f)    Finally, the Govemment engaged IFC's Corporate Finance Services Department to advise on how
to bid out to private investors and operators a proposal to increase the production and transmission
capacity under a build, transfer and operate (BTO) arrangement. The private investor/operator would
have been chosen through ICB. A thorough analysis, commissioned by IFC, of water demand over the next
20 years and the financial implications of such an arrangement on the financial equilibrium of the sector
and the level of average water tariffs demonstrated that this option was significantly beyond the cash flow
generating capacity of the sector and the willingness to pay of the Senegalese water consumer. The BTO
option was then eliminated by the Government, which decided instead to pursue the DBF option.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
, -  f == . .  z       ;  , f,   LfatestSupervison
Sector Issues                     Pr-oject          -: -Ratings
:. -  :   -   -   -:  -.   :   -   -;   :   -- -   -an:1-ftic eed  proJeds  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Sector reform to introduce private  Water Sector Project (CR        S            HS
participation in operations       2758-SE)
- 17-



Water supply and sanitation in      Community Nutrition (CR           HS             HS
peri-urban areas                    2723-SE)
Preparation of urban sanitation     Urban Development &                S            HS
strategies & development of financing  Decentralization (CR 3006-SE)
options
Other development agencies 
Private sector participation in     Rural Water Supply Project by
operations and maintenance of rural   Agence Francaise de
water and sanitation                Developpement (FD)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   -E.,,,ES.-... ---Eiii..E.
...    -.   E  -PE!   , , ,, li; -- S ! E : i~~~~~~. .. .. .. ..   id....
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The ongoing project in the water sector in Senegal paved the way for a water sector reform. A private
operator, SDE, was contracted into the restructured sector under the ongoing WSP in order to increase
operating efficiency. SONES is thus allowed to focus on building capacity to plan sector development and
monitor SDEs performance. This approach achieved measurable improvement in the water sector
perfonnance but neglected sanitation The current project will address this gap by developing and
implementing a revised tariff policy in order to finance the recurrent costs of sanitation investments as well
as hygiene education and sanitation promotion.
Demand-driven on-site sanitation has been recognized as the most effective approach to sustainable
sanitation services. The sanitation component and particularly the design of the peri-urban sanitation part
are centered around community and households participation and increased information. Informal local
private sector has been for years the only alternative to service delivery in peri-urban areas. Use of
small-scale local private sector is particularly suited to provide cheaper sanitation services under flexible
fiancing arrangements that are affordable to low-income communities. The project will build on the pool
of existing artisans and small-scale contractors, provide them with training to improve their competency
and help develop a market for sanitation to increase job opportunities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOS has shown steady commitment in developing its water supply sector, and IDA has been closely
worling with the Ministries of Hydraulics and Finance in implementing the ongoing WSP. GOS is
committed to a financially viable water supply and sanitation sector with limited, targeted subsidies, if
needed, so as to minimize political interference in sector management. In addition, the Government has
amply demonstrated its commitment to private sector participation in the delivery of water supply and
sanitation services, by enforcing the ongoing lease contact and its openness to explore options to attract
private investments under the proposed project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has had continued involvement in the Senegal water sector through three previous projects. For
almost two decades the Bank has maintained an extensive dialogue with GOS to support efficient sector
development leading to the introduction of a private sector operator in 1994. The Bank acquired a
thorough understanding of the challenges facing the water sector and also brought wider regional
experience to bear on its advice to the Senegalese Government. There is a direct linkage between the
proposed project and the proposed private sector financing of the additional capacity of surface water
treatment. Internal coordination is critical on issues related to the regulatory, economic and institutional
- 18 -



framework of the project. Continued Bank involvement in the water sector would also contribute to
ensuring sustainability of institutional reform and mitigate risk perception vis-a-vis private investors. The
Bank's support to the Government in developing a legal and regulatory framework and improving
institution and capacity building augurs well for increased participation of the private sector in
infrastructure financing (PPI) which is an important direction taken by the Government. The Bank's
support should also increase transparency and the quality of the PPI process.
The Bank in cooperation with the Water and Sanitation Program has been very active for the last ten years
in helping develop and implement demand-based on-site sanitation programs in different countries in
Africa. These projects have been successful in providing sustainable sanitation services for communities in
general and for low income households in parficular. These programs have demonstrated that households
and communities are paying for their sanitation services and that the informal local private sector when
trained is able to deliver quality services. The Bank experience learned from these programs have been
incorporated in the design of the project and is reflected in the size and the scope of the peri-urban
sanitation component.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$542 million; ERR = 32 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis of the project is based on simulating a with and without scenario and estimating the
costs and benefits deriving from each of the project components. The analysis estimates the real value of
the costs and benefits produced by the project while taking into account (i) the price consumers are willing
to pay for water (as expressed in the WTP study); (ii) the improvements in O&M costs under the project;
and (iii) the value of health benefits arising from the expansion and improvement of the system. Detailed
calculations and explanations are in Annex 4. The analysis is constructed separately for each of the main
physical components and aggregated. The tables below correspond to the aggregated version. A risk
analysis was performed on the NPV and the IRR of the project, using Monte-Carlo simulations.
Summary of the Cost-Benefit Analysis (US$ million):
NPV of Incremental Costs @ 10%  $260.58
NPV of Incremental Benefits @ 10%  $803.06
NPV of NET Benefits @ 10%     $542.48
IRR                              32%
In addition, a qualitative assessment of the costs and benefits of the activities around the Guiers Lake has
been performed and is presented as an Appendix to Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A major objective of the LTP, which is consistent with the ongoing WSP, is to achieve and maintain
financial equilibrium within an agreed timeframe The sector should have the capacity to meet all of its
financial obligations, including debt service payments, counterpart funds on investments, investments
financed out of its own resources, payment of all duties, taxes and suppliers. The target year for financial
equilibrium under the ongoing WSP is 2003 and, in spite of a 12-month implementation delay, it will still
- 19 -



be met.
Implementation of the LTP will impose an additional financial burden on the sector. As the GOS and
donors have agreed to leave unchanged the target year of 2003 for reaching financial equilibrium, the
annual tariff adjustments for the period from 2000 through 2003 will be 3.9 percent. Even though the
latter increases are higher than previous annual increases of 2.5 to 3.0 percent for the period 1995 through
1999, this level of increase is still considered socially and politically acceptable.
Onlending Arrangements: Under the proposed project, the treatment plant and pumping station in Keur
Momarr Sarr (KMS) would be entirely financed through private sources raised by the private contracto,r
whereas the 70 km water pipe from KMS to Gueoul would be financed through the IDA credit passed on
by the GOS to the sector in the form of equity. The remainder of the IDA contribution to the urban water
components will be provided by the Government to SONES in the following manner 45 percent would be
onlent to SONES at terms similar to IBRD (20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an annual interest rate
of 5.4 percent), and the remaining 55 percent would be provided in the form of equity. SONES would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The IDA credit financing the sanitation component would be made
available to ONAS in the form of a grant.
Fiscal lmpact:
Subsidies. Budget subsidies have been eliminated in the urban water supply subsector. The cash-flow
shortfall generated before 2003 is financed through a line of credit from a commercial bank. Operating
subsidies for ONAS will be eliminated under the project. In addition, the incremental costs associated with
the water resources management component will be recovered through the water abstraction tax. The only
remaining subsidies will be those associated with sanitation investments.
Taxes. Water sales are subject to the normal VAT rate of 18 percent, except for the social tranche tariff,
which will benefit from a zero VAT rate. Incremental water sales under the project will thus generate
CFAF 11 billion (US$17 million equivalent) in incremental taxes over the project period (2001-2007). The
net income of all companies operating in the sector (including SONES and SDE) is subject to the 35
percent corporate income tax.
Counterpart Funding. Counterpart funds will be provided by the Govermment, SONES and beneficiaries
of the peri-urban sanitation component. The Government will contribute US$2.5 million to finance the
sewerage and drainage component and the water resources management component. Beneficiaries will
contribute US$8.7 million to the peri-urban sanitation component. SONES will directly contribute US$1.6
million.
3. Technical:
Contrary to wastewater treatment in waste stabilization ponds where criteria are well established, fecal
sludge management has received little attention. Designing appropriate septage treatment facilities will be
constrained by limited experience and the lack of well-tested design parameters as few countries have
embarked on the construction and operation of septage treatment facilities in the world and particularly in
Africa. One of the issues is the extremely diversified quality of septage, which depends on origin,
solids-liquid separation and sludge thickening, and ammonia toxicity to algae. Constructing smaller
facilities (as opposed to a one-time large facility) represents a more appropriate approach since it allows
for leaming in an incremental way and adapting designs over time.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
-20 -



Oversight: Ministry of Hydraulics (MH). Day-to-day Coordination: Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Execution of Components/Activities: Department of Water Works and Sanitation (MH-DHA); National
Water Company of Senegal (SONES); National Office of Urban Sanitation (ONAS); Water Resources
Management and Planning Unit (MH-SGPRE); Agency for the Execution of Works in the Public Interest
(AGETIP).
b. Project management:
In general, the MHI-DHA (and in particular the PCU) have demonstrated their financial and project
management capacity, on the occasion of the project preparation as well as the ongoing Water Sector
Project. In comparison with other Government Ministries in Senegal, it is relatively well equipped and has
competent staffs, who have been on their jobs for several years. Under the proposed project, additional
institutional strengthening will take place for the PCU, SGPRE, SONES and ONAS, including: (i)
recruitment and training of new staff, (ii) purchase of office equipment, and to a limited extent, vehicles;
and (iii) studies and technical assistance of various types, such as procurement and contract and financial
management. Based on the procurement and financial management assessments carried out during project
preparation, an action plan was agreed. It addresses areas where existing structures still need to be
strengthened to meet performance criteria for PMR-based disbursement. The action plan includes: (ak
the area of financial management: (i) the issuance of a Procedures Manual and the selection of an auditor
before credit effectiveness; (ii) the installation of a management and accounting computerized system,
including contract management; and (iii) the training of project staff for using the new procedures; and (b)
in the area of procurement and contract mananement: (i) a procurement planning and contract management
system, integrated into the above-mentioned financial management system; (ii) a section on procurement in
the Procedures Manual; (iii) the recraitment of a firm to provide technical assistance in the area of
Procurement during the first two years of the project for developing the capacity to assist project
components and exercise quality control and mandatory reviews of all procurement documents; (iv) the
selection of a technical auditor before credit effectiveness; (v) the reorganization of the filing of
procurement-related documents; and (vi) procurement training sessions before credit effectiveness.
The capacity of ONAS will be a constraining factor. Arrangements to strengthen this entity on technical
and financial areas are paramount to the success of the project. ONAS will also establish, within its
Service d'Assainissement Autonome, a team in charge with implementing the peri-urban sanitation
component. This team will be strengthened by a sanitary engineer, a community development specialist,
two field technicians and support staff, to be recruited no later than the date of credit effectiveness. The
unit will also be reinforced during the first two years of the project by a technical adviser, and over the life
of the project, by consultants and consulting firms for specific issues (support to the private sector, IEC,
technologies, etc.). Staff will benefit from adequate training.
5. Social:
The project will not have any significant social adverse impact. It will bring substantial improvements
to the living conditions of more than 1,000,000 people, particularly in peri-urban areas, which have
been deprived of basic water and sanitation services. The demand-driven approach followed by the
project should reinforce community-based organizations. The project does not entail resettlement.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: A (Full Assessment)
A draft environmental Assessment (EA) was completed in December 1998. A final version was submitted
to IDA in May 1999, taking into account the result of public hearings and updated information. The EA
identified three major project impacts on the environment:
*   Positive impacts on underground water resources with a reduction of exploitation on the most
- 21 -



the fragile among them;
*  The withdrawal of water from the Guiers Lake, to supply Dakar with fresh water, will require
a reorganization of the management of the lake that takes into account other water uses, as well
as social and environmental issues, and ensures a rigorous protection of the lake's water
resources;
*   Consequent improvements of conditions of hygiene and health of populations in the greater
Dakar area, as a result of better access to water and sanitation services and hygiene education.
An environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared and discussed with GOS during appraisal to deal
with adverse environmental impacts, including mitigation, monitoring and capacity building measures, in
conformity with World Bank safeguard policies. The EMP includes measures to protect populations living
around the Guiers Lake, as well as measures to ensure that management of the lake does not negatively
impact on development opportunities elsewhere in the Senegal River delta. To ensure compliance with IDA
safeguards, the project includes: (i) preparing an environmental assessment of the Lake Management
Action Plan; (ii) strengthening capacities within the Ministry of Environment to review and monitor
environmental issues, with an emphasis on the water sector; (iii) funding studies to rehabilitate the Reserve
du Ndiael; and (iv) preparing an environmental management plan of the baie de Hann, focusing on the
cleanup of industrial pollution.
The draft Project and EMP features were presented to the populations concerned and their opinions were
polled during public hearings held from February 24 to March 2, 1999 in Guediawaye, Parcelles Assainies
and Pikine for the region of Dakar; in Gu6oul, Ross-Bethio, Richard Toll, Mbane; and in Keur Momar Sarr
for the Guiers Lake and its periphery. Approximately 50 participants attended each hearing. The final
version of the EMP is dated July 1999. Bank environmental and social staff have reviewed this EMP in the
field and concluded that it complies with the Bank's safeguard policies. EA and EMP reports have been
disclosed in the country and deposited in the Infoshop, and the Environmental Assessment Executive
Summary was transmitted to the Board on July 17, 2000.
The Environmental Mitigation Monitoring Committee will monitor implementation of the EMP as well as
the perfonnance of the private sector operator. The Committee will replace the Cellule de Suivi des
Impacts Environnementaux of the WSP, adding a representative from the Department of the Environment,
from the Eaux et Forets and from the private sector operator to its composition. The Committee will report
to the Department of Environment on EMP implementation and on private sector performance on a
quarterly basis. Reporting on the EMP will be based on the indicators for the EMP component defined in
Annex 1.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation of the project has been participatory from the outset. Staff of the responsible public agencies
have benefited from the assistance of local NGOs involved in different water and sanitation projects
targeted to low-income communities. This approach has developed commitment and ownership, and
improved institutional sustainability as well as management capacity of those in charge of implementation
and operation.
A participatory approach was used throughout the design process, from identification to appraisal,
involving stakeholder consulations in order to: (i) review infornation gathered, the methodological
framework, problems and constraints identified; (ii) review and assess intermediate study results and
- 22 -



proposals, discuss and validate options on organizational structure and investment choices, control, and
coordination patterns, and prioritize recommendations; and (iii) review and adopt detailed organizational
arrangements and agree on further steps and assigned responsibilities.
Several focus group meetings were organized with target beneficiary communities and municipal
governments, and SEPO workshops with groups of small-scale private service providers. A stakeholders
workshop launching the process of defining a strategy for improved WSS services in peri-urban areas took
place during the pre-appraisal mission. Demand for improved water and sanitation services was elicited
from beneficiary assessments, which were used to validate cost recovery policies, particularly in regard to
beneficiaries' contribution to the cost of sanitation facilities.
NGOs, CBOs, communities and beneficiaries will participate throughout the subproject cycle to
execute the peri-urban sanitation component under a demand-driven approach. Beneficiary assessment
and sanitation surveys will be conducted annually throughout the project period. A participatory M&E
process will be used to ensure that all stakeholders are involved. Their input will be used to guide the
project, so that any social issues that may arise can be addressed quickly.
Women play a dominant role in household water supply and sanitation. The project will build on
experience accumulated in Senegal to promote the active involvement of women in local project
committees, in access to employment opportunities through studies, intennediation activities,
construction and management of facilities and in the participatory M&E process. Training will be
given, when needed, to enable all community members to effectively undertake their respective roles.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders include: National Government (DHA), water and sanitation utilities (ONAS,
SDE, SONES), local Government (Municipalities and Quartiers), NGOs (both national and local),
other ESAs, the private sector and other Government Ministries (Health, Education, Finance) and Local
Government. Representatives from these groups will be involved through a steering committee in the
participatory M&E process during implementation, so that their collaboration will continue through all
phases of the project.  Most of these stakeholders will also play important roles in project
implementation and operation.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project and of the water and sanitation services is contingent on (i) continued
satisfactory performance by the private operator; (ii) the willingness of communities and beneficiaries to
take responsibility for direct or delegated management of sanitation facilities; and (iii) the willingness of
beneficiaries to pay for improved water and sanitation services. The four-year experience in implementing
the WSP provides substantial evidence that the implication of the private operator enabled improvement of
water services delivery and that the tariff policy consisting of periodic and limited increases of the water
rates is socially acceptable. The Government's commitment to sectoral reforms, and particularly towards
expanding the role of the private sector in financing investments and in operating and maintaining
sanitation infrastructure, is a key factor of sustainability.
- 23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
The GOS demonstrates insufficient active  M         Private operator (SDE) continues to perform
support and commitmnent to the water                well.
sector reform, including PPI.                       Post-DBF transaction workshops will be held
with MH, SONES and SDE to resolve possible
implementation issues.
No agreement is reached on amendment to    M        Tecbnical support will be provided to GOS
current lease contract.                             during contractual renegotiation after 5 years of
lease contract.
Inadequate use of sanitation services by  M         Local NGOs and community-based
households and communmities.                        organizations will train and support
communities and households.
From Components to Outputs
The water quality and quantity in the      M        Efficient planning and implementation of the
Guiers Lake is inadequate.                          Action Plan is proposed for integrated lake
management.
Winning bidder of the DBF is unable to     M        Closing of the deal is a condition of
close the deal.                                     effectiveness.
Actual operating costs of the KMS water    M        6-month testing period will be applied to check
treatment plant are higher than planned.            accuracy of operating cost estimates, with
penalties attached in case of variance from
estimates.
Annual tariff adjustments are delayed or   S        Tariff adjustment policy is a contractual
not applied and sector financial                    obligation under the DCA. Autonomy of
equilibrium is put in jeopardy.                     financial management of the sector will be
enhanced through creation of a regulatory
agency under LTP. The financing arrangements
(debt and equity) have been designed to ensure
that annual tariff adjustments are socially
acceptable.
Payment of water bills by Government,     M         Measures developed under the Water Sector
Municipalities and Universities is late or          Project will continue to be applied: (i) close
not made.                                           monitoring of water consumption, (ii)
rehabilitation of GOS-owned facilities, and (iii)
cut-off policy.
ONAS is unable to effectively implement,   S        ONAS' capacities are being strengthened under
manage and monitor large investment                 the WSP. ONAS will contract out operating
projects                                            and maintenance responsibilities. The
institutional setting ofthe sanitation sector will
be fully reviewed and reformed as needed before
the end of 2002.
- 24 -



There is no effective and sustained         M         Local NGOs will support communities and
demand for sanitation services by                     households in expressing their demand and
households and communities.                           financial arrangements provided by the project
will ease access.
There is no effective capacity of           M         AGETIP is a competent contract delegating
community-based organizations or SMEs                 agency with a large experience of dealing with
to carry out works or to provide services             small scale enterprises; tailored capacity
in water supply and sanitation.                       building activities aimed at developing their
management and skills.
Weak commitment of GOS towards              N         Most of stakeholders and water users, including
regulatory and cost recovery policies to             the private sector are committed to reforms.
improve water resources management.
Lack of political willingness to implement  M         The EMP results from a participatory process
the Environmental Management Plan.                    and adequate resources are available for
implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
NA
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
*   The Borrower has opened the Project Account and has made the initial deposit of CFAF 200 million;
-   The On-lending Agreement with SONES has been executed;
*   The Project Implementation Manual and the Procedures Manual for the peri-urban sanitation
component have been adopted;
3   The DBF contract has been executed and has become effective;
-   The Borrower has entered into the Implementation Agreement with ONAS;
-   ONAS has set up a satisfactory financial management system and has completed the reorganization of
its accounting and financial department;
*   ONAS has entered into a Subsidiary Administration Agreement with AGETIP for implementing the
peri-urban sanitation component and the agreement has become effective;
* The PCU has set up a satisfactory financial management system and has recruiteda financial
management specialist.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Accounts/Audits:
(i) Borrower to have the Project accounts, the Special Account and SOE expenditures audited
annually;
(ii) ONAS to have its accounts, financial statements and Special Account audited annually;
(iii) ONAS to maintain an inventory of sewerage assets and to prepare three-year equipment
replacement programs;
(iv) SONES to have its accounts, financial statements and Special Account audited annually;
(v) AGETIP to maintain records and accounts in respect of the peri-urban sanitation component;
(vi) Borrower, SONES and ONAS to carry out the action plan to improve the project's financial
- 25 -



management system and facilitate preparation of Project management reports that are acceptable to
IDA.
Financial Performnance/Revenue Generation:
(i) The integrated water and sanitation tariffstnicture is implemented by December 31, 2001;
(ii) Borrower to approve water tariff revisions to maintain the water sector's financial equilibrium from
2003 onwards;
(iii)Borrower to approve revisions of the sewerage surcharge to cover ONAS' cash operating
expenditures and equipment replacement costs from 2003 onwards.
Flow and Use of Project Funds:
(i) Borrower, SONES, ONAS and AGETIP to prepare annual work programs, including a proposed
budget and financing plan for the forthcoming fiscal year;
(ii) Financing of individual sanitation subprojects not to exceed US$50,000, except for subprojects for
the Camberene area.
Counterpart Funding:
(i) Borrower to replenish the Project Account to provide its counterpart contribution;
(ii) Beneficiaries of sanitation subprojects to provide no less than 10 percent of their estimated costs in
cash and/or in kind.
Environmental Covenants:
(i) Borrower to take all necessary measures to implement the Environmental Management Plan;
(ii) The annual work plan and budget to include all activities to mitigate and compensate for the
enviromnental impact identified in the EIA;
(iii) Borrower to furnish IDA, by December 31, 2002, the environmental assessment of the Lake
Management Plan.
Monitoring, Review andReporting:
(i) Borrower to quarterly report on the status of monitoring indicators;
(ii) MEH, SONES, ONAS and AGETIP to semi-annually report on the progress of the Project,
including regular feedback from beneficiaries of sanitation subprojects;
(iii) MEH and AGETIP to semi-annually review with IDA the procurement activities;
(iv) Borrower, SONES and ONAS, jointly with IDA, to annually review project implementation and to
carry out recommendations arising out of reviews;
(v) Borrower to carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the Project, no later than 30 months
after the effective date of the Development Credit Agreement.
Sectoral Policy/Regulatory/Institutional Action: Borrower to carry out a study on the institutional
evolution of ONAS and the sanitation subsector by December 31, 2002.
The following were conditions of Negotiations
*  Transmission to IDA of the letter from OMVS authorizing the Government of Senegal to abstract
additional resources from the Guiers Lake;
*  Award of the DBF;
*   Submission to IDA of a draft Letter of Sector Policy;
*  Transmission to IDA of a revised tariff structure;
*   Selection of AGETIP as contracting agency for the implementation of the peri-urban sanitation
- 26 -



component.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
LI 2. The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
t Richard Verspyck                 Letitia A. Obecg J                  M. Mclntire
Team Leader                    Sector Manager                  Country Director
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Irncreased availability and  1. 85 percent of urban  Annual Sector Reports   Favorable macroeconomic
sustainability of water and    population having access to                       conditions.
sarnitation services in urban,  water supply services by 2005.
peri-urban and small town    2. Increase in coverage for
areas.                     sanitation services: +10
percentage points in Dakar
and other target areas.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. Sustainable improvements  1. Additional number of  Semi-annual progress reports Political, social and economic
in the delivery of water and   people receiving (by 2006):   by SONES, ONAS and  stability continues.
sanitation services in unserved   * water services: 800,000  AGETIP
and low-income areas of         in Dakar and 200,000 in Quarterly monitoring &
Dakar and secondary cities.    secondary centers      evaluation reports
*  sewerage services:   Beneficiary assessments
90,000 in Dakar and
50,000 in secondary
centers
*  on-site sanitation
services: 400,000 in
peri-urban areas.
2. Additional volume of    Semi-annual progress report
sewage collected & treated in  by ONAS
project areas (+10,000 m3/d);
3. Cash operating         Audit reports for ONAS
expenditures and equipment
replacement costs of ONAS
(sewerage services only)
covered by its operating
revenues by the end of 2003;
4. Urban Water Supply     Audit reports for SONES and
subsector remaining in     SDE
financial equilibrium from
2003 onwards;
5. A management. body for  Records of meetings and
the Guiers Lake established   reports by SGPRE
and functioning by end 2002;
6. Lake Management Plan    Records of meetings and
implemented by end 2002    reports by SGPRE
after completion of the
relevant environmental
assessment.
- 28 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. Reliability, quality, quantity 1. 200 new public standpipes  Supervision reports  Water sector reform
and coverage of water supply  by 2006;                Progress reports           implemented in 1995 still in
services improved in unserved 2. 31,000 new social    Site surveys               place.
and low income areas of    connections in Dakar       Quick WTP assessments, as a
Dakar.                     constructed by 2006;       monitoring tool (as stipulated
3. 98 percent water samples  in lease contract, to be carried
complying with WHO         out ammally by SDE)
guidelines by 2006;        Water quality reports
4. 24-hour water supply in
Greater Dakar area by 2006.
2. Urban sanitation coverage  1. 8,800 new social sewerage Supervision reports    Adequate use of sanitation
increased in low income areas. connections in Dakarby 2006; Progress reports     services by households and
2. 60,000 on-site facilities    Site sutveys          commuunities.
and 160 semi-collective    Beneficiary assessments
systems constmcted in
peri-urban areas by 2006;
3. 20,000 households given
hygiene & sanitation
education.
3. Water & sanitation services 1. 17,000 new social water   Supervision reports
and coverage improved in    connections by 2006;      Progress reports
secondary centers.         2. 10 additional water     Site surveys
systems transferred to the  Beneficiary assessments
lease perimeter by 2006;
3. 5,000 new social sewerage
connections by 2006.
4. Water resource          1. Billing rate for the water   Supervision reports    SGPRE functioning as
management improved.       abstraction tax to reach 50    Progress reports        efficient authority for
percent by end 2003 and 90                            monitoring water resources
percent by end 2006;
2. Collection rate for the water
abstraction tax to reach 70
percent by end 2006;
3. Guiers Lake's water quality
& quantity monitored &
reported quarterly;
4. Groundwater abstraction in
Cap Vert reduced by 23,000
m3/d by 2004;
5. Groundwater abstraction
from Northern littoral aquifer
reduced to 35,000 m3/d, 10
months a year from 2005.
- 29 -



5. Environmental safeguards  1. The environmental.   Records of meetings        Equitable resolution of
addressed                 mitigation monitoring      Supervision reports        conflicts between water users
committee set up & quarterly  Study reports          and Lake users.
meetings held.
2. EIA capacity of the ME
strengthened to enable
efficienit environmental
monitoring of project.
3. Completion of the Ndiael
study by end 2003;
4. Completion of the study on
rehabilitation of Baie de Hann
by end 2003.
6. Capacity building and
institutional development
6.1 MH, SGPRE, SONES,   1. Comite Technique de       Records of meetings
ONAS                      I"Eau (CTE) and Conseil    Progress reports
Sup&rieur de l'Eau (CSE)    Audit reports
operational & 4 meetings held
per year,
2. SGPRE strengthened &
transformed into a Directorate
of Water Resource (or similar)
with financial resources
obtained from proceeds of the
water abstraction tax for
carrying out its monitoring,
control and regulation
missions;
3. Improved operational
performance in ONAS: labor
productivity (2 employees per
1,000 sewerage connections),
labor costs not exceeding 30%
of operating. costs excluding.
depreciation by 2006;
4. Improved financial
performance, ONAS: working
ratio, debt coverage, liquidity
ratios.
- 30 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
A. Urban water supply -    1. IDA credit             Semi-annual progress reports Adequate quantity and quality
Dakar                     US$62.17 million           by SONES                  of water from Guiers Lake
1. Production and                                    Semni-annual reviews of
transmission facilities                              procurement activities     Effective implementation and
2. Distribution system:                                                        operation of DBF-financed
* Rehabilitation and                                                         facilities
extension of tertiary
distribution network                                                       Timely revisions of water
*  .Rehabilitation and                                                       taniffs
extension of secondary
distribution network and                                                   Timely payments of water
storage capacity                                                          bills by Government agencies,
* Installation of                                                             municipalities.
low-income house
connections and public
standpipes.
B. Urban water supply -    2. IDA credit             Semi-annmal progress reports
Secondary centers (Kaolack, US$4.87 million          by SONES
Saint-Louis, Tambacounda                             Semi-annual reviews of
and 20 semi-urban centers)                           procurement activities
* Rehabilitation &
extension of secondaiy
and tertiary distribution
network;
* Expansion of production
and storage capacity
* Installation of
low-income house
connections and public
standpipes.
- 31 -



C. Sewerage and Drainage  3. IDA credit               Quarterly progress reports by  Effective capacity of ONAS to
1. Improvement of Dakar    US$22.62 million           MEH                        implement, manage and
sewerage system:                                      Semi-anmnal progress reports  monitor large investment
*  Updating of network                              by ONAS                    projects.
mapping                                          Semi-annual reviews of
*  Installation of house                            procurement activities      Timely revisions of sewerage
connections, extension                                                       surcharges.
of sewerage network and
construction of septage
treatment facilities
* Construction of new
outfall
* Rehabilitation of
pumping stations
2. Drainage in Dakar:
construction of drains, holding
basin and a pumping station
in Triangle Sud.
3. Sewerage systems in
secondary centers (Kaolack,
Saint-Louis and Louga) and
Rufisque:
* installation of house
connections and
extension of networks
* rehabilitation of
treatment facilities and
constuction of septage
treatment facilities
D. Peri-urban Sanitation    4. IDA credit             Quarterly progress reports by  Effective and continuous
Subprojects                US$20.28 million           MEH                         demand for improved
* Provision of grants for                           Semi-annual progress reports  sanitation services from
canying out subprojects                          by ONAS and AGETIP         households and communities.
including on-site                                Semi-annual reviews of
sanitation facilities,                           procurement activities      Effective technical and
off-site sanitation                                                          financial capacity of small
systems, school and                                                          enterprises to carry out works
public sanitation                                                            responding to the market
facilities and the                                                           requirements.
extension of Camberene
sewerage network
* Community outreach,
hygiene education and
capacity building
- 32 -



E. Water Resources        5. IDA credit              Quarterly progress reports by  Strong Government
Management                US$4.33million             MEH                       commitment to regulatory and
* Technical assistance to                          Semi-annual reviews of    cost recovery policies.
enhance SGPRE's role                            procurement activities
as regulator and develop
participatory approach
to Guiers Lake
management
* Rehabilitation of the
dykes and gates of the
St. Louis reservoir
* Water supply for
riparians
* Master plan for water
resources management
* Development of MIS for
water quality and
modelization of aquifers
F. Environmental          6. IDA credit              Quarterly progress reports by  Political willingness to
Management Plan           US$1.55 million            MEH                       implement the EMP
* Development and                                  Semi-annual reviews of
implementation of the                           procurement activities
Guiers Lake
Management Plan
(GLMP)
* Preparation of EIA for
the GLMP
* Strengthening capacities
of the ME
* Study of the
rehabilitation of Ndiael
* Feasibility study for the
rehabilitation of Baie de
Hann
- 33 -



G. Institutional         7. IDA credit             Quarterly progress repozts by  Institutions able to retain key
Strengthening & Capacity   US$7.69 miUion          MEH                      persormel
Building                                           Quarterly reports on
* Sector needs assessment,                       monitoring and evaluation
training and
partnerships for building
regulatory capacity
* Development of
performance-based MIS
* Strengthening working
relationships between
SONES, SDE, ONAS
* Development of
planning and
communication
capacities in MEH; &
regulatory fnimework
for water resources
management
* Capacity building for
small contractors,
artisans and
comnmunity-based
organizations
* Capacity building to
monitor and evaluate
health improvements
and economic benefits.
PPF Refinancing          8. IDA Credit
US$1.50 million
Total IDA: US$125.00
milion
- 34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$117.62 million
Urban Water Supply - Dakar
This component aims to improve the reliability, quality, quantity and coverage of water supply services in
unserved and low income areas of Dakar through: (i) increasing production capacity to eventually meet the
water demand; (ii) increasing the number of connections; (ii) restructuring and balancing Dakar's water
distribution network to enable it to handle the increased volumes; and (iii) increasing water storage
capacity.
The component consists of. (i) a water treatment plant at Keur Momar Sarr (65,000 m3/d, expandable to
135,000 m3/d) and a pumping station built under DBF arrangements; (ii)a new transmission main (70 km,
diameter 1200mm) linking the treatment plant to the existing transmission line in Gueoul; (iii) renewal and
extension of secondary distribution network and storage capacity; (iv) extension of tertiary distribution
network; and (v) installation of low-income house connections and public standpipes A pilot project will
also be included to demonstrate potential demand reduction and conservation with assistance from
UNCHS-HABITAT
Project Component 2 - US$11.69 million
Urban Water Supply- Secondary centers
The secondary centers component includes operations to expand and reinforce the drinking water networks
in three regional capitals (Kaolack, Saint-Louis and Tambacounda -- part of the service area of the current
lease) and to expand water services in 20 semi-urban centers, which will be eventually transferred to SDE.
The detailed items are: (i) rehabilitation and extension of secondary and tertiary distribution networks; (ii)
expansion of production and storage capacity; and (iii) installation of connections and public standpipes.
Project Component 3 - USS 70.17 million
Sewerage and Drainage
This component will (i) enable a more effective usage of the existing sewer networks by increasing the
number of connected households in Dakar and the secondary citieE (ii) improve demand management;
reduce waste water and septage pollution; and (iii) and limit severity and duration of flooding in some in
downtown Dakar.
The sewerage component in Dakar includes: (i) updating of the mapping of the sewerage network; (ii)
constructing 8,800 connections on the existing network, 30,000 linear meters of network extensions and
septage collection facilities connected to the sewer networks; (iii) providing a new outfall atCamberene
treatment plant to limit treated waste water discharge in the vicinity of the village of Camberene; and (iv)
rehabilitation of three pumping stations on the existing network.
The stormwater drainage component in Dakar includes the drainage infrastructure for Triangle Sud
through the construction of 3,550 linear meters of drains, a holding basin and a pumping station.
The sewerage component in Secondary Centers includes: (i) construction of 5,000 connections and
15,000 linear meters of network extensions to allow connections in St. Louis, Louga, and Kaolack; and (ii)
rehabilitation of wastewater stabilization facilities and treatment plants in St. Louis, Louga and Kaolack.
- 35 -



In addition to the sewerage component, the project will finance the construction of a septage treatment
facility in each of the above mentioned towns.
Project Component 4 - US$29.28 million
Peri-urban Sanitation
This component will target peri-urban and low-income setdements in order to improve the sanitary
conditions of the households. This component will include an investment program and a capacity building
and demand generation program.
The investment program will target construction of new facilities and rehabilitation of existing ones for
households (on the plots), clusters of households (semi-collective), the public (elementary schools, markets
and mini-bus and taxi stations) and decentralized septage treatment facilities. It will include:  (i)
construction and/or rehabilitation of about 60,000 on-site sanitation facilities; (ii) construction of about 160
decentralized off-site sanitation systems; (iii) construction of sewer networks in Camberene; (iv)
construction of four septage treatment facilities; and (v) construction of 70 school sanitation blocks and IO
public sanitation facilities.
The capacity building and demand generation program will help (i) increase demand for improved
sanitation by developing marketing, infornation and communication activities; (ii) increase entrepreneurial,
managerial and technical capacity for artisans and small scale private sector to construct and maintain
sanitation facilities; (iii) increase ONAS' capacity to plan, implement, supervise and monitor demand based
on-site and decentralized sanitation programs; (iv) expand the spectrum of sanitation facilities and reduce
costs to make them affordable to low-income households; and (v) develop capacity of local NGOs and
community-based organizations for planning, financing and managing demand-based and participatory
sanitation programs.
Project Component 5 - US$8.57 million
Water Resources Management (WRM)
The long-term water supply to Dakar depends heavily on the Guiers Lake and hence the importance of its
efficient management. This component, a follow up of actions initiated in the ongoing WSP, includes the
following: (i) technical assistance to improve SGPRE's role as regulator and to strengthen its powers to
enforce water protection measures of the lake through participatory approaches with all stakeholders,
including surrounding communities using the water for multiple purposes (irrigation, farming, industry,
drinking); (ii) development of an Action Plan for integrated management, including promoting integrated
WRM and environmental mitigation measures (including pollution control, surface water protection); (iii)
rehabilitation of the dikes and gates which regulate the flow in the St. Louis reservoir; (iv) construction of
dams in small catchment areas in various regions to provide surface water conservation in the local
conununities acting as supplementary water resources for agriculture, aqua-culture; and (v) development of
an MIS for water quality monitoring and hydrogeological assessment of the underground water of the
Maestrichian aquifer.
Project Component 6 - US$1.55 million
Environmental Management Plan
The component is aimed at incorporating environmental concerns in the project both to increase quality,
and to follow safeguard policies and national regulations.
It consists of the following components: (i) setting up of an Environmental Mitigation Committee; (ii)
setting up of a Lake Management Commission; (iii) development of a Lake Management Plan; (iv)
rehabilitation of ecological functions in and around the Ndiael; (v) feasibility study for the rehabilitation of
the Baie de Hann; and (vi) works' procedures.
- 36 -



Project Component 7 - US$8.00 million
Institutional Strengthening & Capacity Building
This component aims at (i) increasing the efficiency of public entities involved in the water and sewerage
sector (MEH, SONES and ONAS) by strengthening their capacity for planning and management; (ii)
restructuring the sector's institutional and regulatory framework; and (iii) developing/strengthening the
capacity of small private and community enterprises to respond to the demand for services in urban and
peri-urban areas.
It consists of the following: (i) needs assessment of the sector, followed by training to build regulatory
capacity, and exchange of experience and partnership with similar institutions, (ii) development of
performance-based decision support systems and databases on water and sanitation, (iii) measures to
strengthen working relationships between SONES, SDE, ONAS and AGETIP; (iv) strengthening the
capacity of MEH in planning and communication; (v) developing regulatory framework for water resources
management; (vi) capacity building for small and community enterprises and artisans in water and
sanitation; and (vii) capacity building for the Ministry of Health and pertinent infrastructure agencies in
three complementary areas, each related tocoordinated water supply, sanitation, and drainage activities,
i.e.: to implement multi-sectomal infrastructure improvements; to monitor related health improvements; and
to evaluate additional economic benefits,
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
A. UrbanWater Supply                                      30.57         71.32        101.89
B. Urban Water Supply - Secondary Centers                  2.98          6.96          9.94
C. Sewerage and Dminage                                   20.79         37.49         58.28
D. Pen-urban Sanitation                                    7.23         16.87         24.10
E. Water Resources Management                              2.26          5.28          7.54
F. Environmental Management Plan                           0.15          1.34          1.49
G. institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building           2.23          5.27          7.50
H. PPF Refinancing                                          0.30         1.20          1.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       66.51        145.73        212.24
Physical Contingencies                                     6.74        14.34         21.08
Price Contingencies                                       6.28          8.83         15.11
Total Project Costs              79.53       168.90        248.43
Total Financing Required              79.53        168.90        248.43
Goods                                                        1.65           4.47         6.12
Works                                                       51.78         107.68        159.46
Subprojects                                                  6.63          15.47        22.10
Consulting Services                                          4.44          12.56         17.00
Training /Inst. Strengthening                                1.47           3.80         5.27
Operating costs                                              0.24           0.55          0.79
PPF refinancing                                              0.30           1.20          1.50
Physical contingencies                                       6.74          14.34        21.08
Price contingencies                                          6.28           8.83         15.11
Total Project Costs     79.53        168.90        248.43
Total Financing Required     79.53         168.90        248.43
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 248.43 (US$n). 'Iberefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 5032% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 38 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
General Introduction
1.    The Long Tenn Water Supply Project's objective is to obtain a sustainable improvement in the
provision of water and sanitation services in unserved and low-income areas of Dakar and secondary cities.
The project consists of five main components: (i) urban water supply - Dakar area US$113 million); (ii)
urban water supply - secondary centers US$12.6 million); (iii) urban and peri-urban sanitation US$99.5
million); (iv) water resources management and environmental management US$10.1 million); and (v)
institutional strengthening and capacity building US$8.1 million).
2.   The project will benefit the population of Dakar and the secondary centers mentioned above, and
more specifically improve the water and sanitation services of the area's population through: (a) increasing
the number of water and sanitation connections for low income households; (b) reducing UFW in the served
areas; (c) increasing the number of water standpoints; (d) developing an on-site sanitation program in areas
not covered by the sewerage system; and (e) improving the water resources management of the lac de
Guiers.
3.     More particularly the project will rehabilitate and extend water supply networks and sewerage
networks, implement 48,000 social water connections and about 14,000 sewerage connections, and provide
on-site sanitation for about 400,000 inhabitants. The total direct beneficiaries of the project consist of the
residents of the Dakar area and secondary centers (2.7 million people), and some of the communities
situated around the Lac de Guiers.
4.      A quantitative analysis of the costs and benefits of the physical parts of the project has been
constructed. It includes separate calculations for each of the physical investment components of the
project. In addition, a qualitative assessment of risks, costs, and benefits of interventions around the Lac de
Guiers, appear in the Appendix. The overall project has a 32 percent ERR; the ERR of the water supply
component in Dakar and Secondary centers are 32 percent; and that of the sewerage and sanitation
component is 34 percent. The Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) of the water supply system, as expressed
in the average incremental cost (AIC) is estimated at about 0.50 US$/M3. The ERR figures have been
calculated on the basis of the following benefits: (i) incremental amount of water and sanitation supplied;
(ii) cost savings as a consequence of improving the system; and (iii) health benefits related to the expansion
and improvement of the network.
5.   Average consumption of water per person in urban areas is estimated to be 54 liters per day and the
average household's size is 8.4 people (1). Given the high demand for water in the neighborhoods that will
be supplied through the project, it is estimated that the network will remain fully utilized throughout its
thirty-year life. It is estimated that the leakage of the system (UFW) will be reduced from 27% currently,
to a level of 15% by 2003 as a part of a contractual obligation between the private operator (SdE) and the
government.
6.      The total cost of the project has been estimated in constant 1999 prices including physical
contingencies but excluding taxes, interest for financing the project, and a depreciation allowance. The
direct foreign component of the project is estimated at 68 percent of the total cost. The estimation of these
costs was made with reference to the below fundamental considerations:
- 39 -



(i) The current price of foreign exchange in Senegal does not reflect its true value. Even though
trade liberalization has been introduced, Senegal's current trade policy sfill distorts the foreign
exchange market through tariffs (the current average tariff rate is 15%). The equilibrium price of
foreign exchange is estimated to have a 14% premium (a detailed calculation appears in the project
files).
(ii) Adjusting for the shadow labor rate resulted in no change since most of the labor to be
employed under the current project would already be applied in the sector. It is estimated that the
implementation of the current project will not require a major increase in staff.
(iii) The cost benefit analysis calculations take into account the total cost of the project (including
cofinancing) as a measure of the investment needed to produce the incremental amounts of water.
Water deriving from the DBF is treated as a cost for which the project (or rather SONES) pays for
on a per unit of consumption basis.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
7.     A summary of the economic cost-benefit flows of the project is presented in the following tables.
The analysis is performed on a with-and-without basis, for which the net incremental benefits are
calculated. Each component's ERR have been calculated as well. With a discount rate of 10 percent and a
30 year project life, the analysis leads to a global net NPV of US$ 554 million, while the ERR is 32
percent. NPV and ERRs per component are summarized below.
Summary of the Project's Cost Benefit Analysis (US$ million):
NPV of Incemental Costs ~ 10%   $260.58
NPV of Incremental Benefits @ 10%  $803.06
NPV of NET Benefits @ 10%       $542.48
IRR                                32%
Summary of the Water Supply Component Cost Benefit Analysis (US$ million):
NPV of Incremental Costs @ 10%   $181.91
NPV of Incremental Benefits @ 10% $545.86
NPV of NET Benefits @ 10%   $363.96
IRR                            32%
Summary of the Sanitation and Sewerage Component Cost Benefit Analysis (US$ million):
NPV of Incremental Costs @ 10%  $78.68
NPV of Incremental Benefis @ 10%  $257.19
NPV of NET Benefits @ 10%       $178.52
IRR .4%
Table 4.1: Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Project's (US$ million in 1999 prices):
- 40 -



2000         17.18           6.55        23.74        0.02                    0.02           (23.72)
2001         40.77           9.33        50.10        5.40       5.40        10.80            (39.30)
2002         40.77         26.10         66.88        9.30      10.69        19.99           (48.89)
2003         17.42         35.81         53.23       17.26      16.06       33.32             (19.91)
2004         18.00         27.87         45.87       29.66      23.41       53.07              7.20
2005         20.77          10.48        31.25       53.00      29.70       82.71             51.45
2010          7.92          (0.41)        7.51       72.59      34.76      107.35             99.84
2015         14.41          (0.46)       13.95       97.79      40.84      138.64            124.68
2020         22.77          (0.50)       22.27      129.40      48.09      177.49            155.22
2025         30.04          (0.55)       29.49      158.13      55.22      213.35            183.86
2030         33.22          (0.61)       32.61      174.58      60.95      235.54            202.93
Table 4.2: Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Water Supply Component of the Project's (US$ million in
1999 prices):
Costs
Investment Costs (with project)
Dakar                         0.96   2.89    2.89   0.96    0.96   0.96
Production                   10.43  31.29   31.29  10.43   10.43  10.43
Secondary Centers             0. 33   0.99    0.99   0,33    0.33   0.33
Studies and Supervision       0.07   0.22    0.22  007    0.07   0.07
From Other Components         5.89   5.89    5.89   5,89    5.89   5.89
Investment Costs (without project)    0.50   0.50    0.50   0.50    0.50   0.50   0.50  0.50    0.50    0.50    0 50
Total with the Project       17.68  41.27   41.27  17.68   17.68  17.68    -        -       -       -       -
Total Without the Project     0.50   0.50    0.50   0.50    0.50   0 50   0.50     0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50
Incremental Investment Costs  17.18  40Q77   40Q77  17.18   17.18  17.18  (0Q50)   (0.50)  (0.50)  (0.50)  (0.50)
O&M Costs
With the Project             39.73  40.60   42.01  41.76   42.80  42.53  51.45    62.32   75.81   89.07   98.96
Without the Project          39.73  40.60   42.01  41.52   41.98  38.94  43.03    47.42   52.54   58.53   65.24
Incremental O&M                    -          -     0.24   oQ82   359   8 42    14.91   23 27   30Q54   33.72
.              .    .   ............    ..   .
Benefits
Consumer Payments for Water
With the Project             60Q66  62.75   65.66  66.33   69.65  74.19  99.85   131.82  172.06  211.75  241.53
Without the Project          60.66  62.75   65.66  65.57   67.09  62.94  73 36    84.92   98.85  115.67  135 44
Incremental Payments           -      -       .     0.76    2.56   11.25  26 49    46.90   73.21   96 09  106.09
Health Expenditure Reduction
| From Malaria                0.02   0.30    0.70   1=      1.40   1.86   2.05     2.27    2.50    2.76    3.05
From Diarrhea                         5.10    8.60  15.50   2570  39.89  44.04    48.63   53.69   59.27   65.44
Total Health Benefts          0.02   5.40    9.30  1650   27.10  41.75  46.10    50.89   56.19   62 04   68.50
- 41 -



Table 4.3: Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Sanitation and Sewerage Component of the Project's (US$
million in 1999 prices):
m=mmmmmmmm=
costs
n nestmnt Costs (with projet)
Dakar                               265   4.54   1329    2261   1480    5.46
Seoorday Cters                       -      -      6.36     6.36    6.55    -
Sbdes atrJ S eiion - Dar            0.47   1.11    2.31     2.00    1.86    0.76
Studies ard Supervision - Secaxdary  -     019    0.56      0656    0.38    -
From Other Carpoerts                4.63   4.63   4.63      4.63    4.63    4.63
nsw nt Costs (wfthout projed)            1.20   1.22    1.25     1.27    1.30    1.32    1.46    1.62    1.78    1.97    2.17
rda viihth Prqt ct                  7.75  1Q047   27.15    3617   2823   1085       -       -       -       -
ToIta uttthe r4ect                  120   1.22    1.25      1.27    1.3    1.32    1.46    1.62    1.78    1.97    2.17
Incenrte InrrrutlCosts              666   9.25  25 90    34.89   2693    9.53   (1.46)  (1.62)  (1.78)  (1.97)  (217)
O&M Costs - Off 1tm
Mth the Prcsct                      08    0Q88    089       1.43    1.46    1.49    1.64    1.81    2.00    2.21    2.44
Wthoc the Prjed                     0.8    0.88   0.89      0.91    0.93   0.95    1.05    1.16    1.28    1.41    1.56
Increfeftd da-she O&M                                       0 -  052    053    054    0659    065    0.72    0.8e    0.88
O&M Costs - On-sit.
Vith the Project                    0.3    042    0.54      0.72    073    075   083       91    1.01    1.11    1.23
Uto the Projeot                     0.3    037    0.37      038   0.3    0.40    0.44    048    053    0.59    0.65
Inrremerta m-site O&M                -     005    0.17      034    034    0.35    03       043    0.47    0.52    0.58
IncrenirtrA O&M Cas s0.08   0.21                            091    0.93    095    1.       1.16    1.28    1.41    1.56
Benefits
Revsnuefrom offste (S9wwa   &urcharp
Vith the Prcojct                    1.77   2.49    3.28     4.14    5.08    544    615    6.96    7.88    8.92   10.10
WIl,mout the pFroect                1.77   2.49   3.10      3.71    4.33    441    487    5.38    5.94    6.56    7.24
IncTmerbl SeweraeRRenes              -      -      0.18     043    0.75    1.0    1.28    18    1.94    236    2.86
Revsnues rorn On-sit Insbtlon
with the Project                    2.15   2.76    3.42     3.78   440    4.65    7.44   11.06   15.73   20.20   2312
I lthout the Pryject                2.15   2.76    3.61     415    4.84    4.15    5.09    6.17    7.53    9.23   11.28
IncrernrntA On-ste Revenues          -      -     (019)   (Q37)  (0Q44)   049    2.3       4.90    8.21   1097   11.85
Healt Expmttur Reduction
From Malaria                               0.3D0   Q        0.70    O 90    1.2    1.3     1.54    1.70    1.87    2.07
Fran DiKdea                                5.10   1Q2      15 30  22.20  26.93   29.73   3283   36.24   40QQ2   44 18
TotW Fbeath Bene6ts                        5.40   1        1602.1   28. 19   31.12   3436   37.94   41.89   46.25
Main Assumptions:
8.       The benefits of the long-term  water supply project are the consumer value of the additional volume
of water, sanitation and health improvements that would have remained umnet without it. The main source
of increased revenues would derive from the improvement and extension of the system. The estimation of
these benefits was made with reference to the below fundamental considerations:
(i) A projection of the additional demand for water and sanitation in the Dakar area was assessed
for the next 30 years. These figures have taken into account major changes in the population's
growth rate, improved water service ratio, and a reduction in UFW. The estimations have been
confirmed by various demand studies conducted recently(2). The total demand for water in the
- 42 -



Dakar area is expected to reach an average of 2.4, 3.4 and 4.6 Amper second in 2010, 2020 and
2030, respectively.
(ii) The value of the water and sanitation services sold would be based on the consumers
willingness to pay (WTP) study (3) which has estimated the price people are willing to pay for
improved services.
(iii) The changes in operation, distribution and maintenance costs (O&M) of the project were
estimated on the basis of previous experience with the managing and operating companies
(SONES, SdE, and ONAS). The underlying assumptions of changes in per unit costs aim to take
into account (i) increasing the water, distribution and treatment capacity substantially and (ii)
extending and improving the quality of the distribution, sanitation and sewerage networks.
(iv) Health benefits deriving from investments in water supply and sanitation projects are, in
general, extremely difficult to measure. Most studies treat the impact of water supply and
sanitation on the reduction of morbidity and mortality (deriving from improvements in drinking
water, human excreta disposal, and the expansion of drainage) as a homogeneous component (4).
The current analysis follows the same methodology, basing its data on a survey of studies and
measuring the project's median reduction on the two most common water-bome diseases in Senegal
- malaria and diarrheal diseases. The project will attempt to measure the incidence of water-borne
diseases in the Dakar region at the outset of the project, and measure improvements as a
consequence of increased water and sanitation provision. This approach will enable us to follow
the health benefits and relate them the improved water and sanitation services, and will serve as a
basis for measuring the benefits in the ex-post analysis of the project's ICR
(v) The project's health benefits have been assumed to (i) have a positive impact on the reduction of
water-borne diseases occurrence and therefore (ii) result in a decrease in public health expenditures
due to improved water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems (detailed calculation below). It is
also assumed that the project would facilitate a better access to safe water, sanitation and
emphasize hygiene education.
(a) Malaria In Senegal, malaria is the main cause of morbidity representing between 40-50
percent of all consultations (approximately 450,000 reported cases in 1994). It accounts for
about 11 percent of all disabilities adjusted years (DALY). Based on a sub-regional average
cost of a case of malaria, malaria's annual economic burden in Senegal represents 1 percent
of GDP (about US$46.6 million) (5). Urban Malaria has recently been declared by major
health institutions (the World Health Organization and the Senegalese Ministry of Health) as
a priority area, in which an increased intervention is needed. The yearly economic cost of the
disease, in the areas covered by the project, was conservatively estimated at US$15.5
million. Estimations calculated in the attached cost benefits analysis tables take into account
a reduction of 20% in malaria incidents as a consequence of the project's implementation.
Sensitivity analysis on the parameter is performed.
(b) Diarrheal Diseases. Reliable and accurate data regarding diarrheal morbidity and
mortality rates in Senegal was not available. The data presented in this analysis is based on
various sources, such as the last demographic survey performed in Senegal in 1997 (6), and
interviews conducted with local NGOs and a Pediatric doctor dealing with the
diarrhea-related diseases on a daily basis. Diarrheal morbidity and mortality constitutes the
- 43 -



main cause of death in Senegal, especially among infants, and was estimated to be the cause
of 21 percent of all infant deaths. The closest reliable estimates available are presented in
table 4.4. A median reduction of 27 percent in diarrhea morbidity and 30 percent in
diarrheal mortality was found in a subset of studies with the provision of improved water
supply and sanitation. Projects combining excreta disposal, watcr supply and hygiene
education may achieve a higher reduction of 35 to 50 percent in diarrheal morbidity.
Table 4.4: Diarrheal Morbidity and Mortality rates in Senegal, 1998.
Diarrheal Morbidity (Episodes  4.0        0.8       0.25       0.25      5.3
per person per year)I
Diarrheal Mortality (deaths per  9.5      0.4        0.1       0.1       10.1
1000 person per year)
The cost benefit analysis of the proposed project takes into account a conservative rate of
(i) 30 percent reduction in the total diarrheal morbidity of 5.3 episodes per person per year
and (ii) 25 percent reduction of diarrheal mortality of 10.1 deaths per 1000 person per year
(project population coverage of 2.7 million people). The savings deriving from the
mortality and morbidity improvements are based on the 1998 domestic production per
capita (a detailed explanation is attached in the project files). Sensitivity analysis is
performed on these variables.
Note of caution. Since the benefits deriving from water supply and sanitation of the
project are combined (as explained above), while the cost benefit analysis performed is
calculated separately for each of the three main components of the project - the health
related benefits were attributed proportionally to each analysis (water supply - Dakar and
Secondary Centers, and Sanitation and Sewerage). Although this method will not have an
effect on the aggregate ERR of the project, it still has a very minor impact on the accuracy
of the individual ERRs of the different components and should be, therefore, treated with
caution. The ERR of the sanitation component is somehow skewed upwards, and that of
the water supply downwards.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
9.    Table 4.5 presents the project's main parameters sensitivity and the corresponding changes in the
IRRs and NPVs of these parameters.
- 44 -



4.5: Switching Critical Values of Costs and Benefits
Innvestment Costs        1 0     30%/        $280.44        $803.06        $522.62
Investment Costs        -10      36%         $240.73        $803.06        $562.33
Water Tariffs            10      33%         $260.58        $825.83        $565.25
Water Tariffs           -10      32%         $260.58        $780.28        $519.70
Health Benefits          10      36%         $260.58        $825.83        $565.25
Health Benefits         -10      31%         $260.58        $774.29        $513.71
Monte Carlo Simulation
10. In order to forecast the scenarios presented in the above economic analysis, a simulation which
includes a range of possible scenarios has been performed. To construct such a simulation, we have utilized
a forecasting and risk analysis software (Crystal Ball) that performs a Monte Carlo risk analysis, in which
a set of possible values for each uncertain parameter is defined. Such a simulation recalculates the main
assumptions used in constructing the cost-benefit analysis (three sets of assumption parameters have been
used and include the total investment costs, the consumer payments for water, and the health benefits of the
project), while the forecast parameters are the IRR and the net NPV on these investments. The simulation
displays the possiblc outcomes, and the likelihood of achieving each of them. Tables 4.6 and 4.7 below
summarizes the frequency and probability with which the NPV and the IRR will occur. A simulation
consisting of a thousand trials has been performed. Based on these assumptions, there is an 75% chance
that the project's NPV will be US$350 million or above and thatthe IRR will be 15 percent or above.
Table 4.6: Frequency Chart - Forecasting the NPV of IRR
Forecast: IRR Forecast
1,000 Trials         Frequency Chart           3 Outliers
030                                          30
.023                                         22- 5
015                              ~~~~~~~~~15  La
oo 00               1?0'    ,;8              7.s5 >
.0 015
o 13     0.14      0.16     0.17      0.19
Percentage
Table 4.7: Frequency Chart - Forecasting the NPV of Net Benefits
- 45 -



Forecast: Net Benefits
1,000 Trials        Frequency Chart           9 Outliers
.037                                       37
.028                                       27.75
0*
3,.009-                                       9.25   ,,
.000-                                      0
$310.00  $337.50  $365.00  $3.50    $420.00
USS million
Appendix
Economic Costs and Benefits Associated with Activities' Outside the Dakar Region
1.      The Lac de Guiers extends over 240 square kilometers, encompasses 41 villages with a total
population of about 70,000 people, and is currently linked to the Senegal River through an artificial canal
(Taoue). The LTP is supposed to draw 65,000 m3/day from the lake, in addition to the 40,000 m3/day it
currently transfers to the Dakar region. The project's activities associated with the lake will provide: (i)
technical assistance to improve the Water Resource Management (WRM) and enforce water protection
measures; (ii) rehabilitation of dykes and gates which regulate flow in the St. Louis reservoir; and (iii) safe
water supply to the area's residents. The activities generated by the project are foreseen to bring about
environmental, health, and agricultural activity-related changes. The objective of the economic analysis is
to estimate these changes qualitatively, and evaluate their impacts.
2.   The lake serves as a main source of water for the city of Dakar and the secondary centers around. It
would be impractical to examine the changes occurring in Dakar without relating them to changes in the
water source area, namely the Lake. These changes have not been measured and quantified jointly with
those of the rest of the project's costs and benefits, since, at this stage, such a computation can not be done
with a satisfying accuracy and would, therefore, bias the other components' analysis. The WRM
component and the change of prospects emerging from it, are different in nature from the costs and benefits
of the other components.
Benefits
3.     The project's incremental activities, illustrated above, will have the following potential economic
benefits:
(i) Water Resource Management of the Lake. The project will improve the environmental management of
the lake, and result in a more coordinated utilization by its major stakeholders. The plan revolves around
the concept of varying the lake's water level between its current level and those that existed before the two
dams were built (Diama and Manantali, established in 1988 and 1991, respectively).  Various
environmental studies have been perforned in the course of the project's preparation. They have analyzed
the complex ecological aspects, conflicts, and complementarities associated with an increase in the lake's
water exploitation (7). These studies will result in a specific mitigation plan (to be an integral part of the
project's Environmental Management Plan), ensuring proper use of the lake's resources. The plan will aim
to minimize the potential risks associated with the incremental activities around the lake, and is likely to
- 46 -



result in an overall increase of benefits through the following activities:
(a) Regulating and reorganizing the process of water management with the following specific steps:
=w    constitution of a local committee on the lake's management;
X      modifications of the management of, and dispositions to the Lake (level variations);
X      establishment of a long-term action plan, regarding the following aspects:
=w'    potable water provision to riparian populations,
=>    rehabilitation of works and dikes and the re-establishment of runoffs towards annexed ecological
areas (Ndiael);
X*     maintenance program of the Lake and its banks;
=w     public health measures;
X~  control of pollution;
X      establishment of protective perimeters at water withdrawal points;
X~  construction of an operational framework regarding the Lake's management;
X      provision of fmancial support to enable the proper operation of the lake's management.
X~  finalizing the legal and regulatory aspects necessary for the implementation of the lake's action
plan,
including the application modalities of water police powers;
(b) Monitoring the exploitation of surrounding agricultural land use and the disposal of chemicals
due to these activities caused by various users, such as:
w      The Compagnie Sucriere Seneglaise (CSS), which has been operating in the area since 1970, has
been expanding its production steadily, and is currently exploiting around 8000 hectares, mainly in the
northem parts of the lake (8). The company is using water from the Senegal River and disposing it
untreated into the lake, with grave environmental consequences and high costs. Questions regarding the
efficiency and appropriateness of this activity have been raised for some time and merit a thorough
discussion that is out of the scope of this analysis. The issues at stake include: (i) estimating the real cost
of producing sugar relative to the employment this production creates for the residents of the area; (ii)
altemative agricultural activities (higher added value) that could replace sugar growing and be more
adapted to the environmental constraints of the lake; and (iii) the incremental cost of treating water, bome
by SDE and passed on to consumers, as consequence of this pollution.
(ii) Water provision to villages around the lake. The project will ensure that part of the villages situated
in the proximity of the water treatment plant established will be provided with potable water. The modes of
provision, profitability, and sustainability of these activities will have to be further explored. The health
benefits of treated water provision to the villages around the lake are undoubtedly high.
(iii) Additional potential activities as a consequence of changes introduced by the project. Currently the
population around the lake is engaged in the following agricultural activities for their livelihood:
=X     Flood recession agriculture. It is estimated that a better supervision of the lake's changing level of
water over the year can reestablish some of the flood recession agriculture, which was once practiced on a
larger scale in parts of the lake.
X     Fishing. A substantial reduction in the lake's vegetation can be expected due to a better regulation
of the ecosystem, and improvement in the quality of water. This will enable villages to reestablish
traditional fishing activities around the lake. Although fishing is a prevalent activity in the area, its
potential is not fulfilled mainly due to the proliferation of typha (water plants inhabiting parts of the lake),
due to the construction of the two dams mentioned above.
X~  Cattle Breeding in the area is a primary activity among villagers. They find it increasingly hard to
- 47 -



come across places free from typha for their herds, which probably limits expansion of this activity.
=>    Improvement of irrigation to the villages around the lake. In case of incremental irrigation
constructed to villages around the lake in the future, the growing agricultural activities will improve the
economic livelihood of residents. This scenario is unlikely in the near future and should, therefore, not be
taken into account as a benefit, since these activities require investment, currently not available to the lake's
population.
(iv) Health improvements. Health improvements associated with the project include benefits due to
incremental safe water supplied to the residents. These benefits which are the most likely to materialize
upon the construction of the water plant, will contain high health benefits and are related to improvements
associated with the two most common endemic diseases in the region, Bilharzia and malaria. Currently the
lake's population is utilizing the lake, as the single source, for all their water needs. As the malaria and
Bilharzia incidence has certainly increased over the last years (exact data is not available and might be
documented as a part of the project), so has the population's exposure to these endemic diseases.
Hopefully, when better lake management coincides with the provision of treated water to villages, this rate
might decrease. The mitigation plan of the project includes specific activities associated with increasing
hygiene awareness and information regarding public health, weed water site management activities, and
other health monitoring activities.
(v) Additional income from working at the water treatment plant. The current water treatment plant in
Ngith is providing work for dozens of workers from the area. It has become a center around which many
residents live. It would be practical to envision the same situation occurring around the new water
treatment plant to be established. Planning that would involve a rural development specialist might be
useful to enable advanced planning of a similar movement of residents and maximize the benefits.
Costs
4.     Possible economic costs of the above activities should take into account the opportunity cost
associated with the activities and benefits described above. In addition, the exact amount of the plan has
not yet been fmalized, but it is in the vicinity of US$9 million. Additional costs associated with the project'
s activities around the lake include:
(i) Environmental costs of activities associated with additional water drawn from the lake. As the
project will generate additional activities (mainly traditional agriculture), it is likely that these
activities will have an impact on the flora, fauna, and level of chemical uses around the lake.
These potential costs need to be identified and, consequently, monitored by the mitigation plan of
the project.
(ii) Health deterioration resulting from growing agricultural activities in and around the lake.
These costs relate to the activities mentioned above. The project should aim to put in place an
efficient monitoring and supervising system that will minimize these effects. However, it is
important to make sure that the potential hazards are identified, listed, and treated with care.
ENDNOTES:
1) Lauria, Cueva, and Kolb - "Final report on the willingness to pay for improved water and sanitation, Dakar,
Senegal" March1998.
2) The various demand studies have been incorporated in the recent work done by the IFC for the GOS on the
long term options for solving the water problems of Dakar and presented in their study Demande en eau
-48 -



potable a Long Terme pour la region de Dakar, February 1998.
3) Lauria, Cueva, and Kolb - "Final report on the willingness to pay for improved water and sanitation, Dakar,
Senegal" March 1998.
4) Esrey, Potash, Roberts and Shiff, 1991, "Effects of Improved Water Supply and Sanitation on Ascariasis,
Diarrhea, Dracunculiasis, Hookworm infection, Schistosomiasis and Trachoma" Bulletin of the World
Health Organization.
5 ) Endemic Disease Cortrol Project - Republic of Senegal", Staff Appraisal Report, April 1997.
6 ) Enquete Demographique et de Sante au Senegal (EDSIII) 1997", Ministere de l'Economie, de Finances et du
Plan.
7 ) Jean-Luc Pigeon, "Environmental Impact Study of the Senegal Long Tern Project", May 1999.
8 ) Estimation des Valeurs Ecologiques et Economiques des Usages des Eaux du Lac du Guiers", TROPICA
Environmental Consultants, 1998.
- 49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Years Ending
Introduction
1.  One of the objectives of the Reforn Program of the Water Sector is to make the water
sector financially self-sustainable, i.e. achieve financial equilibrium, except for the support to be
given by the GOS through access to long-term financing from donors. This means that the
sector should have the capacity to meet all its financial obligations in accordance with their
terms, including debt service payments on old and new debt, counterpart funds on the
investments partly financed by donors, investments financed out of its own resources, payment
of all duties, taxes, and suppliers. In the context of the current institutional structure of the
sector, SONES acts, and should be viewed, as far as the issue of financial equilibrium is
concerned, as the proxy for the sector. In accordance with the contractual undertakings entered
into by the GOS in the Water Sector Project (WSP), financial equilibrium should be reached by
December 31, 2003.
2.     Financial equilibrium of the sector is affected by five main factors: (i) level of average
water tariff; (ii) volume of water sold; (iii) level of investments; (iv) mode and terms of
financing these investments; and (iv) target year for reaching financial equilibrium. The
financial analysis reviews the current progress of the sector towards reaching cash flow
equilibriun by 2003, and it discusses the impact of the Long Term Water Sector Project (LTP)
on that equilibrium and its consequences in terms of required annual adjustments to the level of
average water tariff.
3.     The financial analysis also reviews the financial viability of ONAS and the financial
sustainability of the development of urban sanitation services.
Water Sector Project (WSP, CR 2758)
3. After about three years of implementation of institutional reform, with operations
contracted out to a private company, SDE, significant progress has been made in the quality of
service delivery, efficiency of operations and cost recovery, in particular, in the payment of
water bills by the central public administrations (rate of recovery improved from 26 to 96% after
the reform, and payments made within 1.5 to 3 months following issuance of bills). In 1997,
piped water consumption by market gardeners remained at 9,640 m3/d on average (5% of total
water supplied), which is well below the ceiling of 14,000 m3/d as defined in the related Action
Plan. The fifti yearly water tariff increase of 2.94% became effective in January 1999 in view of
achieving the targeted financial equilibrium by 2003. All annual tariff adjustments applied so
far (1995-1999) ranged between 2.5 and 3 %, however, the increase effective in March 2000
was 3.9%. In spite of a 12-month delay in implementing the project, which shortened the period
of attainment of financial equilibrium by one year, the 2003 horizon will still be met. The sector
is estimated to produce a free cash surplus of about 5,500 million CFAF in 2004. This is largely
due to: a reduction in the investment package under the WSP; more efficient implementation
once the works were started; and more efficient use of water by the municipalities and
administration coupled with faster recovery of receivables from these consumers.
- 50 -



Table 1: Updated Parameters for the Water Sector Project
1998    1999    2000     2001      2002      2003      2004       2005      2006
Volume sold to Market    11 511   12 286   10 700    10 700    10 700    8 000  7 000      6 000      5 000
Gardeners (m3/day)
Tariffs charged to Market  103.17   103.17   103.17    103.17    103.17    415.51  423.82  432.29     440.94
Gardeners (CFAF/m3)
Capacity phasing of the WSP      13.41    23.36    23.36    23.36     23.36     23.36      23.36      23.36
(Mm3/yr)
Contractual volumnes to be sold   78.27    78.89    83.64  89.62  95.31  99.72   104.35    108.07     108.07
by SdE (Mmn3/yr)
4.  In addition, municipalities are now treated like regular customers, and a cut-off policy has
been implemented by SDE that is curbing wastage and rationalizing consumption. Water
consumption has been reduced by 50% as a result of this. The problem related to municipalities'
arrears for 1996 and 1997, totaling one billion CFAF, is in the process of being resolved. This
is an important issue, and failure to recover the arrears may jeopardize the cash flow equilibrium
of the water sector.
5.      SONES  has experienced delays in implementing the distribution  sub-component
(extensions, rehabilitation, individual connections, water meters) which adversely impacted on
the performance of the water sector by holding back water sales. This created cash flow
problems for SDE, which made a financial claim to GOS and submitted a request to renegotiate
the contractual UFW target values. This claim was settled in November 1998.
Impact on Future Tariffs of the Long-term Water Sector Project (LTP)
6. The basic assumptions used in the WSP have been retained in the proposed LTP, including:
(a) IDA financing to be passed on to the sector in the form of either equity, or loan (loan terms to
be identical to IBRD terms i.e. 15 years total maturity, 5-year grace period, interest rate of
approx. 8%); (b) in case of over-capacity, preference is given to surface water over ground
water (from wells); (c) distribution and bill collection efficiencies achieved in the WSP are
projected to be sustained. The projections for water demand are those provided in the water
demand study of March 1998 commissioned by the GOS. These demand projections have been
validated by a team of independent water experts during appraisal. Table 2 shows the 1998
actual figures and projections for the period from 1999 through 2006 for water demand,
available capacity with the WSP but without the LTP, and volume of water sold.
- 51 -



Table 2: Projected demand, Available Capacity and Volumes Sold (Mm3/yr) (*)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Production capacity required to  117  118  111  111      112     116      120     124      128
satiw the projeded demand
Capacity available    96.23    98.33    111.07   118.48   118.59   139.78   139.90   130.44   130.58
Waterproducedfor sale  96.23    98.33    111.00   111.00   112.00   116.00   120.00   124.00   128.00
7.  Several scenarios were considered in structuring the financing plan of the LTP. The
scenario which was finally retained as realistic and consistent with the long-term strategy of the
sector includes: (a) the financing of the investment in the new treatment plant and pumping
station by the vendor through a combination of export credit, commercial loan and concessionary
financing; (b) financing of the water main from the treatment plant in KMS to Gueoul through
an IDA credit to be passed on by the GOS to the sector in the form of equity; and (c) financing
of the pipes from Gueoul to Thies, the extension of the distribution system, and additional water
storage capacity in Dakar through credits from IDA and other donors (see financing plan). IDA
participation in the investments described under (c) above will be passed on to the sector pardy
in the form of equity and pardy in the form of loan in the same proportion equity/loan as in the
current WSP (55% equity, 45% loan on terms similar to those of IBRD). The possibility of
passing on the portion of the IDA credit financing the water main (see b above) as a mix of
equity and loan (55% equity/45% loan) instead of 100% equity was considered but rejected as
this would have implied annual tariff increases of over 6% through 2003.
8.  Under the above scenario, the proposed new investments are separated into two distinct
sub-components: (i) construction of the treatment plant and pumping station; (ii) construction of
the water main, improvement of the distribution network and increase in the storage capacity.
The treatment plant and pumping station will be procured through ICB in the form of a DBF
(Design, Build, Finance) contract whereby potential contractors have been invited to submit a
technical proposal to design and build the treatment plant and pumping station on a tunkey
basis and, at the same time, but separately, a financing proposal for the financing of the contract
is submitted. The total cost to construct the water treatment plant and the pumping station is
about US$18.0 million for a total treatment capacity of 65,000 m3/day. The total final capacity
of the treatment plant (135,000 m3/day) will be built in two successive phases in order to reduce
the financial impact of the new investments on the sector and to follow as closely as possible the
water demand curve as projected in the demand study, and thus minimize the time during which
the new pipe and treatment plant operate at less than full capacity. Accordingly, it is assumed
that 65,000 m3/day capacity will become available in 2003 at a capital cost equal to
approximately 80% of the total investment cost of the plant, and the additional 70,000 m3/day
will become available in 2008.
9. The remaining urban water supply investments totaling US$85 million are assumed to be
fmanced by IDA and other donors in the following manner: IDA US$54 million; AFD US$4
million (21 years, 2%); European Investment Bank US$13.5 million (EIB - 20 years, 4%/o); and
KFW US$14 million (25 years, 3%).
- 52 -



10. No counterpart funding would be required from the GOS or from the sector since the
financing raised by the private contractor (US$18.0 million) is considered equivalent to the
required counterpart funding.
11. Onthe basis ofthe above assumptions, the average watertariffincreaseswill be 3.91%per
year through 2003. Variations in the annual cash flow and the cumulative cash flow generated
by the sector in the period 1998-2005 are shown below:
Table 3: Cash flow position of the sector (in CFAF million)
1998     1999     2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
Annual tariff increase       2.60%    2.94%    3.91%    3.91%    3.91%    3.91%    2.00%       2.00%
Cumulative cash flow         2,834    1,282   -2,204   -4,360   -3,732         0    5,522      9,296
New drawing under                0        0      204    2,156         0        0        0          0
commercial bank facility
Interest charges on bank         0        0      -215     -376     -323     -216      -110       -53
facility
12. A sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to assess the impact on the annual tariff
increase requirements of three key parameters in the project through year 2003: (a) cost of
investment, (b) change in the price Pe charged by SDE relative to the current Pe, and (c) change
in the interest rate on the financing raised by the private contractor for the treatment plant. The
results are shown in Table 4 below:
- 53 -



Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis
Parameter Changed             Change           Required Tariff Increase p.a.
Relative to
Baseline
Assumption
Cost of Investment            +10%             2.81%
Cost of Investment            -10%             2.54%
Pe                            +5%              3.02%
Pe                            +10%             3.44%
Pe                            -5%              2.15%
Pe                            -10%/0           1.70%
Interest rate                 +25%             2.71%
Interest rate                 -25%             2.63%
- 54 -



BILAN PREVISIONNEL (Millions FCFA)
1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002       2003      2004      2005       2006      2007      2008
ACTIF
Immobilisationsbrutes                       110,651   163,547   114,551   203,724  253,750  283,207   292,191   294,101   296,011   296,511   297,011   297,511
Amortissements                               8,260     12,415    17,303    25,064   34,349   44,830    55,699    66,695    77,637    89,661    100,519   111,278
Itmnobilisationsnettes                      102,391   151,132   167,248   178,659  219,401   238,377   236,492   227,406   218,374   206,850   196,492   186,233
Clients                                      7,345      8,258     9,013     3,791     4,407    5,029      6,023     6,413     6,822      7,249     7,620     7,865
Autres Dbiteurs                              3,443      4,494     1,884      682      793       905       1,084     1,154     1,228      1,305     1,372     1,416
Comptes de regularisation actif                          0          0         0         0        0          0         0         0         0          0         0
Tr6sorerie (+/-) Cumul          1,994,391    3,807       351     -2,560    -2,204    -4,360    -3,732       0       5,222     9,296     13,784    18,477    23,646
TotalActif                                  116,986   164,235   175,585   180,930  220,242  240,580   243,599   240,196   235,721   229,188   223,959   219,160
PASSIF
Capita et Rserves                            78,493    78,594    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391    77,391
Subventions d'6quipementnet                  7,121     19,127    21,915    27,498   47,222    60,044    64,057    63,603    63,188    62,676    62,198    61,753
Report A nouveau                             -1,286    -2,113    -5,113    -5,610    -6,855    -8,161    -9,260    -7,700    -5,493    -1,490      2,037     6,844
R6sultatdelann6e                             -827      -3,000     -497      -1,245    -1,306    -1,098    1,560     2,206     4,003      3,527     4,807     5,623
Dettes A LT                                  19,548    55,392    69,390    76,341    96,078   104,809   102,146   94,007    85,658    76,032    66,009    55,986
Dettes a CT                                  3,377      3,944     2,502     5,655     6,556     6,556     6,504     9,415     9,626      9,626     10,023    10,023
Fournisseurs                                 3,740      3,851     2,355      218       363       136       117       119       120        122       123       125
Autres Crediteurs                            6,820      8,441     7,643      682       793       905      1,084     1,154      1,228     1,305     1,372     1,416
Compte de regularisation passif
TotalPassif                                 116,986   164,235   175,585   180,930  220,242  240,580   243,599   240,196   235,721   229,188   223,959   219,160
TABLEAU EMPLOIS & RESSOURCES (millions FCFA)
1998      1999      2000      2001     2002       2003      2004      2005       2006      2007      2008
EMPLOIS                                                63,770    31,678    25,087   56,350   36,927    16,552       8,803     11,732    10,551    10,495    10,767
RESSOURCES                                             60,314    28,767    25,443   54,193    37,556    20,284    14,025    15,807    15,039    15,188    15,936
ExcAdent ou insuffisaice de ressources
Solde annuel                                           -3,456    -2,911      356     -2,156     628       3,732     5,222     4,075     4,488      4,692     5,169
Soldecumule                                             351      -2,560    -2,204    -4,360    -3,732       0       5,222     9,296     13,784    18,477    23,646
Making the sanitation sector financial sustainable
13.    One of the objectives of the proposed project is to create the conditions for the sanitation
sector to become financially sustainable. Contrary to the water sector, because of the large
catch-up investment program which is necessary to bring the sector to a minimum level of quality
of service and the low starting base for the sanitation tax, the sanitation sector has no prospect of
becoming financially viable without a significant financial support from the govemnment budget
and the donors. ONAS does not even cover its operating expenses: in 1998, the agency showed
CFAF 484 million of losses on revenues of 1.63 billion, i.e. 29.7% of revenues.
14.    Under the reform of the sanitation sector to be introduced under the proposed project, the
sector sources of funds will be increased through (a) a phased increase in the sanitation tax and,
(b) the transfer of donors' grants by the government to ONAS in the form of investmnent subsidies
- 55 -



to finance capacity investments (as opposed to investments for renewal). The sector uses of funds
would consist of (a) operating expenses of ONAS; (b) investments of renewal which would be
financed out of ONAS own resources, and (c) investments of capacity financed through direct
grants from donors and indirect grants passed on to ONAS in the form of investment subsidies.
15.   Under the proposed reform, the sanitation tax would increase from CFAF 41/m3 of water
sold in 2000 to CFAF 61/m3 in 2003 and CFAF 75/m3 in 2005. This represents an average
annual increase of 13% p.a. from 2000 to 2005, which is higher than the annual 3.9% p.a.
increase for the water tariff, but brings the sanitation tax to 14% of the water tariff only, a
proportion which is still quite below intemational benchmarks which range from 20% to over 50%
of water tariffs. The higher revenues which these sanitation tax increases will generate higher
financial resources for ONAS which will be used to finance a progressively higher proportion of
investments of renewal out of its own resources, without recourse to grants or subsidies for that
type of investments.
16.    Taking into account the large need for investments of the sanitation sector, it is expected
that the sector will have to rely on grants and subsidies for the financing of the investments of
capacity for the next 10 years. The amount of capacity investments to be made by ONAS will be
directly linked to the level of the corresponding investment subsidies provided by the government.
17.   In order to minimize operating expenses, specifically personnel expenses and overhead
costs, ONAS will subcontract the operations of additional facilities to private local contractors.
For that purpose the technical capacity of ONAS to supervise the private operators will be
strengthened.
18.   A financial simulation has been conducted as part of the study of the financial viability of
ONAS in order to produce financial projections for the period 2000 to 2006. The results are
sumnarized in the table below.
ONAS
Summarized Income statement
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Average sanitation
taxlm3 of water          36.54    41.00    46.73    53.26    60.70    67.47    74.99    83.36
Revenues from operations
Sanitation tax           2,259    2,905    3,394    3,966    4,672    5,349    6,123    7,010
Investment subsidies     1,212    1,320    1,386    1,401    1,357    1,251    1,225    1,213
Othersourcesoffunds        427     811    1,310    1,710    1,229    1,169    1,186    1,203
Total Revenues           3,898    5,036    6,090    7,077    7,258   7,769    8,534    9,426
Operating expenses
Operating expenses
(without deprec.)        1,756    2,127    2,668    2,966    2,691    2,747    2,866    2,991
Depreciation             1,897    2,149    2,366    2,511    2,530    2,418    2,415    2,431
Total operating expenses    3,653    4,276    5,034    5,477    5,221    5,165    5,281    5,422
Operating income           245     760    1,056    1,600    2,037    2,604    3,253    4,004
Funds from operations
and investment subsidies    2,142    2,909    3,422    4,111    4,567    5,022    5,668    6,435
- 56 -



|Year I    Year 2  |Year 3  |Year 4  | Year 5  |Year 6  |Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          19.9       44.2       61.8       49.8      42.1       19.8      10.8
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         19.9       44.2       61.8       49.8      42.1       19.8      10.8
Total Financing             19.9       44.2       61.8       49.8      42.1       19.8      10.8
Financing
IBRDtIDA                  12.3       20.6      30.1       21.2       20.5      12.0        8.3
Government                 0.2        0.2       0.6        0.7        0.5       0.2        0.1
Central                0.2        0.2        0.6        0.7       0.5       0.2        0.1
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers(including    7.1       22.7      29.1       25.7       18.6       5.6        1.1
DBF)
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.3        0.7       2.0        2.2        2.5       2.0        1.3
(including SONES)
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     19.9      44.2       61.8       49.8      42.1       19.8      10.8
Main assumptions:
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Procurement
Guidelines
1.    A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in July 1994. For the project,
findings of the CPAR remain valid. Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
2.    IDA-financed goods and works will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loan and IDA Credits (published in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996 and January 1999). IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally will be
carried out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided
that: (i) bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids (three or four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic
manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (v) award will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents are
submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
3.    Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrower published in January 1997, revised in
September 1997, and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be
used for the solicitations of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding six months, carried out by finns or individual consultants.
4.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and will be advertised for all ICB contracts
for Goods and Works and consultant services that will be recruited on an intemational basis. This notice
will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement within the above description.
5.    The procurement methods for items to be financed by IDA are summarized in table A below.
Implementation Arrangements
6.     Project coinponents will be implemented by each interested agency and supervised by the project
coordinator of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) set up under the WSP within the Directorate of
Hydraulics and Sanitation (MH-DHA).
7.    SONES will manage the overall implementation of the urban water investmenTt program.
Rehabilitation, extension and connection works will be implemented by private firms after a competitive
bidding process. SONES will hire consultants to prepare detailed technical studies and bidding documents,
help evaluate bids and supervise construction works. Water service connections will be implemented by
SDE, the lease operator, based on connection costs included in the lease contract.
- 58 -



8.    ONAS will manage the overall implementation of the sanitation components including the
sewerage component in Dakar and secondary cities, the peri-urban sanitation component in Dakar and the
drainage component in Dakar. ONAS will hire consultants to prepare detailed technical studies and bidding
documents, help evaluate bids and supervise construction works for the sewerage and drainage.
Implementation of major civil works for the above will be carried out by contractors awarded through ICB.
9.    ONAS will delegate to AGETIP the managernent of the subprojects included in the peri-urban
sanitation component. AGETIP will be in charge of all procurement activities in accordance with the
manual of procedures which was prepared for this component, to be reviewed during negotiations and
enforced as a condition of credit effectiveness. These activities include (i) selecting local consultants to
prepare design studies, bidding documents and supervise construction works for community sanitation
systems; and (ii) hiring local contractors to implement community sanitation systems. AGETIP will recruit
local NGOs to assist communities and beneficiaries and monitor their performance, and receivefunds from
ONAS for capacity building activities of the artisans, small scale contractors, NGOs and the community.
AGETIP will also manage the matching funds for the community and the on-site sanitation facilities,
payment of NGOs, consultants, contractors and for the social marketing and community outreach activities.
10.   SGPRE will be responsible for recruiting consultants to carry out studies and training under the
water resources management component.
Procurement methods (Table A)
11.   Civil Works: Contracts for works above US$500,000 equivalent, including rehabilitation and
extension works in the distribution network will be procured through ICB. For contracts estimated to cost
less than US$500,000 equivalent, national competitive bidding (NCB) may be used up to an aggregate
amount of US$15.3 million.
12.    Goods: IDA financed goods will be procured through ICB except for goods that cannot be
grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent which would be procured through NCB and
adequate competition is expected, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$370,000 equivalent. In accordance with Bank guidelines, a preferential margin of 15% (or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less), over c.i.f prices of competing goods for all ICB procurement
would be given to domestically manufactured goods. Goods estimated to cost less than US$20,000
equivalent will be procured through national shopping provided it does not exceed an aggregate amount of
US$164,000 by obtaining at least three quotations from reliable suppliers.
13.   Subprojects: Civil works contracts and selection of local consultants and NGOs required for
subprojects included in the peri-urban component will be procured in accordance with community
participation methods described in the manual of procedures for the peri-urban sanitation component, up to
an aggregate amount of US$26.8 million.
14.   Consultants and other services financed by IDA would be for (i) design and supervision of works;
(ii) technical and financial audits; (iii) technical studies; and (iv) training. Consultants, financed by IDA,
amounting to US$18.09 million would be hired in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of consultants (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). Selection of
most consultants (for design, technical audits, training and technical studies) will be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by
evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. As for
- 59 -



works supervision (for contracts below US$50,000) and financial audits selection will be onLower Cost
Based Selection (LCS). AGET1P has been selected on a sole source basis for contract management
services under the pen-urban sanitation component. AGETIP has developedextensive experience in
managing such contracts and has a comparative advantage of efficiency and economy. Individual
consultants for some specialized technical studies where firms are not required would be selected through
comparison of at least three CVs and qualifications. Short-list for contracts under US$50,000 may be
comprised of national consultants if sufficient qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive
costs. However, if foreign firms express interest they will not be excluded.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            68.56          15.30           0.00          104.45        188.31
(67.09)        (13.77)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (80.86)
2. Goods                            4.50            0.37           0.16           2.26          7.29
(4.28)         (0.35)         (0.15)         (0.00)        (4.78)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          19.03           4.65          23.68
/Training                           (0.00)         (0.00)         (19.03)        (0.00)        (19.03)
4. Subprojects/Peri-urban            0.00           0.00          26.82           0.00          26.82
(0.00)         (0.00)        (18.07)         (0.00)        (18.07)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00           0.84           0.00          0.84
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.76)         (0.00)        (0.76)
6. PPF refinancing                   0.00           0.00           1.50           0.00           1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.50)         (0.00)        (1.50)
Total                            73.06          15.67          48.35          111.36        248.44
(71.37)        (14.12)        (39.51)        (0.00)        (125.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. AU costs include contingencies
2 Includes works and goods for subprojects, goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of conlracted staff of the project managemein office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project
funds to local governmuent units.
- 60 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
15.   IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above the threshold of US$500,000 equivalent for
works and US$100,000 for goods would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process
would cover about 80% of the total value of the amount contracted for civil works and goods and 60% of
the amount contracted for consultant services (See Table B). Selected post-review of contracts awarded
below the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff
using technical audits and other consultants as deemed necessary.
In addition, for subprojects managed by AGETIP, the first ten contracts above US$50,000 will be
subject to IDA prior review.
16.   For consultants services, prior IDA review would apply to contracts with firms selected from a
short-list estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent and US$50,000 for individual consultants,
but would apply to the terms of reference for such contracts, single-source hiring of firms, assignments of
critical nature (as determined by IDA), and amendments to contracts . For consultant contracts estimated
above US$100,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's
no-objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to procurement below the prior review
thresholds will be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision
missions.
Table B3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                      C>500,000                  ICB                   PR=72.7
C<500,000                 NCB                   post review
2. Goods                      C>100,000                  ICB                    PR=2.5
C<100,000                 NCB                   post review
C<50,000           Intemational/National       post review
Shopping
3. Services                  C>100,000               QCBS/LCS                     PR
a. firms                      C<100,000                  LCS                  post review
b. individuals                C>50,000                Individual              post review
c. AGETIP                                            Single Source
4. Subprojects                                  Community participation   First ten contracts above
US$50,000
TOTAL Prior Review                                                               75.2
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$75.2 million
- 61 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Threshonds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
7Pft,UMI                   on jrceN'S
1. Civil Works
la. SONES (Part A. 1)                  40.8                         100%
lb. SONES (Parts A.2 and B)             9.4                         90%
lc. ONAS                               15.5                         90%
ld. Other                               3.1                          90%
Total                                      68.8
2. Goods and Equipment                                             100% foreign and
2a. SONES                               2.8                       90% local
2b. ONAS                                0.4
2c. Other                               0.6
Total                                       3.8
3. Subprojects                              15.4               100% of amounts disbursed
4. Consulting Services                                                  100%
4a. SONES                               5.0
4b. ONAS                                4.0
4c. Other                               3.2
Total                                      12.2
5. Training                                                             100%
Sa. SONES                               0.7
5b. ONAS                                0.5
5c. Other                               2.9
Total                                       4.1
6. Operating Costs                          0.7                          90%
7. Refinancing of PPF                       1.5                         100%
8. Unallocated                             18.5
Total                                      125.0
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement
17.   Disbursements will be made against statement of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures for: (i)
works under contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing
less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
- 63 -



Special Account
18.   In order to ensure that funds needed for project implementation are available in a timely manner, a
Special Account denominated in CFAF will be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be CFAF 750,000,000. The initial amount deposited will
be CFAF 400,000,000. The Special Account will be replenished each month, or as soon as the total
disbursed from the account amounts to one third of the initial deposit. The project will be able to request
an additional deposit (to reach the authorized allocation) once an aggregate amount of SDR 10 million has
been disbursed.
Financial Management Assessment
19.   An assessment of the financial management capacities was done during project appraisal to review
the eligibility of the agencies responsible for project financial management (SONES, ONAS and PCU) for
LACI-based disbursements. It was noted that the principal agency, SONES has adequate experience with
Bank procedures, but some weaknesses were identified in the three agencies, and these have been taken into
account defining and agreeing upon an action plan to raise the level of accounting and financial
management to comply with the requirements for LACI procedures.
20.   Financial management activities for the Project will be canried out by SONES, ONAS and the
PCU. SONES and the PCU meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. But for LACI
implementation, their budget monitoring procedures need to be improved and a system set up to monitor
physical progress. ONAS' financial management capacities, which are presentdy weak, are being
strengthened with the support of an extemal accounting firm, including developing a manual of procedures
and installing a new computerized financial management and accounting system. Setting up the new
financial management system for ONAS is a condition for credit effectiveness. The PCU's financial
management system needs to be strengthened through installation of an accounting software and
recruitment of a qualified accountant prior to effectiveness.
21.   An action plan has been defined for SONES, ONAS and the PCU to bring their financial
management systems into compliance with LACI requirements. This action plan will be implemented over
a period not exceeding 18 months after the date of credit effectiveness. Prior to LACI compliance, the
financial management systems of SONES, ONAS and the PCU will be able to (a) reliably record and
report all financial transactions of the project; and (b) provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information for managing and monitoring project activities, as required to meet the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements under OP 10.02.
Reporting
22.    SONES will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) following the models
presented in the LACI Implementation Handbook. ONAS and the PCU will also prepare the same type of
reports once their financial management systems have been strengthened according to the defined action
plan.
23.    During the appraisal mission, it was agreed tiat annual financial statements of the project will be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Senegal. The financial statements
will include at least a statement of sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the special
accounts, a balance sheet and required notes to the financial statements. The financial statements will be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
- 64 -



Auditing
24.    The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with auditing standards also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of
reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
the project financial statements;
the use of statement of expenditures (SOE); and
withdrawals from the Special Account.
A management report on Internal Controls will be included outlining any recommendations for improving
internal accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
In addition to the audit of the project's financial statements mentioned above, SONES and ONAS
financial statements will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in
accordance with auditing standards also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period. The selection of an auditor
acceptable to IDA for all project accounts and for the financial statements of SONES and ONAS is a
condition of effectiveness.
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Prjc $hed        El~ ::                           P1al:w4 -2. :A::  . .tua   lg$         g 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24                            36
First Bank mission (identification)             06/27/98                      06/27/98
Appraisal mission departure                     06/01/99                      06/01/99
Negotiations                                    12/13/99                      11/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2000                   07/31/2001
Prepared by:
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in collaboration with executing agencies: Ministry of Energy and
Hydraulics (MEH), Department of Water Works and Sanitation (MH-DHA); National Water Company of
Senegal (SONES); National Office of Urban Sanitation (ONAS); Water Resources Management and
Planning                                Unit                                (MH-SGPRE).
Preparation assistance:
PPF Q-119-0
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   11 $p8iat
Richard Verspyck/Jan G. Janssens  Team Leaders
Matar Fall                        Water and Sanitation Specialist
Eustache Ouayoro                  Water and Sanitation Specialist
Claude Sorel                      Private Sector Development Specialist
Paul Kriss                        Economist
Bernard Abeille                   Procurement Specialist
Sylvie Debomy                     Urban Specialist
Eleanor Warner                    Financial Analyst
Fanny Barrett                     Program Assistant
James A. Listorti                 Environmental Health Specialist
Yves Prevost                      Environmental Assessment Specialist
Moustapha Ndiaye                  Financial Management Specialist
Kishor Uprety                     Counsel
Solange Alliali                   Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab                   Senior Disbursement Officer
Torbjorn Damhaug                  Consultant
Quality Assurance Team
Lee Travers                       Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist (Economic Analysis)
Pierre Vieillescazes              Senior Financial Officer (DBF)
Cyprian Fisiy                     Lead Social Scientist (Social Aspects of the Environmental Assessment)
Tova Solo                         Senior Urban & Sanitation Specialist (peri-urban sanitation component)
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manuel de mise en oeuvre du projet, juin 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment of SONES, ONAS & PCU, August 1999.
C. Other
Technical (Water Supply) & Overall Project Concept Studies
1.     Rapport strategique, SFI, mai 1998
Annexe A: Etude de la demande
Annexe B: Rapport technique
Annexe C: Rapport financier
Annexe D: Rapport juridique et institutionnel.
2.     Etat d'avancement du dossier, SFI, 5 avril 1999.
3.     Rapport juridique preliminaire, Gide Loyrette Nouel, mars 1999.
4.     Rapport an Comite de pilotage, SFI, 4 mars 1999.
5.     Complement au rapport du 4 mars, SFI, 16 mars 1999.
6.     Eldments de strategie (presentation revisde), SFI, 3 mars 1999.
7.     Rapport juridique final (Gide Loyrette Nouel), mai 1999.
8.     Rapport provisoire APS station de traitement de Keur Momar Sarr et conduite (BCEOM/BRL), juin
1999.
9.     Rapport final, SFI, (en preparation).
10.    Etude de renforcement a I'aval de Gueoul, BRL, Rapport provisoire, juin 1999.
Sanitation and Drainage
12.    Evaluation technique et financiere de l'assainissement de Camberene ((Joseph Martial Ribeiro, d6ecembre
1998).
13.    Etude institutionnelle des organes d'execution de la composante assainissement autonome, Michel Voyer,
jin 1998.
14.    Evaluation technique et financiere de la composante assainissement autonome des villes de Saint Louis et
Kaolack, Crepa, d6cembre 1998.
15.    Audit du profil environemental et sanitaire de laville de Kaolack, Crepa, decembre 1998.
16.    Projet de drainage pluvial du triangle sud et des points d'inondation du Boulevard Dial Diop et du
Boulevard du Centenaire de la Commune de Dakar, Mbaye Mbengue Faye, mai 1999.
17.    Restructuration du systeme d'assainissement de la Corniche Ouest, N'diamne Dieng, mai 1999).
18.    Programme d'assainissement autonome des quartiers de Goxumbacc a Saint Louis, Crepa, avril 1999.
19.    Assainissement des communes d'arrondissement de Keur Massar/Sicap Mbao, Ibrahima Mbengue, mai
1999).
20.    Assainissement de la zone d'amenagement concerte de Mbao, Aniadou De, mai 1999.
21.    Evaluation technique et fnanciere de l'assainssement de Camberene, Joseph Martial Ribeiro, mai 1999.
22.    Evaluation du projet de drainage de Pikine, Malick Kebe, mai 1999.
23.    Etude de faisabilite d'un prograrmue d'urgence et de renouvellement du reseau de Dakar, Beture, avril
1999.
24.    Manuel provisoire de mise en oeuvre de la composante assainissement des quartiers peri-urbains,
Abdoulaye Ndoye, juin 1999.
- 67 -



Peri Urban and Small & Community Enterprises
25.    Etude de faisabilite participative du programme d'assainissement des quartiers periurbains de la region de
Dakar, Ousseynou Ly, IAGU, mars 1999.
26.    Etude economique pour la composante appui a la petite entreprise, Daouda Sakho, Robert Koch, juin
1998.
27.    Etude institutionnelle des organes d'execution pour la composante appui a la petite entreprise, Michel
Voyer, juillet 1998.
28.    Cahier des charges des prestataires et methodologie de partenariat, Gabriel Regallet, SIE, juillet 1998.
29.    Monographie des quartiers periurbains de Guediawaye, AFVP, septembre 1998.
30.    Monographie des quartiers periurbains de Dakar et Pikine, ENDA-TM, septembre 1999.
31.    Petits operateurs economiques des services d'eau et d'assainissement aux populations pauvres, Etude de
cas, la Ville de Dakar, Daouda Sakho, fevrier 1999.
32.    Petits operateurs economiques des services d'eau et d'assainissement aux populations pauvres: rapport de
mise en oeuvre, Malal Toure, mai 1999.
33.    Projet de rehabilitation, de renforcement et de rentabilisation des installations d'assainissement du
complexe touristique de Saly Portudal et de Thies, Aliou Niang, mai 1999).
Economic and Financial
34.    Final report on the willingness to pay for improved water and sanitation, Dakar, Senegal, Lauria, Cueva
and Kolb, March       1998.
35.    Various demand studies have been incorporated in the recent work done by the IFC for the GOS on the
long term options for solving the water problems of Dakar and presented in their study Demande en eau
potable a Long Terme pour la region de Dakar, February 1998.
36.    Effects of Improved Water Supply and Sanitation on Ascariasis, Diarrhea, Dracunculiasis, Hookworm
infection,            Schistosomiasis and Trachoma, Esrey, Potash, Roberts and Shiff, 1991.
Bulletin of the World Health Organization.
37.    Endemic Disease Control Project - Republic of Senegal, Staff Appraisal Report, April 1997.
38.    Enquete Demographique et de Sante au Senegal (EDSIII) 1997, Ministere de l'Economie, de Finances et
du Plan.
39.    Etude economique et financiere de la composante assainissement autonome par Robert Koch et Daouda
Sakho, juin 1998.
40.    Etude des previsions de la demande en eau de la rdgion de Dakar, Judo Kaertz et Matar Gueye, decembre
1998.
41.    Etude de la grille tarifaire de l'assainissement, Castalia, juillet 1998.
42.    Etude de la viabilitd a long tenme du sous-secteur de l'assainissement, Fadhel Ghariani, juin 1999.
43.    Etude des moyens financiers du SGPRE (en preparation), Momar Souare.
Environment
44.    Rapport final d'etude d'impact environnemental du projet, Jean Luc Pigeon et Mbarack Diop, juillet
1999.
45.    Environmental Impact Study of the Senegal Long Term Project, Jean-Luc Pigeon, May 1999.
46.    Estimation des valeurs ecologiques et economiques des usages des eaux du Lac du Guiers, TROPICA
Environmental Consultants, avril 1998.
*Including electronic files
-68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P041566        2001 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM                       0.00     30.00                   0.00       0.00      30.47       0 00       000
P055471        2001 TRADEREFORMANDCOMPETITIVENESS                         0.00    100.00                   0.00       0.00      48.13       1.87       000
P057996        2000 NAT.INFRA.PROGRAM                                     0.00     28.50                   0.00       0.00      26.76      10.56       0.00
P055472        2000 URBAN MOBELITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                    0.00     70.00                   0.00       0.00      68.39       4.08       o.0
P047319        2000 Ouaity Education For All Program                      0.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00      47.73       0.00       000
P069198        2000 Distanoe Leaming Center - LIL                         0.00       2.10                  0.00       0.00       2.10       0 91        0.00
P067498        2000 Y2K NATIONAL ACTION PLAN SUPPORT PROJECT              0.00      10.15                  0.00       0.00       8.25       6.50       000
P002367        1999 AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                                  0.00      27.40                  0 00       0.00      24 25      15.88       0.00
P002366        1999 TRANSPORT I                                           0.00      90.00                  0.00       0.00      81 11       9 03       0.00
P051357        1998 ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                                      0.00     100.00                  0.00       0.00      74.24      73.95       0.00
P051610        1998 AGEXPORT PROMOTION                                    0.00       8.00                  0.00       0.00       5.63       3.67       0.36
P002365        1998 URBDEVT&DECENPRO                                      0.00      75.00                  000        0.00      52.85      31.26       0.00
P002369        1998 INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                                  0.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00      32.23      21.95       0.00
P046648        1997 REGIONAL POWER                                        0.00      10.50                  0 00       0 00       4.01       432        0.00
P046768        1997 SUST PART.ENGY.MGMT.                                  0.00       5.20                  4 70       0 00       3.72       2 82       0.94
P041567        1997 ENDEMIC DISEASES                                      0.00      14.90                  0.00       0.00      12.03        9.87      716
P044383        1997 URBANTRANSREFTA                                       0.00       6.60                  0.00       0.00       2.17       2.23       0.00
P042056        1997 SUST PART ENGY MGMT                                   000        0.00                  4.70       0.00       2.78        1.49      0.65
P002373        1996 HIGHER EDUC I                                         0.00      26.50                  0.00       0.00       8.74        1.66       0.00
P035621        1996 PILOT FEMALE LITERACY                                 0.00      12.60                  0.00       0.00       1 81       -2.12      0.00
P002346        1995 WATER SECTOR                                          0.00     100.00                  0.00       0.00      50.13       66.24     63 24
P002376        1995 PRIVSCTR.CAP.BLDG                                     0.00      12.50                  000        000        2.31        3.96       3.96
P035616        1995 COMM NUTRITION                                        0.00      18.20                  0.00       0.00       0.06        2.28       2.31
Total:        0.00      848.15                9.40         0.00      589.91     272.41      78 61
- 69 -



SENEGAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996/97/98         AEFSERT                         0.11    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.11    0.00      0.00    0.00
1980               BHS                             0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46       0.00    0.00
1999               CimentsduSahel                 11.91    2.09    2.08    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1997               GTI Dakar                      10.93    1.56    0.00     9.08    7.53    1.27      0.00    9.08
1998                SEFSENTA                       0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00       0.00    0.00
SOGECA                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1994/96
Total Portfolio:        23.14     4.11    2.08     9.08     7.83    1.73    0.00    9.08
In Millions CFAF
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               SEF Royal Saly                 1000.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
1998               GTiDakarIncr.                  3113.26      0.00    219.96      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      4113.26      0.00    219.96      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SENEGAL: LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
Senseal    Africa   Income        Development diamond'
1999
Ponijlation mid-vear (millions)                          93        f47     ? 417                  Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita fAtlas method. USS)                      510        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. USS bulionsl                         4 7       371       988
Averaae annual arowth. 1993.99
Ponilatinn (%)                                           7 7       7 2        19 
Labor force f%)                                          27        26         2 3     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-99)                                 capita                        rnrotmr,t
Pnvertv (% of Dooulation below national Dovertv line)
Urban Donulation (% Of total DoDulation)                 47         34        31
I ifr eyenrtanrv at hirth (vearsi                        57         sn        fn0
Infant mortalitv (Der 1. 000 live births)                69         92        77
Child malndtritinn (% of children under 5i               72         32        43                Access to safe water
Ar,ress tn imnrnved water snirce (14 of DoIulation)     sn         43        f4
Illiteracv (% of ooDulation aoe f5+)                     64         39        39
Grnss rnlmarv enrnIlment ff4 of school-aao DoDulationl   71         78        9                    Senegal
Male                                                   78         85       102                   Low-income group
Frmale                                                 R.5        71        Rf
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197J     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GCrP tuSS billionsl                            72        4 ri      47         48
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 114       119       186        188                      Trade
Fynnrts nf rnnds and servines/flfP            3ns 9    787        33 0      37                        Ta
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                     2 4       6 4      12 8       12 6
Grnss natinnal savinos/GlnP                    72        7 3      124        11 8
Current account balance/GDP                   -15 1     -9 7       -6 2      -7.2     Domestic
Interest navmentslGlnP                         18        32    1     9        18R     Savins                        Investment
Total dehtmGmP                                4nR       707       71 7       77 5     Saving
Total debt service/exoorts                    152       26.6       9.7        93
Present value nof drht/GrlP                                       437        440
Present value of debt/escorts                                    120.0      1242
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
faveraoe annual orowthl
c.nP                                  79       31        5 7       51         52                    Senegal
GNP Der caDita                       -0 1      06        3.0       2.5        2 5                   Low-income group
Fynnrts of nods and servines          30         0       58        fin        91
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999      Growth ofinvestmentandGOP(%)
(,Y of GDPI                                                                           20
Anririltijr                                   73 7      194       174        17 9     20-
Industrv                                      150       188       24 2      25.3      10           _
Manijfarti:rino                              10n4     13 3       158       187
Services                                      614       619       584        569      -1                 go   97   98   99
Private rnnsimnotnn                           so3       78n       789        76 f    - 20
General aovernmentconsumDtion                 173       156       10.3       108                      GDI       C,GDP
Imnorts nf nonds and servines                 40 n      32 1      387        389
(averaoe annual arowtht                   1197989  1989-99        1995      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%J
Anrimilture                                     18       15        -32       8f0     Is
Indiustrv                                      47        41        R5         8i3    10A
Manufacturina                                 4 6      3 4        7.8       4 9
Servines                                       30        33        7 fi       4 5     5
Private consumotion                            2.2       30        6.0        5.7  Os
General nnvrrnmomnt onnge,mntinn               3 4       n0 5       1 4       23                  s9 98   97   se   99
Gross domestic investment                      41        48       17.6        1 7     . _
lmnrnrts of noods and servines                 1 7       11       10n         44                -Exports    -l Imports
Grnss natinnal nrndunt                         72        34        5 8        5 3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-arout averace If data are missina the diamond will
he innnmnlete
- 71 -



Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            40
Consumer prices                                 9.7      0.4        1.1      2.0      30
Implicit GDP deflator                           9.7      0.9        1.9      2.2      20
Government finance                                                                    I0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    0
Current revenue                                18.4     17.8       17.4      17.3    -10D     94   95    9       97    98
Current budget balance                                  -0.1        5.8      5.0                    GOP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -2.9        -2.6     -3.3
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999       Export and import levels (USS mtill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            478      759        971       985      1,0
Groundnuts                                     ..      150        54        56
Fish                                           ..       70        25        31             *    *     *    *    *
Manufactures                                   ..      167       265       281
Total imports (cif)                              ..   1,134      1,376     1,493
Food                                                   334       311       325       sW
Fuel and energy                   ,          ,         155        179      193
Capital goods                                          173       211       245 o
ExDort Drice index (1995=100)                    ..      104       116       118
lmDort Dnce index (1995=100)                     ..      83         99       102                    Exports       n Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100i                        ..      127       116       115
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                  816    1,255       1,546    1,567       o
Imports of goodsand services                  1,104    1,514      1,814    1,869
Resource balance                              -288      -260      -268      -302      -3
Net income                                      -79     -205       -76       -72
Net current transfers                           -48      16         54        28      -.
Current account balance                        415      -448      -290      -346
Financing items (net)                          265      543        315       380
Changes in net reserves                        150       -95       -25       -34     r1
Memo:
Reserves includina oold fUSS millions)          34       31        428       449
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)              2127    319.0       590.0    615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millionsl                                                               '        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,122    3,269     3,324     3,720
IBRD                                          41       94          9         4
IDA                                           88      592      1,448     1,313                   F: 63   :20 A: 4
Total debt service                             135      359        163       158     |          8_                     
IBRD                                           6    18             8         5                          B        : 1,313
IDA                                            1        6         18        22
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                               58      270        252       221
Official creditors                           359      573        409       348
Private creditors                             47       -51       -27       -28
Foreign direct investment                      9        0         40       169             D: 1,276              c 199
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0       -39
World Bank program
Commitments                                   32       22        233       128      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Dsbursements                                  27       49        108        49      B - IDA    DJ - Other multilateral  F- Private
Principalrepayments                            3       11         16        17    |C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Net flows                                     25       38         93        32
Interest payments                              4       13         10        10
Net transfers                                 21       25         82        22
Development Economics                                                                                                   9112/00
- 72 -



Additional
Annex 11
Lettre de politique sectorielle
de I'Hydraulique Urbaine et
de I'Assainissement
Republique du Sin6gal
Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
Ministere de   I'Energie et de                   Ministare de I'Economie et
I'Hydraulique                                   des Finances
Les Ministres
Al Monsieur James WOLFENSOHN
President de la Banque Mondiale
1818, H. Street N.W.
WASHINGTON
Monsieur le President,
Nous voudrions par la presente vous indiquer les lignes directrices de la deuxieme lettre de politique
sectorielle qui reflete la vision du Gouvemement du Senegal sur 1'evolution du secteur de I'hydraulique
urbaine et de l'assainissement.
Cette lettre de politique sectorielle complete et actualise celle de 1995 en tenant compte notamment de 1'
evolution institutionnelle previsible du secteur suite a la decision du Gouvemement de faire appel au
secteur prive pour la realisation des investissements necessaires a l'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable
a long terme de Dakar.
I.        BILAN DE L'EXECUTION DE LA PREMIERE LETTRE DE POLITIOUE
SECTORIELLE
En 1995, le Gouvemrnement de la Republique du Sen6gal avait elabore une strategie sectorielle reposant
sur deux axes principaux:
- 73 -



-      Une reforme institutionnelle visant la viabilit6 financiere du secteur et l'implication du secteur
priv6 dans la gestion de 1'eau;
-      La mise en ceuvre d'un important programme d'investissements a travers le <( Projet Sectoriel
Eau )> en vue de limiter le deficit de la production d'eau potable et d'ameliorer le service rendu aux
usagers.
La mise en ceuvre de cette strat6gie s'est traduite par les r6sultats suivants:
Eclatement de 1'ex-SONEES en trois entites fonctionnelles depuis 1996:
a)     La Societe Nationale des Eaux du Senegal (SONES) cr66e en Avril 1995 est chargee de la
gestion du patrimoine de l'hydraulique urbaine (mise en valeur, amortissement et service de la dette,
programnimation et maftrise d'ouvrage des investissements, contr6le de la qualite de 1'exploitation,
sensibilisation du public);
b)     La Senegalaise Des Eaux (SDE) operationnelle depuis Avril 1996 est charg6e de l'exploitation
et de l'entretien de l'infrastructure et du materiel d'exploitation, d'assurer le renouvellement du materiel
d'exploitation ainsi que d'une partie du reseau de distribution d'eau potable. Elle s'occupe 6galement du
recouvrement des factures d'eau et de la surtaxe   assainissement >);
c)     L'Office National de l'Assainissement du S6negal (ONAS) est charge de la maitrise d'ouvrage
des travaux d'assainissement ainsi que de 1'exploitation et de la maintenance des ouvrages d'
assainissement.
*      Demarrage effectif des travaux du projet sectoriel eau qui ont pennis de mobiliser en 1999 une
production suppl6mentaire de 60 000 m3)j au profit de la r6gion de Dakar.
*      Mise en ceuvre des mesures d'accompagnement li6es a une meilleure gestion des ressources en
eau et le renforcement des capacites de gestion et de planification du secteur par l'ONAS et la SONES.
*      Augmentation reguliere de l'ordre de 3 % des tarifs de l'eau depuis juillet 1995 dans le cadre de
la recherche de l'objectif d'equilibre financier du sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine(eau potable) en
2003.
Paiement regulier des factures d'eau de l'Administation dans le delai de 4 mois et demarrage
d'une etude diagnostic visant la reduction des consommations d'eau des administrations conformement
au plan d'actions retenu a cet effet .
*      Mise en couvre effective d'une politique de reduction de l'usage d'eau potable pour l'irrigation
qui s'est traduite par une diminution de 50 % des consommations passant de 24 000 m3/j en 1995
(avant la reforme) a 10 500 m3/j en 1998. L'objectif fixe de 14 000 m3fj en 1999 a ete ainsi anticipe
grace aux actions menees par la Senegalaise Des Eaux (lutte contre les fraudes, fPaturation mensuelle
etc ... ) et a la decision de l'Etat de decLasser les forages de Beer Ihialane au profit des maraichers.
Cependant, en depit des bons resultats obtenus par cette r6forme et des investissements consentis dans le
Projet Sectoriel Eau, le secteur continuera a moyen et a long terme d'etre confronte aux contraintes
suivantes:
- 74 -



-      D6ficit persistant de I'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable de Dakar dont le niveau atteindra 30
000 m3/j des 2001 en saison de pointe;
-      Absence d'une visibilite A moyen ou A long terme sur l'evolution institutionnelle du secteur,
notammnent en ce qui conceme la regulation, la programmation et la mise en ceuvre des investissements
necessaires au developpement du secteur;
-      Niveaux de services d'assainissement moyens A mediocres surtout dans les zones peri-urbaines
de la region de Dakar avec les risques subsequents sur 1'environnement et la sante des populations;
-      Viabilite financiere de l'ONAS dont les ressources tirees de la redevance assainissement ne lui
permettent pas de faire face A ses couits d'operation et encore moins d'assurer le renouvellement des
infrastructures;
-      Tension persistante sur la ressource en eau principale sur laquelle la ville de Dakar devra
compter A l'avenir (Lac de Guiers) compte tenu des usages multiples possibles et des risques
environnementaux pesant sur la ressource (pollution, degradation des digues de protection etc ... ).
-      Absence de ressources alternatives (eau brute du Lac de Guiers et/ou eaux usees traitees) a 1'
eau potable utilisee pour l'irrigation avec pour consequences la poursuite de la delivrance de quantites
d'eau potable pour les maraichers de la region de Dakar A un tarif preferentiel;
-      Risques environnementaux lies A la poursuite de la surexploitation des nappes du Cap Vert.
I.   STRATEGIE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR
Face a ces contraintes, le Gouvemement a adopte les orientations strategiques suivantes
1)     Gestion des ressources en eau
II s'agira de finaliser la politique de gestion integree des ressources en eau par:
0      La mise en cruvre d'un cadre institutionnel adequat pour une gestion rationnelle et coherente
des ressources en eau. C'est ainsi qu'une etude institutiormelle a e  menee et a permis de clarifier les
roles et responsabilites des differents acteurs dont notamment le SGPRE, le Conseil Superieur de l'Eau
(CSE), 1'OMVS dans la gestion des ressources en eau en general et du lac de Guiers en particulier. La
mise en oeuvre de l'ensemble des reconmnandations de l'etude et du Conseil Superieur de l'Eau
devraient penrettre au SGPRE de remplir sa mission de maniere satisfaisante;
0       Le renforcement du SGPRE afm de lui permettre de jouer son role de suivi, de police et de
regulation des eaux. A cet effet, le Gouvemement mettra en ceuvre un plan d'actions visant (i) a
ameliorer le niveau de collecte de la taxe d'exhaure (ii) A mobiliser effectivement cette taxe d'exhaure et
le Fonds National de l'Hydraulique au profit des services de gestion des ressources en eau et de 1'
hydraulique rurale, (iii) a favoriser la mobilisation de ressources alternatives d'eau au profit des
maraichers.
- 75 -



0      La poursuite des etudes visant une meilleure connaissance des ressources en eau du pays;
0      La protection des ressources en eau souterraine  et des ressources en eau de surface en
procedant A la deconnexion progressive des forages de Dakar, de Pout et de Sebikotane et ceux du
Littoral Nord et en mettant en ceuvre un plan de gestion du lac de Guiers;
0      La mise a disposition du SGPRE des outils de planification et de modelisation appropri6s pour
une gestion integree des ressources en eau.
2) Sous-secteur de l'Hvdraulicue urbaine
0      La lutte contre la pauvrete, le maintien et le renforcement de l'autonomie d6cisionnelle et
financiere du sous-secteur;
0      La continuite de la gestion de l'exploitation du sous-secteur par un operateur prive;
0      Le recours au secteur prive pour le financement des investissements de production consideres
comme appartenant au secteur marchand. Ces investissements sont necessaires a la satisfaction de la
demande en eau a moyen et long ternes;
0       Le recours aux fonds concessionnels pour les investissements necessaires en vue de permettre
l'acces A l'eau potable aux populations defavorisees des zones periurbaines des grands centres urbains
et des centres secondaires, ceci etant considere comme faisant partie des extemalites du sous-secteur.
L'objectif vise sera un taux d'acces a l'eau potable en milieu urbain de 85 % a I'an 2005. Cette
approche passera par le renforcement et l'extension du r6seau de distribution de Dakar et des centres
secondaires afin de desservir les populations des zones periurbaines, le transfert progressif de certains
centres secondaires ruraux dont les populations depassent 10 000 habitants dans le perimetre affemme de
la SDE, apres mise A niveau des installations;
0      La mise en place d'un r6gulateur du sous-secteur dans le cadre de la commission de regulation
multi-sectorielle d6cidee par le Gouvemement. Une etude ultrieure permettra de pr6ciser les fonctions
et r6les du regulateur notamment dans le cadre institutionnel actuel. Cette etude s'appesantira egalement
sur la nouvelle repartition des r6les entre les differents intervenants (Etat, SONES, secteur prive);
0      La realisation d'une 6tude institutionnelle pour eclairer le Gouvemement sur le meilleur choix
entre les differentes options possibles de reforme de deuxieme generation A envisager A la fin du contrat
d'affermage;
0      La mise en place d'une politique tarifaire basee sur le recouvrement des coufts, la garantie de 1'
acces aux services d'eau et d'assainissement pour les populations les plus demunies et une politique
coherente de gestion de la demande en eau et de protection de l'environnement. Cette approche sera
concr6tisee par l'application d'une nouvelle grille tarifaire <eau et assainissement>> qui pennettra de
simplifier la structure tarifaire et d'appliquer les augmentations tarifaires sur les differentes tranches
selon des coefficients d6termin6s;
0      L'atteinte de l'equilibre financier du sous-secteur en 2003 en tenant compte de l'impact des
investissements finances par le secteur prive et sur fonds concessionnels;
- 76 -



0      L'actualisation et la poursuite du plan d'actions de r6duction des consommations des
administrations, de reduction des volumes d'eau consommes pour l'irrigation et de paiement a bonne
date des factures d'eau des administrations;
0      Pour I'alimentation en eau des zones maraicheres, le Gouvemement appliquera la politique
suivante:
0      Deconnexion progressive des forages de Dakar dont essentiellement les forages de Thiaroye,
des que la nouvelle eau sera disponible et sous reserve des conclusions d'une etude technico-economique
a mener et qui devra egalement verifier l'impact de l'arret de ces forages sur la remontee de la nappe
dans la zone de Pikine;
0      Poursuite et approfondissement de la politique visant a rendre les zones maraich6res plus
autonomes en matiere d'alimentation en eau et a adopter des systemes d'irrigation plus economes en eau
0      Application effective de la tarification au prix moyen a tous les maraichers qui voudront
continuer a s'approvisionner sur le systeme AEP alors que d'autres ressources altematives (forages,
retenues collinaires etc...) seront disponibles.
3) Sous-secteur de I'assainissement
0      L'amelioration des services dans les zones dotees de reseaux collectifs d'assainissement;
0      La promotion et le developpement de  systemes altematifs et appropries d'assainissement
autonome et semi-collectifs dans les quartiers periurbains tout en favorisant la creation d'emplois et le
developpement de petites entreprises;
0      La definition et la mise en  euvre d'une strategie specifique pour la gestion des eaux de
drainage. Cette strategie sera mise en ceuvre a l'horizon 2003 et permettra de preciser les r6les et les
responsabilit6s de l'Etat, de l'ONAS et des collectivites locales tant en ce qui conceme la propriete du
patrimoine, la conception, la realisation et le financement des investissements ainsi que l'exploitation
des ouvrages de drainage et le financement des charges de fonctionnement liees a ces ouvrages;
0      La mise en place  d'un cadre institutionnel approprie garantissant la viabilite financiere du
sous-secteur de l'assainissement urbain; il y aura lieu de rechercher les voies et moyens de renforcer
l'ONAS et de prevoir son evolution statutaire afin qu'il joue pleinement son r6le de maitrise d'ouvrage
(planification et contr6le de la realisation des investissements, gestion de la dette ...). I1 s'agira
egalement dans le cadre d'une etude institutionnelle de definir le cadre institutionnel approprie (Societ
Nationale, Office plus autonome, Fusion avec l'eau potable a l'horizon 2006 etc..) pour resoudre les
probl&mes d'assainissement de facon durable. Dans ce contexte, les actions a mener sont les suivantes:
-      La mise en oeuvre de la strat-gie nationale d'assainissement liquide deja validee par le
Gouvernement;
-      La validation de I'etude sur la viabilite a long terme de l'ONAS qui recommande
notamment I'augmentation de ses ressources (notamment celles generees par le secteur) , le
developpement du partenariat avec le secteur prive et l'evolution institutionnelle de l'ONAS;
- 77 -



-      L'application de la grille tarifaire recommand6e pour l'assainissement, sa coordination avec la
grille pour l'eau potable et la r6vision de la redevance d'assainissement en tenant compte de la capacite
et de la volonte des usagers a payer;
-      Le developpement du partenariat avec la petite entreprise priv6e pour r6pondre de maniere
adequate ai la demande de services d'assainissement dans les zones urbaines, periurbaines.
En attendant la mise en oeuvre effective de la reforme de l'ONAS, le Gouvemement lui a accorde une
derogation au code des marches publics qui devrait lui permettre de realiser de maniere efficace les
investissements a court terme identifies dans le sous-secteur.
III.    PROGRAMME DE DEVELOPPEMENT A MOYEN ET LONG TERME DU
SECTEUR
Le Gouvemement du Senegal mettra en ceuvre cette nouvelle strategie a travers divers programmes de
d6veloppement et des plans d'actions precisant les options retenues aux plans institutionnel et financier.
Le Principal progranmme conceme le Projet Sectoriel Eau a Long Terme.
L'objectif de developpement du projet est la lutte contre la pauvrete, le maintien et le renforcement de I'
autonomie decisionnelle et financiere du secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine et de l'assainissement. En
dehors de ce projet, d'autres actions visant le meme objectif sont egalement programm6es par le
Gouvemement dont notamment le projet d'alimentation en eau potable de 11 villes regionales.
Le Projet Sectoriel Eau a Long Terme vise les objectifs suivants, dans la periode 2000 a 2006:
1)     Satisfaire les besoins en eau de la ville de Dakar pour les dix prochaines annees;
2)     Ameliorer les conditions sanitaires des populations urbaines et periurbaines, en particulier
celles vivant dans les zones non assainies;
3)     Assurer la protection des ressources en eau;
4)     Favoriser l'accas a des services satisfaisants d'eau potable et d'assainissement aux populations
des zones urbaines, periurbaines et des gros centres de l'int6rieur par le renforcement des capacites des
petites entreprises privees et communautaires a delivrer ces services;
5)     Renforcer les capacites  de gestion, de planification, de programmation et de suivi des
programmes d'eau et d'assainissement par les organismes publics.
3.1- Production d'eau potable
Pour satisfaire la demande en eau de la r6gion de Dakar sur la periode allant de 2001 a 2011, le
Gouvemement du Senegal a retenu l'option de prolongement de la conduite du Projet Sectoriel Eau
entre Gu6oul et Keur Momar Sarr (70 kms) et la construction d'une station de traitement de 130 000
m3/j, en deux phases, a Keur Momar Sarr.
La station de traitement aura une capacite initiale de 65.000 m3/j, en 2003 et est prevue de monter a
- 78 -



130.000 m3/j entre 2006 et 2007. Elle sera construite et financee par le secteur prive sous forme de
DBF (Design, Build, Finance) et sera mise a disposition de la SDE, pour exploitation, dans le cadre du
contrat d'afferznage en cours.
L'option pour l'approvisiomnement en eau potable de la region de Dakar au dela de 2010 reste ouverte
entre les solutions de type canal, conduites ou dessalement.
3.2 - Distribution d'eau Dotable
I1 s'agira de mener des actions visant a:
L'amelioration du taux de desserte en eau des populations des villes de Dakar, des centres
secondaires et des centres ruraux a transferer par l'extension des reseaux tertiaires de distribution et la
realisation de branchements sociaux et de bomes fontaines;
La restructuration et la r6habilitation des reseaux de distribution.
3.3 - Assainissement
Les objectifs assignes a ce sous-secteur concement trois aspects importants pour l'amelioration de la
qualite de l'environnement et la sante des populations urbaines et rurales:
L'augmentation de la desselte des populations en ouvrages d'assainissement collectif et
autonome;
*      La prise en charge correcte des rejets d'eaux usees produits actuellement et suite A la mise en
ceuvre du volet production d'eau potable;
La protection de 1'environnement urbain par le traitement des eaux residuaires et des matieres
de vidange et a long terme par l'epuration avant rejet vers la mer des eaux vannes et menageres.
3.4 - Gestion des ressources en eau
Les actions envisagees dans ce domaine se situent dans le prolongement des etudes entreprises dans le
cadre du Projet Sectoriel Eau (PSE) en cours et visent a:
*      Assurer la disponibilite en eau dans le lac de Guiers qui constitue l'une des reserves les plus
importantes d'eau douce du Senegal et a en preserver la qualite;
*      Ameliorer la connaissance de la nappe de la bordure sedimentaire;
*      Prot6ger la reserve d'eau douce de la ville de Saint-Louis.
3.5 - Renforcement des caDacites
Cette composante a pour objectifs (i) d'ameliorer 1'efficacite des services publics impliques dans le
secteur de 1'eau, de I'assainissement et de 1'environmement (ii) d'adapter le cadre institutionnel existant
aux besoins futurs en matiere de regulation (iii) de developper les capacites des communautes et des
associations de base a delivrer les services appropries d'eau et d'assainissement
- 79-



3.6 - Plan de zestion environnemnentale
Cette composante permettra de mieux identifier les actions a mener pour (i) la definition des relations
hydrauliques entre le lac de Guiers et la cuvette du Ndiael en vue de sa realimentation et de sa
rehabilitation, (ii) la rehabilitation de la baie de Hann, (iii) la realisation de 1'etude d'impact
environnemental du plan de gestion du lac de Guiers, (iv) le renforcement des capacites du Ministere
de 1'environnement a faire des revues environnementales.
- 80 -



ANNEXE
PLAN D'ACTIONS
Ministere de I'Energie                                                             Ministere de t'Economie
et de I'Hydraulique                                                                   et des Finances
Plan d'actions de la Lettre de PolitiQue Sectorielle
N     Produit attendu    No                 Activites               Date debut      Date fin      Responsable
I    Le SGPRE dote       1.1    Actualisation du fichier des         01/2001       03/2001          SGPRE
de moyens                 redevables de la taxe d'exhaure
fnanciers          1.2    Sensibilisation des redevables       04/2001        07/2001         SGPRE
ad6quats pour lui    1.3    Recrutement d'unprestataire pour la  08/2001      10/2001        MEHIMEF
permettre de              facturation et le recouvrement
jouer son r6le     1.4    Textes r6glementaires sur la cle de   11/2001       12/2001        MEH/MEF
rdpartition e la gestion des fonds
collectes
2    La Cellule de       2.1    Semnuaire de conotation             01/2001        01/2001         SGPRE
Gestion du lac de    2.2    Arret inteministeriel de cr6ation de  02/2001     03/2001        MEH/ME
.Guiers                   la Celule de gestion
op6rationnelle     2.3   Installation de la Cellule            04/2001        06/2001          MEH
2.4    Fonctiomest Cellule                  07/2001        12V2006         SGPRE
3    Etude               3.1    Elaboration des TDR de l'etude       02/2001        05/2001         SONES
institutionnelle   3.2    S6lection dcu Consultant             06/2001        09/2001          DHA
sur l'evolution du    3.3    Realisation de 1'etude            10/2001        08/2002        Consultant
sous-secteur de 1'    3.4    Approbation de l'etude            09/2002        12/2002      Gouvemement
Hydraulique
Urbaine realis6e
4    Etude               4.1    Validation 6tude de viabilite        02/2001        0212001      Gouvernernent
institutionnelle   4.2    Elaboration des TDR                  0212001        05/2001       DHA/ONAS
sur l'evolution du    4.3    S6lection du Consultant           06/2001        09/2001          DHA
sous-secteur       4.4    R6alisation de 1'etude               10/2001        08/2002        Consultant
assainissement     4.5    Approbation de l'etude               09/2002        12/2002      Gouvemnement
r6alis6e y
compris la
gestion des eaux
de drainage
5    Nouvelle grille     5.1    Decision du Gouvemement sur le       01/2001        06/2001      Gouvemement
tarifaire eau et          taux de TVA harmonis6
assainissement     5.2    Approbation du d6cret sur la         07/2001        10/2001          PR/PM
appliquee                 nouvelle grille
5.3    Application nouvelle grille          01/2002           -             SDE
N     Produit atteodu    No                 Activltes               Date debut      Date fin      Responsable
0
-81-



6    Coiuommaions       6.1    RdaMiaion des tavam de               01/2001        12/2001         SONES
d'eau des                r6&abilitaticn dus lea bksnts
admniinsations     6.2   administretib                        06/2001        06/2001          MEF
r6duites                  Nominations a Monsieur Eau o au
durablement de     6.3   sein des administrations             07/2001        12/2001          MEF
10 000 n3/J               Cot*aualisation de la
6.4    maintenace avec le sectur priv6     0112002        12/2006         SONES
Mnitoring
7    Consomiations       7.1    D6comexien des forages de           01/2003        12/2003      SONES/SDE
d'eau pour 1'             Thiaroye et de Pout-Sebikotne
irrigation         7.2    D6onneion patiolle des fongags do   01/2004        12/2006         SONES
maintenues                Littoral Nord
dumblenmet & un    7.3    Etude d'imtact de ['wret des foraes  01/2001       12/001       SONES/SGPR
niveau inferieur i        de Tliaroye                                                          E
10 700 n3/j        7.4    PowusitepoLitiqe derestiotion t     01/2001        12/2006
de coadrOle                                                         SDE
7.5    Transfertpatiel des forages aux     01/2003        12/2003
marahers                                                        DHA/SONES
7.6    Sensibilcsat icpour la g6rilisation  06/2001       12/2003         SOPRE
du goutte & goutte                                              DHA/SONES
- 82-



Additional
Annex 12
The Institutional Reform of the Urban Water Sector in Senegal
Accomplishments after four years of public-private partnership (PSP)
under an enhanced lease arrangement
1. INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES 1960-1996
From 1960 to 1971, public water distribution service in urban centers was handled by theCompagnie
Generale des Eaux du S&nggal, an affiliate of CGE France, under a lease agreement. In 1971, the public
utility was nationalized. A national company - the Societe Nationale des Eaux du Senegal (SONEES) --
was created under the same leasing arrangement. In 1983, under the Eleven Cities Project financed by IDA
and AFD, a new institutional reform was implemented based on the conclusions of a study carried out by
the firm IDET-CEGOS. This reform awarded SONEES the public utility concession, strengthened its
managerial autonomy and granted it true financial autonomy.
2. MAIN ISSUES AND CHALLENGES
Results achieved by SONEES have been unsatisfactory despite its success in providing connections to
low-income households and expanding the distribution network. This relative success concealed several
serious problems:
* serious cash flow shortages leading to the accumulation of arrears vis-a-vis its suppliers, in particular
the Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SENELEC);
*  stagnation of the volume of water sold due to the chronic deficit in Dakar's water supply;
* non-payment by the Government and the municipalities of their water bills;
*  insufficient overall capacity of the network due to aging of the pipes.
The most serious challenge facing SONEES was the water shortage in Dakar, with all the disadvantages
this implied for its population, industry, and its own financial viability considering that Dakar represents
over 60% of the sector's activity. The strategy to redress this deficit was designed in two stages:
* an initial short-term phase aiming at to reduce the capacity deficit by providing 59,000 m3/day. This
phase is financed essentialy by donors;
*  a second, so-called long-term phase intended to meetthe capital's needs through year 2030.
Since the volume of investment required exceeded resources, the GOS appealed to its traditional
development partners with whom it agreed to reform the sector before embarking on large-scale
investments.
3. NEW INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR WATER AND SANITATION
A change in the institutional framework was therefore envisaged, involving a private professional partner,
to allow the subsector to once again experience growth and profitability with a view to:
- 83 -



* improving water supply and sanitation services to the public;
* faster expansion of service in unserved neighborhoods;
* better control of costs, i.e., of the price/m3 of water billed to the customers;
* guaranteed and growing fiscal inflows for the Government.
Under the new institutional framework as of April 1996, three entities are responsible for managing the
urban water supply subsector with oversight from Government: (i) Societe Nationale des Eaux du S6negal
(SONES), a state holding company; (ii) Senegalaise des Eaux (SDE), a private operating company under a
enhanced lease arrangement; (iii) Office Nationale d'Assainissement ONAS). Aside from the obligations
associated with the proper operation of a public utility, the enhanced lease contract imposes on the fermier
a certain number of obligations with respect to renewal works associated with contractual performance
objectives (reduction in the amount of unaccounted-for water, increase of service quality, etc.).
SDE's involvement in investments relates to the following items:
WORKS TO BE PERFORMED                      ENTITY RESPONSIBLE
Renewal of network and house connections            SDE
17 km/year in 100 mm cast iron pipe equivalent
6,000 connections/year
14,000 meters/year
Renewal of electromechanical equipment             SDE
equipment with a value below 15 million CFAF,
and with a lifespan up to 10 years
Network rehabilitation (5-year program)            SONES
100 km of 100 mm cast iron pipe equivalent
30,000 connections
4. RESULTS OBTAINED AFTER THREE YEARS OF PSP
4.1. Technical
4.1.1 Production At the time service was taken over, production infrastructure was ill equipped and
aging, limiting Dakar's water supply to 190,000 m3/day. SDE made great efforts to re-equip wells,
making it possible to boost production to 205,000 m3/day.
4.1.2 Managing water shortage in Dakar Effective management of Dakar's water deficit made it
possible to mobilize:
* an additional 6,000 m3/day over 1997;
* an additional 5,000 m3/day over 1996;
* an additional 10,000 m3/day over 1995.
Efficient management of the network made it possible to:
* establish a map of water availability in the network, for staff use;
* supply water to all neighborhoods at least once a day;
* avoid collective claims associated with the lack of water.
- 84-



4.1.3 Network performance
Distribution network performance has increased satisfactorily due to the implementation of contractual
works and to more reliable billing. The operator acquired two electronic leak detection systems, which
made it possible to save: 3,900 m3/day in 1996, and 5,760 m3/day in 1997. Significant improvement has
been noted, especially with regards to response time for leaks repairs which decreased from 52 hours to 24
hours in Dakar. Unaccounted-for-water decreased from 1996 to 2000, although the pressure increase
generated by the commissioning of additional production capacity in 1999 resulted in a 30% increase of
pipe breaks.
1995      1996       1997      1998      1999       2000      2002
UFW       31.8%      30.5%     28.0%      25.6%     26.0%     24.0%      15%
(contractual target value)
4.1.4 Contractual works
SONES has experienced delays in implementing the distribution sub-component (extensions, rehabilitation,
individual connections, water meters) which affected the water sector performance negatively and held
water sales back. This situation created major cash-flow problems for SDE, which made a financial claim
to GOS and submitted a request to renegotiate the contractual UFW target values. This was settled in
November 1998. The program of contractual works, as defined in the lease contract is being carried out
satisfactorily. The following results have been obtained as of December 31, 1998:
Contractual works  Cum. objective     Cum. implementation     Implementation rate
1996-1999          1996-1999
Piping (km)        68                 64                       84.16%
Connections (units)  24,000           16,600                  97.09%
Meters (units)     56,000             54,000                   106.8%
4.1.5 GIS. In order to improve network management, the private operator acquired a geographic
information system (GIS); its performance can be summarized as follows, after 2.5 years:
-  Total map area to be digitized:  56,000 ha
* Total digitized: 55,500 ha
*  Implementation rate: 99.1%
4.2. Water quality
Thanks to efforts in maintaining adequate chlorine levels at all points in the network, water quality
improved significantly. Results from 1998 are summarized in the following table:
Objectives         Results             Rate (%)
1. Bacteriological
*     # of samples analyzed (units)  6,972             7,309                 104
*      % of potable samples       96%                  95.4%                99.4
2. Chemical
*     # of samples                2,316                2,205                 95.2
*      % of samples meeting standards 96%              97.2%                 101,2%
- 85-



Rehabilitation of chlorination stations, which is planned under the WTP, will make it possible to further
maintain and improve the bacteriological quality of the distributed water.
4.3 Billing and Recovery
4.3.1 Reorganized customer management
Customer satisfaction has improved through concrete measures, the most important of which are:
* Modernization of agency offices
With the installation of a customer management software, there has been a virtual revolution in agency
offices. The progressive modernization of these agencies has improved conditions for customers as
well as employees.
The offices of PlateaulM6dina, Sicap/Liberte, Front de Terre, Gu6diawaye 1, Parcelles Assainies, Yoff
and Grand-Dakar have completely changed their look. SDE's other agencies will follow.
At agencies equipped with the customer management software, the quality of service has improved
noticeably.  The processing of various transactions is faster due to the use of this improved
management tool. Waiting lines at peak periods are better managed through the use of pre-numbered
tickets and the availability of additional service windows for older persons.
* Check Drop boxes
Payment drop boxes are open 24 hours a day at the modernized agencies in Dakar equipped with
customer management software. The customer needs only to drop the proper amount payment check,
stapled to the stub, into the appropriate box. A receipt is promptly delivered to the customers home.
* Off-site payment
In addition, clients served by modernized agencies can now pay bills at any other agency equipped with
customer software.
4.3.2 Billing and recovery
4.3.2.1 Private customers
The contractual target values of billing efficiency have been met and trends in recovery rates are as follows:
Year                  Target               Results
(as defined in the
Lease Contract)
1995                 --                   92.2%
1996                 95%                  90%
1997                 96%                   96%
1998                 97%                  97%
1999                  98%                 98.7%
4.3.2.2. Central Government and Municipalities
The Senegalese administration generally adheres to the principle of on-time payment and a genuine political
will has been noted to pay the Administrations biUs promptly. This has yielded the fbllowing results:
*     1996: 100% rate of payment
*     1997: 100% rate of payment
*     1998: 97.7% rate of payment
Municipalities are now treated like regular customers, and a cut-off policy has been implemented by SDE
that already is curbing wastage and rationalizing consumption. (see table below). Difficulties encountered
tend to be at the level of the Municipalities, which were not ready for the reform effort. GOS agreed to
- 86 -



settle Municipalities' arrears for 1996 and 1997, totaling one billion CFAF.
1996         1997          1998          Reduction
Volume billed (m3)           2,180,000     1,960,000    870,000       60%
Amount (CFAF)                726,650,000   650,710,000   349,550,000   51.9%
There has thus been a 60% drop in consumption on the part of the municipalities, which translates into a
51.9% reduction in their bill.
4.3.3  Trends in the number of subscribers
The number of subscribers rose from 204,000 in 1995 to more than 286,000 in 1999, with an overall
turnover (SONES and ONAS fees combined) which went from 23.5 billion CFAF in 1996 to 29.0 billion
CFAF in 1999.
4.4. Acquisition of modern management tools
In addition to customer management software, SDE gradually introduced the following management tools:
* cost accounting software;
* budget monitoring software;
* software for monitoring purchases and stocks;
* cash management software
These management tools have increased SDE's efficiency. For example, the operator's FY 1999 accounts
were closed on February 1, 2000, whereas this operation occurred each year in June under the former
SONEES.
4.5. Training
SDE has provided training to 1,300 employees. The main themes include skills upgrading for technical and
commercial staff, customer relations, quality of service, literacy, etc. Efforts made so far are summarized
as follows:
Number of agents trained Number of hours of training  Training cost
1996      644                     25,008                        180 million CFAF
1997      1,110                   57,967                       420 million CFAF
1998      1,148                   49,501                        170 million CFAF
4.6.   Customer satisfaction survey
A survey undertaken in May/June 1998 of 1,500 customers in the neighborhoods of Sicap-Liberte,
Guediawaye, Grand-Dakar and Pikine, showed a 83% customer satisfaction rating regarding SDE's quality
of service.
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 13
Projected Water Demand and Planned Capacity Investments
Justification of Bulk Water Supply Additional Capacity
Capacity to be built under a Design Build Finance (DBF) arrangement
1.    The demand study validated during the project appraisal mission is based on a study on the demand
curve for the Dakar area which was carried out by IFC in 1998.
2.    The production capacity for Ngnith, Kelle-Kebemer, Litoral Nord and the Dakar area is shown
below in the summary table no.1 for the period 2000-2008. In order to establish the available volume of
water for distribution in Dakar, withdrawals from the transmission main (ALG) and the overall technical
performance of the water distribution network of the Dakar area were taken into consideration. The daily
peak demand was calculated with a peak ratio of 1.24. On the basis of a demand increase in the Dakar
area, a capacity of 42,000 m3/day was retained for the treatment station of KMS. A sensitivity test, with a
peak ratio of 1.16 reveals that the same peak capacity will occur two years later than planned.
3.    A number of boreholes will have to be closed, as an environmental health measure (because of
nitrate and chloride pollution) as recommended at the seminar held in Saly Portudal in July 1998. This
program of closures affects part of the Paleocene formation at Sebikotane (12,600m3/day), Pout (2,000
m3/day) and the sandy formations at Thiaroye (7,300 m3/day), for a total capacity of 23,000 m3/day. This
capacity will be withdrawn from Dakar's potable water supply system as soon as the DBF would become
operational (2003). It should be noted that in order to avoid flooding of inhabited low-lying areas due to
the cessation of pumping, the boreholes in Thiaroye can only be closed if the transfer of water to market
gardeners becomes effective. The program of boreholes closures was examined in detail , and is the subject
of precise recommendations which are included in the Environment Management Plan.
4.    The capacity to be built by the operator of the DBF results from the need to respond to the deficit
in the sector. An examination of the demand curve shows that this capacity is about 65,000 m3/day
(including the closure of the boreholes) starting in 2003, and an additional 30,000 m3/day between 2006
and 2008. A summary of the data, confirmed during appraisal is given in the table below.
Project Demand/Deficit-Dakar Area     2003           2004           2005         2006
Total demand
(million m3/year)           74             77              80           82
Peak demand (m3/day)           213,000        220,000        228,000      236,000
Peak deficit (m3/day)         26,000          30,000         39,000       47,000
(dry season)
5.    The operator of the DBF will be asked to supply a capacity of 65,000 m3/day by 2003. The
- 88 -



decision to expand the plant to 135,000 m3/day will be communicated to the operator 12 months in
advance between 2006 and 2008 at the latest. The expansion is to be decided according to data available
during the period 2000-2003 and will be implemented between 2006 and 2008 or 2008 and 2010 if the
peak ratio of 1.16 is closer to reality.
6.    The policy of safeguarding groundwater resources against overexploitation will be maintained and
strengthened. Preference will be given to the use of surface water resources for additional capacity as
stipulated in the existing affermage contract. The penalty presently foreseen in the affermage contract for
the treatment plant of Ngnith only, will need to be amended.
7.    From 2003 onward, and regardless of the official program of borehole closures for environmental
reasons, the Government may decide to transfer some of those boreholes to market gardeners in order to
consolidate its policy of greater autonomy for market'gardeners and to mitigate any negative impact on the
sector's financial equilibrium that may result from the subsidized water tariff granted to market gardeners.
8.    Demand Management:  The project includes a demand management component, prepared in
collaboration with UNCHS-HABITAT, which aims to demonstrate the potential water conservation that
can achieved through water conservation technologies.
- 89 -



o



r   -1                  7P                  ~~~~~~~~/,   16                15                       li                       13                            I N- !  AGRI 
N ALGERIA
v   S                                  .N.                       ..                            M A U R I T A N I A                                h             F I
POodo,r
LONG TEM WATER                                                                     t\ ro         , ,,                                          t o------
SECOR              JE                                                  Dagana                                                                             MAURITANIA
0                     ~~~~~~~Ha6r6 0
Richard Toll                                                                                               MALI
Lac de Gumir -i.
O ,T _                           _                                                                             Galcrfa 0 o                 16-         SENG"_ijURIAY
SEC~~~~~~QTIE$, 111WNSA*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIUAG~~~~Thlon 0                                                    A/I~_BURKINA
<3  R S          N                      - Aa./<e                  ~~~~~~~~                            ~~~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~Lagba:r  'BISSW5AU       GUINEA  f     
NIAWVAL6<lCl                                              du,A                                  I AT          Matamn                                    C, \ *^, {     > -)lHANANj
N~~~~~~11ONAI. CAPITM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANT                                                     O' 
-     REGION  0UN                                        Louga     Mbeuleukh6 O                                         Ouro Sogui    _        ic6TE D'IVOIRE 0
_--.  IN4ATIOt.&4 LfiOUNO_                                                                                                                                          12     /           \
>   KC66emer       L oUG              Linguere         J    Rnru                                                              i
{ )) ~~~~~~Dahra   
TH  I E     6           Darou Mousi1
O       __         0                          Velingara o,    ~                       /eI~ 
CA  P        R T       Tivaone Piro                                   r '- s
DM~~L~*  S&b~ikhoukane                                                                       M6asby  M 
OMbour    FATICK                       KAOLACK                                                                                                        .
balwFOp <z . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lour-Escale                                                                0 Goudiri 
oal-FadioutO    ndi       aoTAMBACOUNDA 
14'                          ,o\4  OFoundig,gne    K~~~~~~~~~~NloafrneOKugel          Koumpentoum                 T                                                        4
Atlantic                          .ue Rp                                                J               Koussanar     Koiri Noaudf                                    M
Oce I  a n                                THE I c  6   c Nioro du Rip  ,                          km6acouncla                                                        MALI
GAMBIA~~~~                                                                                  ~~~ 0 GDma
.  1I j                                                                                                   bo_.        natfi K\
.130                                                                                    KOL D A           V6lingara 0  Medina 0Sim6ssh                                     0        Msia13
0 Dioulolou                             KGounos                                                                                   OMissira\ 130
ZIGUINCHOR                                    <Kolda                                                                  Mako          0
Bignona 0      Marsassum                                                                                                       Scaraya
Co sorich   >S&hiou 0      ,                                        r-       -----?                   Kedougou 0        Nafadii    ;
25    60    75    Oussouye    _-__
~              KMGUINEA - BISSAU                                                                                                                        G                                    12
me -12  iks mw   r*p+Sdfet6apiq tof v.o wb &.k12- icc
Th 1bmewi om dom*oions d m ter im                              ..    ,                                                                                G  U  I N  E A 
;o  shl aw ti mop danoth*, en 0 paadY6 71ewo&s                                                                             .
<   G~LP, w jt on  Ast subs of ety, or ow                                                                              I                                                                    _
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-~-
17' I?                   o16     -                  15F                                                 130                        120






t80                                                                                                      1 16
SENECGAL
LONG TERM WATER
SECTOR PROJECT
DAKAR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                  SENE% L R f.--.
PROJECT:                                                                                         0 Richard Toll
[ NE`RESEROR                                                        ,    SAINT-    L
WiL*E                                                  ,     ,        'L OUISLac de
M      REHAwnpATot,;TRATmEwTp Kwtz                                                            ,',. Gue
,!I    R TI AMETNAN  .  0  U                                       O    SELECTED CmES, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
EX*     a,  0 Ndiael     T               Ui                     (    REGION CAPITALS
WElINES
-164                          _      WEalFW                                       Sai-                                         (TretmentPlNnNof                                 AL                   16-
3 EAT Louis.>                                 e -       Sarr                   REGION BOUNDARIES
*       RA       KW                                   -oi                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAPIES
*    PIJWINSTATION                                                MC
@ t Louga | ~~~~~peline Keur Momaur Sarr-Gueouli
ATLANTIC                                                                        Gueoul    LOUGA
OCEAN
Hii                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 210    410    610    80
X  T H I E St/Mekhe       \           ~~~~~~Daroi Mousfi                                       0         6 
KILOMETERS
CAP-VERT,, jkO                                                             DIOURBEL   T                                                                  -  -----r - ALGERIA
Mamebsesroisi-                                                                                                                         *=;,.OOU6a   .SahrrzI.. 
Bambey       Diourbel       0                                                                 I
0      0           Diour6el  0Mbak              Kolo6ane0j
DA                                                                                                Mbar                       c          MAURITANIA
'>. ~~~EndiemaneO                                                    0    
Thiadiaye               /O~/a f                   
tbily o   O         {  ~~~FA  TI CK   Gosa                                                   1mar,0 SENEGALA/ r'
rn e eq        ~ 0es~ge tand   wodn&e&                          ur    Roff    IATHE. ^- zr
we  e  bnthisn  #*;, "epeeoFzT  w Ieek                                  0             atick                                                    CK           T A AiAfl  GA BIA-- - , ,       / BURKINA
>  e~, WY4W5rs Jges*s1.es                                                                                                                                      FGINAASO
8                                                                                                                                                        '\,    C6TED-1 &RE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(---~jCl  IOR



