                           BANGLADESH

Rural Transport Improvement Project
                                    Phase I




                           Report No. 106729
                                  JUNE 30, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                                             Report No.: 106729




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                 Bangladesh

             RURAL TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                    (CREDIT IDA-37910, IDA-37911)


                                June 30, 2016




IEG Financial, Private Sector, and Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                          ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka

2003                US$1.00                BDT58.20
2004                US$1.00                BDT58.65
2005                US$1.00                BDT60.98
2006                US$1.00                BDT66.58
2007                US$1.00                BDT69.10
2008                US$1.00                BDT68.55
2009                US$1.00                BDT68.90
2010                US$1.00                BDT68.97
2011                US$1.00                BDT70.82

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CE           Chief Engineer
DC           District Commissioner
DSM          Design and Supervision Management consulting Firms
EMIS         Environmental Management Information System
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FGD          Focus Groups Discussion
GoB          Government of Bangladesh
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ICRR         Implementation Completion Report Review
IDA          International Development Association
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
ISAP         Institutional Strengthening Action Program
LGED         Local Government Engineering Department
LGI          Local Government Institutions
LGIP         Local Government Improvement Plan
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
ORA          Operational Risk Assessment
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
RTIP         Rural Transport Improvement Project
RTIP II      Rural Transport Improvement Project II
                                                      iii



    RRMIMP I         Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project I
    RRMIMP II        Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project II
    TTL              Task Team Leader
    UP               Union Parishad
    UZ               Upazila


    Fiscal Year

    Government:              July 1 – June 30




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                            :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector & Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor- Dormond
Manager, IEG, Sustainable Development                               :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                        :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
                                                                    v



Contents


Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ vi
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ vi
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Summary ............................................................................................................................. x
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 2
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 4
4. Achievement of the Objectives ....................................................................................... 7
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 12
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 13
7. Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 14
8. Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 15
9. Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 16
10. Lessons........................................................................................................................ 17
References ......................................................................................................................... 18
Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet.......................................................................................... 19
Appendix B. List of Persons Met ...................................................................................... 22
Appendix C. Borrower Comments ................................................................................... 23




This report was prepared by Abhinav Kumar Gupta, consultant under the guidance of Lauren Kelly, Senior
Evaluation Officer in the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank, in collaboration with IEG
consultants Kathryn Steingraber, Sonia Sarder. The report was peer reviewed by Pradeep Mitra and panel
reviewed by Peter Nigel Freeman. Vibhuti Khanna provided administrative support.
                                                              vi


Principal Ratings
                                    ICR*               ICR Review*                 PPAR
 Outcome                    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Risk to                             Moderate                          Moderate                         Moderate
 Development
 Outcome
 Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower                           Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
                                                              Division Chief/
 Project               Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                  Country Director
 Appraisal             Fabio Galli/Mohi Uz                    Vincent Gouarne               Frederick Thomas Temple
                             Zaman
 Completion                 Reefat Sultana                      Karla Carvajal                     Salman Zaheer
                                                                  Gonzalez
                                                          vii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
      IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency
is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to
adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                            ix


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment of the Rural Transport Improvement Project
(RTIP) that became effective on July 30, 2003, that was originally scheduled to close on June
30, 2009, and that ended on the extended closing date of June 30, 2012. The total appraisal
costs were estimated at US$250 million including US$204 in IDA contributions. IEG was
able to validate the actual IDA contributions of US$228.70 including US$20 million of
additional financing. A total of US$ 4.5 million was also recorded as being cancelled. Efforts
were made to obtain total cost information at t both the ICR and the PPAR stage, including
the borrower contribution, but this information was not made available to the IEG team.

The project development objective was to provide rural communities with improved access
to social services and economic opportunities, and to enhance the capacity of relevant
government institutions to better manage rural transport infrastructure. A second phase of the
project – RTIP II – was approved in December 2008 and was under implementation at the
time of this review. This assessment learns from the cumulative implementation experience,
but only assesses and rates the first phase.

This report was prepared by Abhinav Kumar Gupta, consultant, under the guidance of Ms.
Lauren Kelly, Senior Evaluation Officer in the Independent Evaluation Group of the World
Bank. The assessment was supported by Kathryn Steingraber and Sonia Sarder, and was
overseen by Ms. Midori Makino, Manager IEGSD. The team would like to recognize the
strong support provided by the World Bank Country Office in Dhaka and the excellent
assistance from the Local Government Engineering Department, including the Project
Management Unit, regional staff and community facilitators in the state of Sirajganj.

This assessment was selected to provide input to a Bangladesh Country Study commissioned
as part of IEG’s forthcoming Evaluation of the World Bank Group’s Contribution to the
Development of the Rural Non-Farm Economy to Alleviate Poverty (2004-2014).

Methodology. This project performance assessment seeks to validate the relevance, efficiency
and effectiveness of the reported results of the Rural Transport Improvement Project. In
preparation for the mission, a desk review of the documentation was conducted that included
a review of the Project Appraisal Document, Implementation Completion and Results
Report, legal and project files, the mid-term review and the Social Economic Monitoring
Evaluation commissioned by the project. The desk review was supplemented by group
interviews of local beneficiaries in the project areas.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR will be shared with relevant
Government officials and agencies for their review and comment. Comments received will
be included in Annex C of the report.
                                                x


Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment of the Rural Transport Improvement Project
(RTIP) that became effective on July 30, 2003, that was originally scheduled to close on June
30, 2009, and that ended on the extended closing date of June 30, 2012. The total appraisal
costs were estimated at US$250 million including US$204 in IDA contributions. IEG was
able to validate the actual IDA contributions of US$228.70 including US$20 million of
additional financing. A total of US$ 4.5 million was also recorded as being cancelled. Efforts
were made to obtain total cost information at t both the ICR and the PPAR stage, including
the borrower contribution, but this information was not made available to the IEG team. .

The PDO of the project was to (1) provide rural communities with improved access to social
services and economic opportunities, and to (2) enhance the capacity of relevant government
institutions to better manage rural transport infrastructure. A second phase of the project –
RTIP II – was approved in December 2012 and was under implementation at the time of this
review. This assessment learns from the cumulative implementation experience, but only
assesses and rates the first phase.

The relevance of both objectives are substantial. The objectives are in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy goals for rural development in Bangladesh, both at the time of appraisal
and at close, including with the specific CAS goal at the time of project close to maintain and
extending Bangladesh’s transport network, including the rehabilitation of rural transport.
The objectives are have also relevant the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy which
aims to reduce the incidence of rural poverty by improving the infrastructure of the rural
economy. The objective statement lacked specificity, however, with regard to the category of
rural beneficiaries that it intended to support.

 The relevance of design is also substantial. The project design had an appropriate balance
among the various aspect of the physical works for improving rural roads to enhance access
to markets and production centers; rehabilitation and maintenance of roads; improvement of
rural markets; and technical assistance and capacity building. The theory of change is well
grounded in evidence, but the results framework lacked specific and attributable links
between the intermediate outcomes anticipated and the project development objectives. A
Socio-Economic survey was designed to measure the PDO, but it fell short of measuring
distributional impacts unlike the impact assessments that had been commissioned for the
Bank supported predecessor projects in the rural roads sector during the decade prior.

The project substantially achieved its objectives of improving access to social and economic
activities. The project only modestly achieved its objective of enhancing the capacity of
relevant government institutions to better manage rural transport infrastructure. While
physical targets were met, and in most cases surpassed, the original road quality metrics
introduced during appraisal were not adhered to, posing significant threats to the
sustainability of the rural road network, that in turn, poses risk to the aim of increasing access
to economic and social opportunities for rural communities. The capacity building objective
only partially achieved its training objectives and evidence is lacking that the training
provided enhanced the capacity of relevant government institutions to better manage rural
                                              xi


transport infrastructure, with an emphasis on better management. Metrics used to measure the
capacity building aims were either insufficient (reduction of operating costs without a
complementary metric associated with work quality) or we not met (resource mobilization).

Efficiency is rated substantial. The ex-post economic analysis estimated an ERR for the road
improvement component of 19.2% and for the rural markets component of 35.2%. These
costs represented about 75% of the project costs. These calculations are in line with the ex-
ante ERR estimate of 20.5% for the road improvement and 28.9% for the rural market
improvement component. The level of road quality and the management challenges
associated with the markets however raises some concern about the higher than anticipated
rates of return, especially for the market infrastructure. The project also experienced
inefficiencies owing to delays and cost escalations that were encountered during the project
period.

Regarding the cost escalation and delays, the Mid-Term Review of the project which took
place in December 2005 identified the key issues related to delays in implementation, and
after follow up discussions, the LGED moved to start cancelling the contracts for non-
performance. In total 73 contracts had to be cancelled. Since the additional financing resulted
in extended closing date, most of the cancelled contracts were rebid and completed
satisfactorily. Although delayed and with some cost escalation, LGED’s prompt contractual
decisions helped in the completion of about 70 contracts.

Bank performance is moderately satisfactory. Despite having access to lessons learned
across several predecessor projects, quality at entry was undermined by a lack of awareness
and capacity to implement the Bank’s operational policies, to support better fiduciary
management, and to put in place a system that not only supported the completion of physical
works, but that also focused on the software, including management capacity and
decentralized resource mobilization constraints and opportunities. Though the quality of
supervision was timely and recommendations were followed up with actions, it was
undermined by ineffective management of social and environmental risks, unclear
articulation of specific aims and measurable targets, discrepancies around the metrics for
road quality and ineffective International Competitive Bidding (ICB) tool to gain efficiencies
for rural construction and rehabilitation.

Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Government commitment was high,
including an increase in the budgetary allocation for rural road maintenance, however the
borrower deviated from the agreed upon road quality standards set at appraisal. While the
 Government also took steps to provide LGED with greater autonomy and tools to strengthen
its institutional capacity, there was demonstrated commitment towards decentralized
management of rural infrastructure, including the need for enhanced resource mobilization to
meet local repair and construction needs. The implementation agency effectively oversaw
the delivery of the project objectives in line with the agreed upon metrics, but there was
inadequate attention and support for the effective implementation of environmental and
social safeguards and evidence of non-compliance with the operational policies. There were
also irregularities related to mobilization of payments for contracts that were subsequently
                                                xii


canceled due to contractor performance issues, and some delays in financial reporting which
were addressed during supervision missions.


Lessons
Human capacity development is as important as technical training in projects
promoting rural decentralized infrastructure service delivery. In the RTIP, while
physical targets were met or exceeded, more effective and in-depth training may have helped
to smooth project implementation and to build longer term capacity within the Government,
including for environmental management. A decision to rely on a parallel Bank financed
project for planned training did not generate the results anticipated, as confirmed by IEG’s
review of both this and the parallel project. Training in the parallel project was found to have
been inadequate.

Civil works contracts should include a transparently negotiated, price escalation
provision, even during short implementation periods, but ensuring a more realistic
estimate would be important, too. In the case of RTIP, the price of construction materials
rose sharply during the short implementation period (eighteen months) which resulted in
many contractors abandoning the works.

Timing and sequencing are critical considerations when awarding civil works contracts.
In the case of RTIP, the implementing agency awarded civil works contracts at the beginning
of the rainy season or late in the dry season, resulting in non-activity of contractors for half of
the year and delays in contract implementation. All contracts which were awarded in this
way took an extra year for completion. On the other hand, contracts awarded at the end of
rainy season had two full dry seasons to be completed.




                                                                Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                                Director, IEG Financial, Private
                                                                Sector, and Sustainable Development
                                              1


1. Background and Context
1.1    Bangladesh, with a population of about 150 million and a land area of 147,570 square
kilometers is amongst the most densely-populated countries in the world. The economy of
Bangladesh grew steadily at about 5.6 per annum between 2000 and 2010 and at a rate of
about 6 percent per annum since then. Headcount poverty fell steadily from 48.9% in 2000 to
31.5% in 2010 and, given slowing population growth, led to there being 17 million fewer
poor people in 2010 compared to 2000. Rural poverty has also fallen significantly from 52.3
percent in 2000 to 35.2 percent in 2010.

1.2     The two main drivers of poverty reduction were: Growth in labor income—higher
returns to farm and nonfarm endowments--which contributed nearly two-thirds (64%) to
poverty reduction and the demographic transition. Fertility rates have declined from 6.3
births/women in 1975 to 2.3 births/woman in 2011. The associated fall in the child
dependency ratio and a rising share of the working age population in the total population
contributed to 25% of the poverty reduction.

1.3     From 2000 to 2005, increased wages in the nonfarm sector made a substantial
contribution to poverty reduction. Three-quarters of new jobs added during the entire decade
were in the non-agricultural sector, with more of this occurring during the first half of the
decade. There was a reduction in the proportion of illiterates and an increased share in the
workforce of those with completed primary and lower secondary education, as well as large
population shifts from rural to urban regions. From 2005 – 2010: poverty reduction was
largely owed to rising returns to farm endowments in the form of (1) increased wages of rural
unskilled labor,(i.e., not associated with changes in education or occupation) and (2) rising
returns to rural agriculture-based households engaged in cultivation of their own farms.

1.4      Entry barriers faced by the rural poor in accessing improved income-generating
activities in the rural nonfarm economy include lack of education, poor infrastructure in areas
distant from urban markets, and lack of electricity. The Rural Transport Improvement Project
(RTIP) was designed to improve rural transport infrastructure, consisting of rural roads,
inland water transport and rural markets. The project follows decades of sustained support to
the sector, beginning most notably with the Bank supported Rural Infrastructure Strategy
Study (1984) followed by a series of IDA funded projects including the first and the second
Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project which helped to facilitate
economic and social development in targeted districts by improving rural mobility and access
to services. RTIP was designed to scale up the approach while strengthening local
governmental capacity and consolidating various donor initiatives underway.
                                              2




2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1    Project Development Objective The development objectives of the project were to
(1) provide rural communities with improved access to social services and economic
opportunity, and to (2) enhance the capacity of relevant government institutions to better
manage rural transport infrastructure. The PDO was the same in the PAD (page 2) and
Development Credit Agreement (page 13).

2.2     Project Components: The original project contained eight components. While the
PAD and ICR provides the appraisal costs by component in US dollars, these were
inconsistent between the two documents. And, while the PAD provides the component costs
in US dollars, the ICR only provides the actual component costs in the Bangladesh Taka.
This assessment uses the appraisal costs included in the PAD, and the costs in Taka reported
in the ICR. For the purpose of comparing costs, this assessment converts the US dollar into
Bangladesh Taka at the time of project appraisal.

   (1) Improvement of about 1,100 km of Upazila roads (there are feeder roads known by
       their acronym UZR), (BDT 5,309.7M/US$91.2M at appraisal; actual costs were BDT
       8,638.1M, 162.7% of the cost at appraisal). This component was designed to improve
       rural access and connectivity to markets and production centers in the 21 project
       districts by making key UZR passable all year around and by improving their riding
       quality and carrying capacity.

   (2) Improvement of about 500 km of Union roads (these are rural roads) (BDT
       1,129.5M/US$19.4M at appraisal; actual costs were BDT 2,085.8M, 184.7% of the
       cost at appraisal). This component was designed to improve rural access and
       connectivity in the 21 project districts by making key Union roads passable all year
       around and by improving their riding quality.

   (3) Periodic maintenance/rehabilitation of about 1,500 km Upazila roads. (BDT
       1,874.7M/US$32.2M at appraisal; actual costs were BDT3425.2M, 182.7% of the
       cost at appraisal). This component was designed to help reduce the periodic
       maintenance/rehabilitation backlog on the Local Government Engineering
       Department (LGED) managed portion of the road network by funding the overlaying,
       resealing and minor rehabilitation of 1,500 km of key UZRs in the 21 project districts.

   (4) Construction of about 15 km of culverts/bridges on Union Roads (BDT
       1,467.1M/US$25.2M at appraisal; actual costs were BDT2640.4M, 180% of the cost
       at appraisal). This component was designed to make approximately 5,000 km of URs
       passable year-around in the 21 project districts, and to provide appropriate drainage
       structure on these roads.
                                               3


(5) Improvement and/or construction of about 150 rural markets and 45 river
   jetties. (BDT844.2 M/US$14.5M at appraisal; actual costs were BDT330.9M, 39.2% of
   the cost at appraisal). The aim of this component was to help lower the cost of goods and
   commodities in the 21 project districts by facilitating their trade. Implementation of these
   activities did not materialize as anticipated, as reflected by the actual costs, including 35
   markets that were dropped due to either technical feasibility or failure to mobilize local
   contributions as required (which could also reflect a lack of local demand).

(6) Land acquisition, implementation of Resettlement Framework, Environmental
    Management Framework, Resettlement Action Plan, Environmental Management
    Plan, Indigenous People's Development Plan, utility relocation
    (BDT675.4M/US$11.6M at appraisal; actual costs were BDT125.1M, 18.5% of the cost
    at appraisal). Component finance was provided to assess and mitigate the social and
    environmental impacts of implementing the civil works components. Land acquisition
    and cash compensation was to be funded entirely by the Government of Bangladesh. This
    component was severely underfunded, reflective of the overall shortcomings associated
    with the implementation of the environmental and social risk mitigation measures.

(7) Design Supervision Monitoring consultant services, quality, financial and
    procurement audit services, and other consultant services. (BDT675.4M/US$11.6M
    at appraisal; actual costs were BDT984.4M, 145.8% of the cost at appraisal). This
    component was designed to ensure the timely, quality, and cost effective construction,
    maintenance/rehabilitation of the civil works components under the project.

(8) Technical Assistance, training, capacity building of Local Government Engineering
    Department (LGED) and Local Government Institutions (LGIs), equipment and
    pre-investment studies. (BDT291.1M/US$5M at appraisal; actual costs were
    BDT317.3M, 109% of the cost at appraisal).This component was designed to finance a
    wide variety of activities and investments including enhanced training programs of
    LGED staff, LGED implementation of improved and new business processes and
    systems, rural government capacity building initiatives and rural road transport safety.
    This component was not fully implemented, in part because of the approval and
    implementation of a parallel Bank project that started to offer similar training. (Issues
    associated with the implementation of the training activities in the project are further
    discussed in the efficacy section).

2.3     A component on Flood Rehabilitation was added in February, 2008 following
approval of an Additional Financing. While this component was treated separately in the
Aide-Memoires, no formal changes in the system were made to add the component in the
Project Portal. The additional financing of US$25 million IDA Grant funds (of which only
US$20.5 million was utilized) supported recovery efforts of the flood affected population. .
The component had two parts. The first part with a financing of US$ 10 million was used to
carry out livelihood restoration of communities directly affected by the 2007 Floods in the
project and neighboring districts, while the remaining US$15 million were transferred to
PKSF to support 2007 Flood restoration activities. PKSF administered the micro-credit
program through the Disaster Management Fund (DMF) and its Partner Organizations (POs)
which provide the low interest loans to eligible families.
                                               4


Relevance of Objective

2.4      The relevance of the objectives is Substantial. The World Bank’s Country Assistance
Strategy goals for rural development in Bangladesh at the time of appraisal time were to: a)
support growth in agriculture and non-farm activities; (b) increase opportunities and assets
available to the poor; (c) improve rural infrastructure services; and (d) strengthen local
institutions. The objectives are also in line with the Country Assistance Strategy goals at the
time of project close. The 2011-2014 CAS included a goal of maintaining and extending
Bangladesh’s transport network, including the rehabilitation of rural transport. The
objectives are also relevant the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy which aims to
reduce the incidence of rural poverty by improving the infrastructure of the rural economy.
The objective statement lacked specificity, however with regard to the category of rural
beneficiaries that it intended to support. As evidence on distributional impacts will show, this
lack of specificity in the objective statement may have missed an opportunity to have had
more direct, poverty-related impacts.

Relevance of Design

2.5      The relevance of design is Substantial. The project design had an appropriate
balance among the various aspect of the physical works for improving rural roads to enhance
access to markets and production centers; rehabilitation and maintenance of roads;
improvement of rural markets; and technical assistance and capacity building. The theory of
change is well grounded in evidence: It is reasonable to assume that improving rural roads
would lead to a reduction in travel time and transport costs. It was also reasonable to assume
that enhanced access would augment economic opportunities (agricultural and non-farm
activities, and household employment) and access to social services (clinics, schools, etc.).
The results framework lacked specific links however between the intermediate outcomes
anticipated and the project development objectives. A Socio-Economic survey was designed
to measure the PDO, but it fell short of measuring distributional impacts unlike impact
assessments that were commissioned for Bank supported predecessor projects in the sector.

3. Implementation
Project costs

3.1     The project was implemented over a period of nine years, due to the extension of the
project to support additional flood rehabilitation work and delays that were mainly
attributable to challenges associated with land acquisition and compensation and poor
contract management. These delays mainly affected the improvement of Upazila roads while
the road maintenance activities progressed satisfactorily (since they did not involve land
acquisition). During the project period, there was also a severe price increase of construction
materials (especially cement and reinforcement steel) in international markets (2007 to 2008)
which resulted in a major setback in the construction of the Upazila roads. Many contractors
abandoned the site because of the high price of materials since price escalation was not
included as part of their contract.
                                               5


3.2     The Mid-Term Review, which took place in December 2005, identified many of the
key issues leading to delays. After the Mid-Term, LGED initiated the cancellation of non-
performing contracts. As a result, about 73 contracts were cancelled, while 70 were
effectively completed.

3.3     After the mid-term, the project introduced four International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) contract packages on a pilot basis - which were awarded in 2008 - with each package
comprising four to five roads. The aim was to test the ICB modality against the National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). These contracts were characterized by severe delays however,
with the explanation provided that the awards covered too large of a geographic space. Two
contracts were completed with a one year extension beyond the original contract period of
thirty months. The other two contracts were cancelled and re-awarded as NCBs.

3.4     In 2008, the World Bank and LGED initiated an Operational Risk Assessment study
to assess fiduciary and operational risks in LGED’s management of projects, assets and other
resources, to evaluate the efficacy of external review of decision-making by LGED and the
LGD, to identify options for future monitoring of operational risks in LGED and the LGD,
and to prioritize options which are realistic and to effectively minimize the major operational
risks identified.

3.5    Project Dates. The project became effective on July 30, 2003. The original closing
date was June 30, 2009. At the time of approval of the Additional Financing, the closing date
was extended to June 30, 2011 to allow completion of the originally planned civil works and
to meet needs arising from the 2007 Flood. A further extension of one year to June 30, 2012,
was subsequently granted to allow completion of flood rehabilitation contracts which
experienced delays in implementation

3.6     Project Costs and Financing. Total actual project costs were US$199.5 million,
including additional financing, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$255 million
including physical and price contingency costs. Additional Financing of SDR 12.6 million
(US$20.0 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on February 7, 2008. The
Additional Financing was to help meet the Recipient's increased funding requirement caused
by the impact of floods that hit the Recipient's territory in August 2007.

3.7     At appraisal, it was expected that IDA would finance 80.85% (US$206.2 million)
with the Borrower financing the remaining 19.15% (US$48.8 million). At project closure
about US$4.5 million of the total Credit, including the Additional Financing, remained
undisbursed and was cancelled. This amount included US$236,408 that was refunded to IDA
as a result of ineligible expenses due to contracting issues. The balance of US$4.5 million
resulted from (i) depreciation of the Taka against the dollar; (ii) the decision not to rebid
cancelled contracts in 2010; and (iii) changes in the SDR/dollar rate. There was no other
external financing for the project. There have been no information on the extent of borrower
contribution, including in the financing table in Annex 1 of ICR.
                                                6


Compliance with the World Bank’s Policies

3.8     The project was classified as Category “A” for purposes of Environmental
Assessment. The Environmental Impact Assessment found that the unmitigated effects of
the project would include impacts on water quality, aquatic ecology, and management of soil
and borrow pit areas, but the incidence level was unknown.

3.9      With regard to environmental risk mitigation, the ICR states that "overall monitoring
and quality control of environmental management required much attention from LGED. The
ICR found weaknesses in the documentation of EMP progress reports and monitoring results
as well as the establishment of Environmental Management Information System, which made
it difficult for actual data assessment” (ICR. Page 12 Para 4).

3.10 A Category A project requires the retention of independent environmental experts not
affiliated with the project. This was not a highly risky project, so it is understood that an
independent advisory panel was not involved. However, the ICR notes that the consulting
firm that was hired did not manage the [environmental management] activities, so that this
work became the direct responsibility of the implementing agency. This assessment also
points to the costs, available in Annex A of the ICR, on Safeguards implementation. Against
a projected 805 BDT, 125.08 BDT were spent, representing a shortfall of 85 percent of the
appraised costs. Overall, IEG notes that ICRs require a clear statement of full compliance, and
this is especially the case for ICRs of Category A projects. This statement was not made available
to IEG in the ICR nor was evidence of full compliance made available through the comment
period.

3.11 According to the PAD (page 21), in addition to Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01),
three other safeguards policies were triggered: Cultural Property (OPN 11.03), Indigenous
Peoples (OP 4.10) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).

3.12 With regard to the social safeguards, specifically Involuntary Resettlement, there
was a failure to properly compensate resettled beneficiaries (roughly 8 percent of the
identified project affected persons were not compensated) owing to very weak capacity at the
District and local level. Land Acquisition and resettlement was a specific component of the
project. A total of 173.24 ha were acquired, affecting 15,735 landowners, yielding an average
loss per landholder of 0.011 ha. Difficulties in implementing the RAPs (there were three
phases of resettlement) are attributed to the high transaction costs associated with managing
resettlement of small land holdings. In some cases, the travel time and costs of obtaining
compensation outweighed the compensation package (which needed to be obtained at
District Headquarters). This includes persons living abroad that would have had to travel
home to obtain the compensation. In other cases, landowners lacked the requisite legal
records needed to obtain compensation.

3.13 Yet, overall, evidence attests that the compensation process was slow and unwieldly.
Sufficient training was not provided, and information, as a result, did not adequately flow
between the PMU, to district to the local implementing level. With regard to cultural
property, although the Project Appraisal Document notes that no designated cultural property
will be impacted, but that a small number of minor community and religious properties are
                                                  7


close the civil works, and that all such properties will be carefully protected, there is no
reference to the cultural property safeguard in the ICR.

3.14 Weaknesses are associated with the challenges associated with engaging multiple
ministries. Acquisitions were carried out by involving, as the ordinance required, officials
who belonged to different ministries and had no accountability whatsoever to the project
authority. Valuation of acquired lands and other assets required participation of several
Government agencies like the Public Works Department, Forestry, Fisheries, etc.

3.15 Indigenous People. An Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework consistent with the
Bank’s OP 4.10 was prepared. Reportedly, the ICR indicates that the project caused no
adverse impacts on indigenous peoples who were dispersed in small settlements in some of
the project districts.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1      The project had two development objectives. The project substantially provided rural
communities with improved access to social services and economic opportunities, however it
only modestly enhanced the capacity of relevant government institutions to better manage
rural transport infrastructure. Evidence against the first objective was mainly obtained by
IEG from the Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation Report (SEME). For the second
objective, the results indicators and interviews with project staff were used.

Objective 1. Provide rural communities with improved access to social services and
economic opportunities.

Outputs

4.2      The project met or surpassed most of its physical targets.

     Against a target of 1600km of UZRs, the project improved 1638 km of UZRs.

     Against a target of 15,000 meters of missing bridges/culverts, the project constructed or
      repaired 15,965 meters of missing bridges/culverts to support the expansion of the
      passable rural road network;

     Against a target of 150 rural markets and 45 river jetties, the project constructed or
      rehabilitated 123 rural markets and 32 river jetties.

     Another metric aimed to generate 24,000 person years of employment. Against this aim,
      the civil works contracts generated 50,275 person-years of employment in the project
      area. There is no information available on wages, skills, or the number of persons
      employed, and no information on job quality. Women were provided opportunities in off-
      pavement maintenance and tree planting, but these opportunities are less lucrative than
      pavement maintenance. Destitute women were specifically targeted as part of a tree
      planting campaign to mitigate environmental risks. Tree planting was carried out along
                                               8


   905km of roads; these women were employed under Labor Contracting Societies and
   were also responsible for tree maintenance.

Outcomes

4.3     This assessment points to the discrepancy between the PAD and the ICR concerning
the indicator used in the results framework to measure project outcomes, with regard the
international road roughness index. At appraisal, the project team identified a total of about
1,100 km of Upazila Roads for improvement under the project. These roads were selected
from the list of feeder roads identified through a techno-economic prioritization study using
detailed economic analysis. Traffic counts were taken on the roads identified for the first
phase program, for example. It then set a target of achieving an IRI score of <4 as an
indicator of road improvement. It points to the base case road condition, which varied from
IRI 10 to 18. This indicator was not measured. Rather, the PMU used an indicator of an IRI
score of <6. The ICR points out this discrepancy. IEG finds that there is no evidence in the
project documentation that the indicator was ever formally revised 0 for example at mid-
term. Interviews conducted for the assessment and the comments provided indicated that he
Government of Bangladesh commonly uses a <6 score. However, the results frame should
therefore have been modified accordingly during the implementation period. Comments
indicate that the agreement was in place before 2005, and that this may have changed at a
point thereafter (See Bank Performance Section). With a baseline of 3,800 km, the result
reported against this metric is 0 km constructed to the <4 standard. Rather, against a baseline
of 3800 km, the project reports constructing 6,800 km of rural roads to a standard of IRI<6.

4.4     The SEME provides evidence of economic outcomes for the project area as a whole,
as compared to a control. It reports that average monthly income and expenditure rose by
73.5% and 55.8% respectively in RTIP project areas versus by 14.8% and 33.9% respectively
in control areas. Agricultural and non-agricultural production increased in rural villages as a
consequence of traffic improvement. The growth in the number of enterprises per road was
higher in villages assisted by RTIP than in controls.

4.5      The Rehabilitation and improvement of markets is reported by the SEME to be
associated with the stimulation of trade, (but because the metrics used to compare the project
areas versus control for market improvement are different, it is unclear whether this impact is
attributable to the project). The project documentation however points to significant risks
with regard to market sustainability, and this in turn will have an impact on the ability of the
markets to contribute to the economic aims envisioned by the PDO. Project documentation
points to concerns about the management of the completed markets and the generally
inadequate maintenance. Although Market Management Committees have been given legal
status, they require more training, and more clarity on responsibilities, on safety operations,
and maintenance.

4.6      The road maintenance and expansion also had an effect on access to finance. In RTIP
project areas, the average number of financial institutions increased by 73% for informal
institutions (NGOs offering access to finance) and by 8% for formal institutions (national
banks, such as Sonali, Janata, Rupali, Pubali, etc.). For the control areas, the average number
of informal financial agents (NGOs) increased by 48% and access to formal banking
                                                9


remained the same. The number of new account holders in regular Bank branches rose by
twice as much in RTIP project villages as compared to control villages.

4.7     The SEME also provides evidence of social outcomes for the project area as a whole,
as compared to a control. Total school enrollment rose by 12.2% in project villages and
decreased by 60% in control villages. The number of teachers present in government primary
schools increased by 47% on average in project areas (road, including a 19.35% and 27.27%
increase in male and female teacher presence respectively) as compared to an increase of
16% on average in control areas, including a change of are -12.50 % and +28 % in the male
and female presence respectively. In RTIP project villages, the number of healthcare service
recipients per month went up by 32% with a 35% growth in the number of female recipients
as compared to a decrease by 20% in the number of healthcare service recipients per month
in the control areas and a 3% increase in the number of female recipients.

4.8     But the SEME does not measure distributional impacts. An impact evaluation
commissioned of the predecessor rural road projects conducted distributional analysis of per
capita expenditures, non-landed assets and agricultural production, where households were
divided into four quartiles according to their initial position in the distribution of the outcome
of interest. The analysis found that the poorest quartile of households did not share in the
benefits of rural roads. Households in the second poorest quartile (between the 25th and 50th
percentile) saw positive gains in food expenditure per capita. Significant improvements in
per capita expenditure and assets occurred primarily between the 50th and 75th percentiles of
the distribution.

4.9     It also does not report on the attenuation effects of the investment over time. The
impact assessment of the predecessor project found that, when comparing the impact of the
project on households that received the project between 2001 and 2005 and those that
received it over a longer period between 1997 and 2005, the effects on per capita
expenditure, schooling and transport costs were attenuated for those households that had
received the project from the beginning. The employment effects on non-agricultural wage
work were also stronger in the long-term. The employment results reflect greater access to
non-farm opportunities and reduced dependence on agricultural wage work, although these
effects emerge only over the long term. The authors suggest that there is a feedback effect
between off-farm work and rural road development, where road improvements foster markets
that become increasingly diversified across sectors. The attenuation of the effects on
schooling could be explained by the lack of maintenance in roads, a problem that the
Bangladesh Systematic Country Diagnostic refers to as a mindset of “build, neglect, rebuild.”

4.10 As the project was under implementation for almost a decade, it is unclear why the
program did not implement a similar assessment of the distributional impacts of the RTIP
program, so that more light could be shed on who benefited, how, and why.
                                               10


Objective 2. Enhance Capacity of Relevant Government Institutions to Better Manage
Rural Transport Infrastructure

4.11 The project implemented two types of capacity building activities, that included
project finance valued at US$ 6 million. It financed an:

   Institutional Strengthening Action Program (ISAP) for LGED that included a focus on
    strategy, organizational development, financial management and audit, road maintenance
    and asset management, rural transport safety, and environmental and social risk
    management. The various ISAP targets were aimed at enhancing the key elements of
    LGED's policy framework, planning and operational capabilities.

   Local Government Improvement Program (LGIP). The program was designed to help
    building local government capacity for infrastructure management and related revenue
    mobilization, with the aim of influencing wider reforms in the rural road sector. It
    included basic training for Union Parishads in preparation of investment schemes, for
    conducting public consultations, for records maintenance etc. This program was piloted
    in 5 districts, and after evaluation, rolled out to the rest of 21 districts. After the basic
    training was completed, a second phase of Intensive Strengthening was done on a needed
    basis, as a hands-on training for Union Parishad management. It was planned as a pilot,
    by selecting one UP in each district with the aim of and then rolling it out.

Outputs

4.12   Output targets against this objective were only partially met. These included:

   The implementation of an LGED-wide Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP).

   Twenty-three training courses, workshops and seminars that trained a total of 12,859
    participants, including 48 LGED engineers who received overseas training.

   The implementation of the LGIP program. Basic Training activities were completed, but
    Intensive Strengthening activities were only partly implemented. A total of 20,324 people
    from the Union Parishads received training through the provision of 276 grants.
    However, in 2008-2009, these trainings were seen as less desirable with the arrival of
    another World Bank project – the Local Government Support Program - that offered
    training without the RTIP requirement of a 20 percent matching grant. Training was also
    interrupted by the UP election cycle that diverted attention away from institutional
    strengthening and associated reforms. A planned resource mobilization study was
    dropped, as this too was foreseen to be conducted by the Bank’s concurrent Local
    Government Support Program.

Outcomes

4.13 There are several claims made in the RTIP project documentation that are
unsubstantiated by evidence. These claims include the assertion that institutional reforms at
LGED transformed it into an “agency with vision and strategy” and a “focus on continued
                                              11


modernization”. Documentation also states that the LGIP program built local government
capacity - in budgeting, planning and project management – to enable them to better
participate with LGED in prioritization of investments. Other statements are limited to
outputs. The project reports that the maintenance policy developed under the project was
adopted by LGED, for example, and that this alone is a significant milestone. Other claims
are problematic since they differ widely from the project evidence. For example, statements
about environmental strengthening - facilitated by the project – that led to mainstreaming
environmental management into regular operations of LGED. (See section below on
Compliance with the World Bank’s Operational Policies).

4.14 The project utilized several metrics to measure the outcomes of the capacity building
efforts financed by the project. First, it sought to increase operating efficiency (at LGED) as
measured by the annual operating costs as a percentage of the total annual budget. The
project helped the LGED to reduce the value of its annual operating costs from 11.7 percent
of its operating budget to 4.9 percent. IEG’s mission learned that, as a result of a
recommendation of an Institutional Strengthening Action Plan, these costs were adjusted to
6.7 percent of operating costs at the time of the mission. The increased costs reflect a
recommendation to increase the diversity of skills and to create more mid-level positions.

4.15 IEG’s assessment finds this metric to have been ill-designed, especially with regard to
the many shortfalls that have been observed in managing environment and social risks,
contractual management, and the ability to map, monitor, report and respond to issues
pertaining to road quality and rural infrastructure maintenance (including markets). A
reduction in operating costs during the project period, and the reported increase in efficiency,
should have been accompanied by evidence that the ability of the agency to manage and
oversee contracts had been enhanced. The project period was plagued by contractual issues,
fiduciary management issues, and an inability to manage the environmental and social issues
that embody rural road planning and design.

4.16 A second metric associated with the LGIP that was utilized was resource
mobilization. The project did not meet its target of a 30% increase in revenue mobilization by
participating Local Government Institutions. By project end, the project reported that
resource mobilization was at the same level that it had been a decade ago (compared to a
baseline of 200,000 taka in 2003, the project reported resources to be 200,000 in 2013).
According to project documentation, this end target could not be achieved due to unresolved
national level policy issues.

4.17 One of the explanations provided for why the LGIP trainings – and the associated
capacity results- were only partially achieved was the existence of another parallel World
Bank project, the Local Government Support Project (2006-2011). IEG reviewed the results
of this project that aimed to "to develop an accountable system of local governance, capable
to provide basic services that meet community priorities, supported by a predictable and
transparent fiscal transfer system." A desk review of this project suggests that this project
was not a substitute for the RTIP capacity building aims, with regard specifically to the rural
road and rural infrastructure constraints that the Ups face. Rather, the two different projects
seemed to engender an unhealthy competition between not altogether complementary aims.
Further, the parallel project offered only basic training, not intense support to Local
                                              12


Governments. The ICRR, for example, reports that basic training was provided through a 5-
day module to nearly 50,000 local public officials in planning, budgeting, public financial
management, safeguards compliance, and good governance. It also notes that the design of
the training program lacked sufficient ownership from the government, that the approach
proved to be too top-down and that it hindered the institutional development of the UPs.

Gender Integration

4.18 Gender analysis is one part of IEG’s project performance assessment methodology:
this includes an analysis of gender consideration at design, implementation and a review of
gender related impacts after project close. The gender analysis is conducted to provide an
additional learning lens about what works and what does not work with regard to gender
integration across the Bank’s interventions, as well as to help with the assessment of
distributional impacts.

4.19     A review of the project documents indicates that while the project objective was not
gender specific, the aim of improving rural connectivity in project areas was relevantly in
line with both male and female accessibility needs. There were no gender specific indicators,
however it is reasonable to assume that improving rural roads would lead to a reduction in
travel time and transport costs for women. Gender related results were reported in the Socio-
Economic Monitoring and Evaluation (SEME). According to the SEME, in project villages,
the number of health care service recipients increased by 32%, with a 35% growth in the
number of female recipients; in control villages, the corresponding increases were 20% and
3%. Total school enrolment rose by 12.2% in project villages and decreased by 60% in
control villages. However, gender disaggregated data was not collected for productive
investments, such as income earned from increase access to rural markets, the river jetties, or
the women’s corner.

4.20 Women were provided opportunities in off-pavement maintenance and tree planting,
but these opportunities are less lucrative than pavement maintenance. This was recognized
by the project and efforts were to be made in the second phase to address this. Destitute
women were specifically targeted as part of a tree planting campaign to mitigate
environmental risks. Tree planting was carried out along 905km of roads; these women were
employed under Labor Contracting Societies and were also responsible for tree maintenance.

5. Efficiency
5.1     Efficiency is rated Substantial. The project at appraisal conducted a cost benefit
analysis for components with quantifiable benefits. These included three of the eight
components: i) improvement of about 1,000 kms of roads; ii) first year periodic maintenance
of about 1,500 roads; and iii) improvement and construction of about 150 rural markets. At
appraisal, the three components represented about 72% of the project costs. The ex-ante
economic rate of return (ERR) was 20.5% for the road improvement; 52% return for the road
maintenance and rehabilitation component; and 28.9% for the rural market improvement
component.
                                               13


5.2      The ex-post economic analysis estimated an ERR for the road improvement
component of 19.2% and for the rural markets component of 35.2%. These costs represented
about 75% of the project cost at closure. For reasons which are unclear, the ERR for the
maintenance component was not calculated at closure, but it would almost certainly have had
a positive NPV, as the ICR points out. The ICR would have added value if it had calculated
the ERR for the maintenance, which had the highest return of the components that were
assessed. As discussed in the efficacy section (and further in the risk to development
outcome section below), the rate of returns estimated for the rural markets appears high since
at least 35 are reported not to have been built, and since according to the ICR and interviews
conducted for this assessment, their sustainability is questionable (in terms of management).

5.3     Though the project has been rated substantial, it is important to mention that there
were delays and cost escalations that were encountered in the project. Due to the delays, the
project was given two extensions until June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2012. Regarding the cost
escalation and delays, the Mid-Term Review of the project which took place in December
2005 identified the key issues related to delays in implementation, and after follow up
discussions, the LGED moved to start cancelling the contracts for non-performance, which
led to cost escalation. In total 73 contracts had to be cancelled. Since the additional financing
resulted in extended closing date, most of the cancelled contracts were rebid and completed
satisfactorily. Although delayed and with some cost escalation, LGED’s prompt contractual
decisions helped in the completion of about 70 contracts.

6. Ratings
Outcome

6.1      Overall Outcome of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Relevance of
objectives and design are rated Substantial. The project substantially achieved its objectives
of improving access to social and economic activities, however environmental and social
risks associated with this category “A” project were note effectively mitigated. The project
only modestly achieved its objective of enhancing the capacity of relevant government
institutions to better manage rural transport infrastructure. Efficiency is rated Substantial,
although road quality and the management challenges associated with the markets raises
some concern about the higher than anticipated rates of return, especially for the market
infrastructure.

Risk to Development Outcome

6.2    The risk to Development Outcome Rating is High because of the following outlined
risks:

a) Political risk: The Government remains committed to the project’s objectives and
   concept. A number of initiatives started under the project are expected to continue and be
   further developed under the proposed second Rural Transport Improvement Project.
   Commitment is high at the district level.
                                              14


b) Institutional risk: Key areas of institutional risk include perceived weak commitment by
   the Central Government to decentralize management and development of rural
   infrastructure and to implement planned institutional strengthening measures for LGED,
   as well as interference by local politicians and businessmen with the leasing of local
   markets and river jetties. These institutional risks will require further commitment from
   the Government to continue to fund adequately LGED and its institutional strengthening
   program. Other risks include the maintenance and management of the rural markets
   constructed.

c) Technical risk: The chief concern here remains the quality of the roads built and the
   adequacy of the road maintenance effort. Although the maintenance allocation increased
   significantly under the project, the annual amount actually required for routine and
   periodic maintenance does not appear to have been systematically determined. While the
   quality of completed works was considered acceptable, a major challenge is posed by the
   increased volume of traffic on rehabilitated roads, especially of overloaded trucks.
   Overloading is a national problem on the Bangladeshi road network. Legislation to
   address the issue is under preparation.

7. Bank Performance
Quality at Entry

7.1      The Quality at Entry Rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The project built on lessons
learned from previous IDA funded operations including two Rural Road and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance projects. While several upfront actions were taken, for
example on procurement, to ensure implementation readiness, the results framework and
associated indicators fell short of being able to measure the project development objectives
related to improved access to social services and economic opportunities. However, the
utilization of an external assessment to measure related impacts is commendable. There is
also a lack of clarity in the program documentation on language used to determine whether a
road would be in “good and fair condition”; since baseline data was not collected it was
somewhat unclear as to how this would be measured.

Quality of Supervision

7.2    The Quality of Supervision rating is Moderately Satisfactory. Formal supervision
missions were carried out twice a year. The project’s physical targets were met and the team
was proactive with respect to contractual issues and delays in financial and audit reporting, as
pointed out by the Mid-Term review and the Operational Risk Assessment study.

7.3    There were three Task Team Leaders over the life of the project. Interviews
conducted during the comment period for this assessment revealed that there was some
discontinuity with regard to the way that the project was planned, the way that it was
implemented, and the way that results were measured. Amongst these issues is inconsistency
around the metrics used to measure the road standards. At design, and up through 2005, there
was clarity with regard to the metric utilized. After extensive consultations with engineers,
and using benchmarks set for the region, the team applied an International Road Roughness
                                              15


Index measure of <4. This measure was agreed to by the Government of Bangladesh at the
time of the project design and according to the comments received by IEG, any changes that
were made were made after 2005.

7.4     example, Supervision was not effective however in helping the counterpart to
effectively manage the environmental and social risks associated with road construction.
Supervision also did not clearly articulate the specific aims and measurable targets associated
with the additional financing made available for flood rehabilitation. More attention should
also been paid to resolving the discrepancy around the metrics for road quality. Also, while it
was appropriate to package a number of civil works contracts for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), given both the nature of rural roads (size and locations) and the difficult
conditions in rural Bangladesh, it was overly optimistic to envision ICB as an effective tool
to gain efficiencies for rural road construction and rehabilitation.

7.5     Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, in line with the IEG
ratings criteria.

8. Borrower Performance
Government Performance

8.1     Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Government
commitment during preparation and throughout implementation was demonstrated by the
provision of timely counterpart funding and an increase in the budgetary allocation for rural
road maintenance. Government also took steps to provide LGED with greater autonomy and
tools to strengthen its institutional capacity, although there is less demonstrated commitment
towards decentralized management of rural infrastructure, including the need for enhanced
resource mobilization to meet local repair and construction needs. The Government of
Bangladesh, through the multiple agencies responsible for ensuring operational policy
compliance, should have ensured the effective implementation of the environmental and
social risk mitigation measures associated with the road program. Evidence points to
inadequate treatment of all of the social and environmental risks that were triggered by the
project at appraisal.

Implementation Agency Performance

8.2     The implementation Agency performance rating is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
The implementing agency was the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED). A
Project Management Unit was housed at LGED headquarters. The 21 district offices were
responsible for implementation of project work in the respective districts including
supervision, measurement and payment. Supervision of the civil works was done jointly by
the LGED district office and Upazila engineers and by two appointed Design and
Supervision Management consulting (DSM) firms. Yet, due to the limited capacity of the
DSM in the districts, most of the project supervision was carried out by LGED. This is
reflected in the adjust component costs, which show that oversight and management of the
project cost 145 percent more than had been anticipated at appraisal. While LGED managed
a large volume of small contracts in a timely and transparent way, there were a number of
                                              16


irregularities related to mobilization of payments for contracts that were subsequently
canceled due to contractor performance issues. There were also some delays in financial
reporting which were addressed during supervision missions.

Financial Management and Procurement

8.3     Financial Management. During the early stages of implementation, financial
management was weak. This was attributable to the heavily decentralized financial structure
of the project, which included mobilizing adequate accounting resources from many field
offices and transmitting and consolidating the information at headquarters. However, a new
Unified Financial Management System was developed for LGED. A subsequent review of
the earlier financial issues indicates that most were resolved and that the new system was
generating timely reports by the closing stages of the project. Nevertheless, throughout
implementation, LGED had difficulty resolving material issues raised in the audit reports.
These issues were related to obtaining timely financial data from sub-offices in rural parts of
Bangladesh. The ICR reports (page 11) that “substantial progress” in resolving these issues
was made during appraisal of the second Rural Transport Improvement project, and that “all
audit objections on the financial statements [of the project under review] until 30 June 2011,
that were material to IDA have been satisfactorily resolved.”

8.4    Procurement. Overall, procurement was carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Initially, there were a number of procurement issues including award of contracts
beyond the initial period of bid validity. There were also some problems associated with two
ICB contracts, which subsequently had to be cancelled due to nonperformance. Cancelling
these contracts was not related to mismanagement but rather to the contractor’s inability to
mobilize in multiple construction sites. There were no reported cases of mis-procurement.

8.5    Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

9. Monitoring and Evaluation
9.1   Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization are rated as
Modest.

9.2      M&E Design: The monitoring and evaluation framework, as presented in the project
appraisal document, includes mainly output indicators, associated with the components. It
does not include adequate PDO indicators. Two indicators can be used as proxies: reduced
journey time and reduced travel costs, but these still fall short of providing adequate evidence
against the project development objectives. Indicators linked to the capacity building
objective also fall short: they include the completion and implementation of an institutional
strengthening plan, number of persons trained etc. Another shortcoming of M&E design was
the lack of an adequate M&E plan, including training and allocation of roles and
responsibilities between the different implementing layers of the project. While the
responsibility for M&E was stated to reside with LGED, critically needed data collection
activities lied outside of the main management information system – such as data needed to
report against the PDO, or against the “do no harm” aspects of this project as reflected by the
fact that the safeguard objectives are embedded as a component of the project.
                                              17


9.3      M&E Implementation: LGED assumed responsibility for monitoring the outputs for
rural road construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance. LGED was supported by an
internationally experienced Design, Supervision and Monitoring (DSM) Consultant.
However, due to the Consultant’s weak performance, much of the quality control of the civil
works was carried out by LGED's Quality Unit. The socio-economic monitoring and
evaluation system was used to collect data on the impact of the project on beneficiaries.
Indicators for the flood rehabilitation activities (supported by the Additional Financing) were
never added to the results agreement of the project and were not covered by the monitoring
activities.

9.4   M&E Utilization: There is no evidence that the M&E system was used during
implementation of the project, but the methodology developed for the Socioeconomic
Monitoring and Evaluation system has been integrated into LGED.

10. Lessons
      Human capacity development is as important as technical training in projects
       promoting rural decentralized infrastructure service delivery. In the RTIP, while
       physical targets were met or exceeded, more effective and in-depth training may have
       helped to smooth project implementation and to build longer term capacity within the
       Government, including for environmental management. A decision to rely on a
       parallel Bank financed project for planned training did not generate the results
       anticipated, as confirmed by IEG’s review of both this and the parallel project.
       Training in the parallel project was found to have been inadequate.

      Civil works contracts should include a transparently negotiated, price escalation
       provision, even during short implementation periods, but ensuring a more
       realistic estimate would be important, too. In the case of RTIP, the price of
       construction materials rose sharply during the short implementation period (eighteen
       months) which resulted in many contractors abandoning the works.

      Timing and sequencing are critical considerations when awarding civil works
       contracts. In the case of RTIP, the implementing agency awarded civil works
       contracts at the beginning of the rainy season or late in the dry season, resulting in
       non-activity of contractors for half of the year and delays in contract implementation.
       All contracts which were awarded in this way took an extra year for completion. On
       the other hand, contracts awarded at the end of rainy season had two full dry seasons
       to be completed.
                                              18


References
World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Project Appraisal Document, May 2003

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Credit Agreement, June 2003

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Project Paper, December 2007

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Financing Agreement, February 2008

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Aide-Memoires (2002 – 2012)

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Back-to-office reports and letters to
Government (2002 – 2012)

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Country Assistance Strategy (2011-2014),
September 2010

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Implementation Status Reports

World Bank. Rural Transport Improvement Project. Borrower’s Completion Report, September
2012

Socio-Economic Monitoring and Evaluation Report of RTIP (Final), June 2010

Assessment of Progressive Impacts of Institutional Strengthening Strategy, October 2012

Final Report on the “TA Services to support implementation of ISAP of LGED” under

RTIP. June 2008

LGED Annual Report 2010-2011
                                              19


Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet
Rural Transport Improvement Project (credit IDA-37910, IDA-37911)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                             Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
                                             estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            250                  —                    —
Credit amount                                  204                  204                    100
Additional Financing                            —                   20.0                   —
Cancellation                                    4.5                 4.5                    100
Note: — = not available.

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                     2004       2005        2006           2007   2008           2009
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            18.20     57.40       108.10      155.60     181.00         190.00
Actual (US$M)                        11.56      31.70       75.32      104.77     128.29         162.60
Actual as % of appraisal             63.51      55.23       69.67         67.33   70.87          85.26
Date of final disbursement:   07/08/2012

Project Dates
                                                    Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                              5/15/2001                      7/30/2003
Negotiations                                          5/5/2003                    5/12/2003
Board approval                                     7/15/2002                      6/19/2003
Signing                                            6/30/2003                      6/30/2003
Effectiveness                                      7/30/2003                      6/30/2003
Additional Financing                                  2/7/2008                    6/30/2012
Closing date                                       6/30/2009                      6/30/2012
APPENDIX A                       20


Staff Time and Cost
        Stage of Project Cycle   USD Thousands (including travel and
                                         consultant costs)
              Lending
                FY01                            19.17
                FY02                            83.77
                FY03                           242.14
                FY04                            0.28
               Total:                          345.36
          Supervision/ICR
                FY01                            0.00
                FY02                            0.00
                FY03                            0.00
                FY04                            95.81
                FY05                            98.50
                FY06                           117.84
                FY07                            69.42
                FY08                           118.35
                FY09                            90.82
                FY10                           153.94
                FY11                           139.98
                FY12                            42.22
                FY13                            49.00
                                        21                              APPENDIX A

Task Team Members
          Names                              Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Fabio Galli                Lead Transport Specialist            AFTTR        TTL
J. Channe                  Highway Engineer
A. Bansal                  Transport Planner
K.M. Maqsoodul Mannan      Consultant                           SARPS
Reidar Kvam                Manager                              CESPQ
Mohammad Sayeed            Consultant                           SASSP
Ishtiaque Ahmed            Transport Specialist                 SASDT
Supervision/ICR
 Burhanuddin Ahmed         Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
 Teen Kari Barua           Consultant, Social                   SASHN
 Aminur Rahman Chowdhury   Consultant                           SARFM
 Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi     Senior Environmental Specialist      SASDI
 Jean-Noel Guillossou      Program Manager                      AFTTR        TTL
 David C. Hanrahan         Consultant                           SASDI
 Shamsul M. Hoque          Temporary                            SASFP
 Md. Tafazzal Hossain      Program Assistant                    SASDO
                           Consultant, Institutional
 Ernst-August Huning                                            SASDT
                           Strengthening
 Marghoob Bin Hussein      Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS
 Zafrul Islam              Lead Procurement Specialist          SARPS
 Gaurav D. Joshi           Environmental Specialist             SASDI
 Syed Muhammad Latif       Consultant                           SASDI
 Tapas Paul                Senior Environmental Specialist      SASDI
 Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi       Consultant                           SASDA      Co-TTL
 Reefat Sultana            Infrastructure Specialist            SASDT        TTL
 Ismat Sultana             Program Assistant                    SACBD
 Suraiya Zannath           Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Fernanda Ruiz Nunez        Economist                            SASDT
Elena Y. Chesheva          Operations Officer                   SASDT     ICR TTL
Debbie Wei Mullin          Junior Professional Associate        SASDT
                              22


Appendix B. List of Persons Met
Name                                                  Designation
Mohammad Nazrul Islam              Transport Specialist, Asian Development Bank
Akhtar Zaman                       Senior Social Development Consultant
Partha Das Gupta                   Project Officer (Urban Transit Systems)
                                   Bangladesh Residence Mission
Momin Mozibul Haque Shamaji        Project Director, Bangladesh Trade and Transport
                                   Facilitation Services Project
Mostafa Kamal                      Project Director, RTIP II
Md. Abdul Quader                   Former Project Director, RTIP
Dewan Abdus Sabur                  Senior Assistant Engineer, Road Safety and
                                   Transport Planning, RTIP II. LGED
Javed Bari                         Senior Technical Consultant, RTIP II
Mr. Rabiul Islam                   Senior Assistant Engineer, LGED, Sirajganj
Mr. Mahfuzur Rahman                Executive Engineer, LGED, Sirajganj
Mr. Ismail Hossain                 Sub Assistant Engineer, Tarash Upazila, Sirajganj
Md Abdur Razzak                    Chair, Market Committee
Muhammad Abdurrazzak               Sub Assistant Engineer, Tarash Upazila, Sirajganj
Md Nazmul Haque                    Surveyor, Tarash Upazila, Sirajganj
Babul Akhtar                       Upazila Engineer, LGED
Md Ahsan Habib                     Sub Assistant Engineer, Raiganj, Sirajganj
Ehsanul Hoque                      Sub Assistant Engineer, Raiganj, Sirajganj
Md. Sajjad Hossain                 Assistant Engineer, Sirajganj
Muhammad Samiul                    Assistant Engineer, RTIP, Sirajganj
Moshiul Alam                       Sub Asssistant Engineer, Sirajganj
Md. Shakhawat Hossain              Field Engineer, TRIP, Sirajganj
Farhad Ahmed                       Senior Transport Specialist
TK Barua                           Consultant, World Bank
Bakhtiar Shohag                    Consultant, World Bank
Dr. Khorshed Alam                  Consultant, World Bank
                                       23


Appendix C. Borrower Comments


No comments were received from the Borrower.
