Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-2965-SOL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO SOLOMON ISLANDS
FOR A
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SOLOMON ISLANDS PROJECT
February 26, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withou: World Bank authorization.



C63048/J74197/D1414/21 WS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Solomon Islands Dollar (SI$)
US$1.00    5   SI$0.81
SI$1.00    -   US$1.23
In this report, the exchange rate of SI$1.00 = US$1.23 has been used for
1980 and subsequent years.  The generally prevailing rate of SI$1.00 - US$1.09
has been used for earlier years.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
AILB  -  Agricultural and Industrial Loans Board
DBSI  -  Development Bank of the Solomon Islands
EDF   -  European Development Fund
GSA   -  Government Shareholding Agency
NPF   -  National Provident Fund
NDP   -  National Development Plan
NBSI  -  National Bank of Solomon Islands
OPEC  -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SIMA  -  Solomon Islands Monetary Agency
GOVERNMENT OF SOLOMON ISLANDS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOLOMON ISLANDS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SOLOMON ISLANDS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Solomon Islands
Beneficiary:        Development Bank of Solomon Islands (DBSI)
Amount:             SDR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA
Co-lender:          The Asian Development Bank (ADB) will lend 1JS$2 million to
Solomon Islands.
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend the proceeds of the credit and
ADB's loan to DBSI at 5% p.a. and will allow DBSI a 15
year repayment period, including six years of grace. The
Government will also bear the foreign exchange risk.
DBSIs effective interest rate will range from 6-11% p.a.;
the overall average lending rate is expecte,d to be 10.1%
p.a.
Project
Description:      The proposed credit to Development Bank of Solomon Islands
is the second co-financing operation undertaken by
IDA/IBRD with ADB and the first such operation in
Solomon Islands. The proposed project will assist DBSI
in providing needed finance for production investments in
the agricultural, industrial, commerce, transportation and
service sectors for the period 1981-82. The co-financing
arrangements have been agreed with ADB according to a
Letter of Credit Administration under which ADB will be
the lead co-financing institution and will be responsible
for the supervision of the project. The proposed project
is expected to benefit about 500 subborrowers whose total
fixed investment cost is estimated at US$8.4 million.
These subprojects would help increase the involvement of
the indigenous population in the economy and would
generate much needed opportunities for earning cash
incomes. The risks associated with the prcoject stem from
DBSI's relative lack of experience in development banking.
One risk is that with the planned departure! of the
expatriate consultants by the end of 1981, the local
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
staff may lack the knowledge and experience necessary to
make sound project financing decisions. ADB's close
supervision will be required to ensure that the local
staff are fully capable of assuming the management role
of the departing expatriates. A second risk is the
growing number of loans in arrears to DBSI which have for
the most part been made to borrowers in rural areas. The
establishment of branch offices should improve DBSI's
ability to more closely supervise and collect on these
loans.
Estimated                   IDA FY:          1981    1982   1983   1984
Disbursements:                            ---- (US$ million)
Annual           -       0.62   0.75   0.13
Cumulative       -       0.62   1.37   1.50
Rate of Return:    n.a.
Appraisal           This report has been prepared on the basis of an
Report:           ADB report entitled "Appraisal of Development
Bank of Solomon Islands (Second Loan)", dated
November 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
SOLOMON ISLANDS FOR A
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SOLOMON ISLANDS PROJECT
l.        I clibmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
.rc i to Solomon Islands for SDR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) on
st ,iiard IDA terms to co-finance a Development Bank of Solomon Islands (DBSI)
Project with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which has appraised the
project and will be the lead co-financing institution as well as being
responsible for supervision of the project. ADB will provide a loan for the
equivalent of US$2.0 million for this project, for a total financial support
for DBSI of US$3.5 million. The Government would relend the US$3.5 million
of the proceeds of the IDA credit and the ADB loan to DBSI at 5%' interest
p.a., for a period of 15 years with six years' of grace. DBSI would onlend
the US$3.5 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit and the AD]3 loan to its
subborrowers at rates of interest varying from an effective 6-11% p.a.,
depending on the subloan size and economic sector of the subproject, with an
average interest rate of about 10.1% p.a. This report and the draft legal
documents are based on ADB's appraisal of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Bank Group's first report since the country's independence
(The Solomon Islands: An Introductory Economic Report, No. 2553-SOL) is
dated December 18, 1979. Basic country data are given in Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Solomon Islands, which constitutes a scattered archipelago east
of Papua New Guinea, has been i British protectorate since 1893, and gained
its independance in July 1978f The country has a population of just over
200,000 and a per capita GNP/of US$385.  Six main islands account for most of
the population and the land area of some 29,000 sq km. Although the
population is racially homo eneous (about 93% Melanesian), at least 87
vernacular languages are spoken. Most of the population reside in small,
widely dispersed settlementls along the coasts; 60% of the people live in
localities with fewer than (100 inhabitants and more than 80% in localities
with fewer than 200. The capital city of Honiara, situated on Guadalcanal,
the largest island, has 16,000 inhabitants; other urban centers have less
than 2,000 inhabitants each. Inter-island shipping is the main mode of



- 2 -
transportation due to the country's division into numerous islands, a low
population density and the dispersion of the population in small settlements
along coastal areas.
4.         Solomon Islands is a predominantly agricultural country.
Subsistence (nonmonetary) production is an important component of total
output. It contributes 40% of GDP, and nine out of ten households are
engaged in subsistence food production to some extent. As is typical of the
islands of the Pacific, the basic needs of the population are reasonably
well met from subsistence activity. Reflecting the size of the subsistence
sector, the proportion of the labor force engaged in paid employment is
limited. At the time of the 1976 census, only 21% of the labor force was
employed as full-time wage earners; an additional 7% of the labor force
derived some cash income, mostly from copra or market gardening; thus, only
28% of the labor force was engaged in cash earning occupations at that
time.
5.         The economy has demonstrated remarkable dynamism in recent years.
Between 1973-78, real incomes grew at an annual average rate of 7.4%, which,
even after allowing for the country s unusually high annual population growth
rate of 3.4%, resulted in an increase in real per capita income of 4%
annually.  Sustained expansion and increasing diversity of exports provided
the main stimulus to growth. Exports as a proportion of GDP grew from 21%
in 1960 to 37% in 1978, and while copra accounted for almost 90% of exports
in 1960, copra, fish, timber and palm oil each accounted for a sizable
fraction of total export proceeds in 1978. Large scale commercial
operations dominate production of all major exports except copra, which is
the main smallholder cash crop.
Development Issues
6.         The Government's development strategy, as reflected in the draft
second National Development Plan (NDP), 1980-84, recognizes the critical
importance of expanding and diversifying opportunities for earning cash
incomes, balanced development of smallholder agriculture and educational
progress in the country-s future development. Rapid growth of the working
age population, the likelihood of a growing proportion of the labor force
seeking cash-earning opportunities and the anticipated slow growth of formal
wage and salary employment suggest that the creation of cash earning
activities in the rural sector must be accelerated if the demand for money
incomes is to be reasonably met. The importance of increased participation
of the rural population in commercial agriculture is recognized in the Plan,
which allocates substantial resources to extension services, research,
transportation, marketing and credit. Measures to reduce the high rate of
population growth will also be needed to maintain the population's standard
of living in the long term.



- 3 -
7.         The country faces formidable problems in the educatLonal area.  As
recently as 1975, almost one-half of the adult population had not received
any formal schooling and only 5.5% had received education above the primary
level.  Rapid educational progress is essential for increasing the citizens
participation in the economy: severe limitations of local skilled manpower
and capital have necessitated a heavy reliance on foreign skills and
capital, leading to a high (about 30%) foreign participation in the wages,
salaries and profits ge-rated in Solomon Islands.  The Plan has rightly
identified the main prio.i.ies  .O rlucation: to improve quality and increase
the enrollment ratio (presently 70%) in primary education, as well as to
substantially expand enrollments at secondary schools.
8.        Reflecting the public sector s growing involvement in development,
total Central Government expenditures between 1973-78 grew at an average
annual rate of 10% in real terms, with development expenditures growing
somewhat faster. Since the UK financed all development expenditures and
provided grants for the recurrent budget, domestic resources did not
constitute a constraint to development. In recent years, foreign resources
have financed about 45% of total Central Government expenditures.
Recognizing the need for greater efforts to mobilize domestic resources in
the future, the Government has taken a number of policy initiatives. The
budget proposals for 1980 envisage the virtual elimination of the grant for
the recurrent budget, and opportunities for domestic borrowing from financial
institutions have begun to be utilized. In addition, the National Provident
Fund, established at the end of 1976, is emerging as a growing source of
nonbank borrowing. Other policies to raise the country s low rate of
domestic savings, estimated at 5% of GDP, include acquisition of equity in a
commercial bank, and issue of savings certificates for sale through post
offices; these measures should contribute to much needed improvement in
savings facilities, particularly in rural areas.
9.         The country's low population density, the small fraction of land
currently under cultivation, sufficient rainfall, and relatively abundant
fisheries resources suggest a substantial long-term potential for growth based
on further development of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The
implementation of one or two bauxite mining projects, which could greatly
enhance the country's foreign exchange receipts and tax revernue, is also a
distinct possibility in the 1980s.
External Sector
10.       External capital assistance almost tripled between 1973-78, rising
from US$5.2 million to US$14.4 million, and the prospects for assistance over
the plan period are also good. The UK, which accounted for a.most all
external assistance in the past, is committed to provide development aid of



- 4 -
L26 million (US$61 million) over 1978-81 as part of the independence
settlement. It will remain a major source of external assistance, although
concessional funds from both multilateral and bilateral sources have already
begun to supplement UK assistance. ADB is the main source of multilateral
finance, but assistance has also been received from the European Development
Fund (EDF) and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Australia and Japan are the major new sources of bilateral grants, and New
Zealand is also expected to provide continuing support at a more modest
level. Private foreign investment also plays an important role in the
country's development.
11.       With the UK providing all development aid in the form of grants,
the country's external public debt and debt servicing are negligible. At
the end of 1978, disbursed and outstanding public debt amounted to a mere
US$1.2 million, and debt servicing payments in respect of this debt were
US$16,000, or only 0.04% of exports of goods and services. The future
investment rates needed to achieve a satisfactory improvement in the living
standards of a fast-growing population as well as a growing use of loans
from multilateral institutions will tend to raise future debt servicing
obligations. In view of this, and the country's low per capita GNP, narrow
revenue base and vulnerability to movements in world prices of primary
commodities, it is desirable that Solomon Islands' external public capital
requirements should continue to be met largely through grants and loans on
concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       This proposed project constitutes the first IDA Credit to
Solomon Islands. As part of a general strategy of cost-effective lending to
the small Pacific Island countries, the Bank Group intends from time to time
to lend through co-financing operations with the Asian Development
Bank (ADB). The proposed credit is one of the first of these operations.
The next such operation in Solomon Islands will be to support the Lungga
hydroelectric scheme scheduled for FY82.
13.       The first direct lending operation (as distinct from co-financing
with the ADB) is planned for FY82 and will be a multisectoral credit
stressing support for primary education with a small subcomponent for rural
transport.  The general pattern of lending for this small country will thus
consist of a direct lending operation every few years, and more frequent



small-scale projects, co-financed with the ADB. The Bank Group lending
strategy is conditioned to some extent by the activities of other well-
established donors and lenders. In general, however, the highlest priority
for Bank Group involvement will be accorded to those projects that address
the problems of increasing rural cash incomes and improving and extending the
educational system.  The project proposed herein is clearly associated with
the first problem area, and the planned direct lending operation in FY82 will
focus on the primary education system.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
14.       Expansion of the scarce opportunities for earning cash incomes in
rural areas and increased involvement of the indigenous population in the
economy are major objectives of development policy in Solomon Islands.
Limited availability of finance for small-scale agricultural and commercial
activities has contributed to slow progress toward the attainment of these
objectives. Development Bank of Solomon Islands (DBSI) has a growing role
to play in rectifying prevailing deficiencies in the allocation of credit.
Agricultural Sector
15.       Agriculture, including forestry, livestock and fisheries, is the
largest sector in the economy, accounting for about 70% of GDP, most of
exports and some 30% of total paid employment. Much of the land is under
forest with only a small proportion presently cultivated for subsistence food
production and cash cropping. Timber extraction is a major activity. The
climate and generally fertile soils are conducive to most tropical crop pro-
duction, and with the generally low population density, there is ample land
suitable for further cultivation and raising cattle. The fishing industry
also has considerable potential, although commercial development has only
begun in recent years.
16.       An estimated 24,052 sq km (83%) of the total land area is customary
land held by tribal or extended family groups. The ownership as well as
right-to-use of customary land have been, and continue to be, subject to
frequent disputes, especially when the land is being considered for commercial
development. The problem can be attributed to the presence of rival
claimants and the absence of cadastral surveys, which make the determination
of ownership a virtually impossible task. Registration of customary land is
being encouraged in the hope that this will reduce the frequency of tlle
disputes and make more land available for agricultural development.



- 6 -
17.       Subsistence food production, which is based on a system of shifting
agriculture or agriculture with bush fallow, consists mainly of root crops,
which form the staple diet, and some vegetables. Cash incomes from crop
production and wage employment supplement rural household subsistence
incomes. Copra is the main smallholder cash crop; about two-thirds of rural
households are involved in coconut growing. Smallholder cash incomes from
market produce, beef, cocoa and spices have also expanded in recent years.
18.       Export production from large-scale commercial operations has
provided the main momentum for growth, however. The smallholder has not
participated in the expansion of timber, palm oil, fish and rice exports
since plantations account for the bulk of tituber production, while palm oil
and rice are confined to estates, and local involvement in the fishing
industry is limited. Large-scale agricultural operations were, until
recently, owned wholly by foreign companies, but the establishment of the
Government Shareholding Agency (GSA) has enabled the Government to acquire
equity participation in all major commercial enterprises.
19.       The Government recognizes that the most effective way of raising
rural incomes at a satisfactory pace and of creating sufficient cash earning
opportunities would be through the increased participation of the rural
population in commercial agriculture. The measures proposed in the Second
NDP to develop smallholder cash agriculture include:
(a) Expansion of Credit Facilities. This is being achieved through
increased participation of DBSI, established in 1978, which
has greatly improved the availability of development finance for
all sectors, including agriculture;
(b) Substantial Expansion and Upgrading of Skills Required for
Agricultural Extension Services.  The upgrading and expansion of
extension staff has been accorded high priority since the provi-
sion of adequate extension services is essential to any
significant development and diversification of smallholder
production;
(c) Strengthening of Marketing. This will involve a better network of
cooperatives and rural trading and marketing centers; and
(d) Improvement in Road Transportation and Inter-Island Shipping.
The inadequacy and irregularity of inter-island shipping services
are a particularly serious constraint to agricultural development.
The Government strategy to improve the efficiency of inter-island
shipping coraprises expansion of its marine fleet; subsidization
of selected routes which are currently uneconomic but which are



- 7 -
likely to bring substantial potential benefits; and upgrading
of the services provided by small local operators through the
provision of finance and training.
Industrial Sector
20.       The country's small manufacturing sector has grown rapidly in
recent years. The main areas of growth have been in the agro-based
industries, such as palm oil, saw and rice milling, and fish canning. Other
manufacturing activities include boat building, rattan and wood furniture,
fiberglass goods, shell costume jewelry, tobacco, soft drinks, clothing and
the manufacture of nails and soap. In 1979, manufacturing employment
accounted for 10% of paid employment. Notwithstanding its recent growth,
the manufacturing sector is still at an initial stage of development.
Because few opportunities for import substitution have been exploited, there
is considerable scope for a wide range of small industries catering to the
domestic market. Specific industries which show a potential for development
include the manufacture of beer and footwear, industries utilizing timber
and plastics, and the expansion of the soft drink and clothing industries.
21.       Full utilization of the country s industrial potentiaL will
require coordinated and sustained efforts. Government support to the
manufacturing sector has thus far taken three main forms. First, fiscal
incentives are granted to selected enterprises; second, part of the equity
capital requirements for large foreign investments are met through the
GSA; third, the limited lending by commercial banks to industrial
enterprises is being significantly supplemented through the DBS[.
Financial Sector
22.       Until very recently, the country's financial system consisted
primarily of three private commercial banks and a network of their savings
bank agencies in rural areas. Since 1976, however, with the establishment
of the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority (SIMA), the Development Bank of
Solomon Islands (DBSI), the National Provident Fund (NPF), and the Government
Shareholding Agency (GSA), a diversified financial structure has emerged.
23.       SIMA performs most central banking functions.  It is empowered,
among other things, to regulate the supply of money, advise the Government
on banking and monetary matters and promote a sound financial structure.
Specific instruments available to influence credit conditions include powers
to prescribe reserve ratios of financial institutions and to grant loans and
advances to banks. By ensuring that the financial system responds to the
economy's varied credit needs as well as the demand for appropriate savings
instruments, SIMA can make a major contribution to development.



- 8 -
24.       The three commercial banks are branches of foreign banks:
Australian and New Zealand Banking Group, Commonwealth Banking Corporation
(Australia) and the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. Honiara
and one or two smaller urban centers are adequately served by the banks,
but rural areas lack adequate banking facilities. While the banks have had
considerable success in attracting deposits in urban areas, their efforts
to mobilize rural savings and to expand domestic lending, particularly to
small- and medium-sized indigenous enterprises, have been less successful.
Unable to find sufficient domestic investment opportunities, the banks have
traditionally held substantial funds overseas; the bulk of these funds were
exchanged for deposits with SIMA in October 1978. At the end of 1979,
bank reserves (including deposits with SIMA) were equivalent to 61% of their
deposits, and their loans and advances/deposits ratio amounted to only 38%.
A large share of bank credit has gone to the distribution and services
sectors, whose share in total bank credit outstanding in November 1979
amounted to 50%; this compares with the shares of industry and agriculture
of 5% and 26%, respectively. Moreover, the greater proportion of bank
lending has gone to large enterprises and statutory bodies. To influence
lending practices as well as savings facilities of the commercial banks, the
Government has decided to establish the National Bank of Solomon Islands
(NBSI), which would be owned jointly with the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation. The new bank is expected to take over the present activities
of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation from March 1981 onwards.
25.       The main functions of DBSI are to promote the participation of
Solomon Islanders in economic development, to foster rural development and to
stimulate processing and industrial activities. The results of the first two
years of DBSI's operations are encouraging. Loans approved by DBSI in 1978
and 1979 amounted to SI$4.0 million (US$4.4 million) compared to new loan
approvals by its predecessor, the Agricultural and Industrial Loans Board
(AILB), of about SI$200,000 (US$218,000) annually. It is also noteworthy
that over 90% of the number of loans approved in 1978 and 1979 were for
citizens and citizen-owned companies (as opposed to expatriates) and 40% of
the loans approved (by amount) were for persons and enterprises outside
Honiara. Although small loans (under SI$5,000) amounted to only 20% of the
total loans approved, they accounted for over 90% of the number of loans
approved in 1978 and 1979. A large proportion of the available finance has
gone into agriculture and manufacturing which accounted for 27% and 22%,
respectively, of the total loans outstanding of SI$3.0 million at the end of
1979. The remaining 51% was allocated among commerce (31%), transport and
other service (13%) and construction (7%).



-9-
26.       NPF, established at the end of 1976, is essentially a compulsory
savings scheme for all wage and salary earners, although it is also open to
the self-employed. Contributions amounting to 10% of wage earnings are
divided equally between the employee and employer. About 23,000 members
contribute SI$2.5 million to the NPF annually. The NPF lends to both the
public and private sectors.
27.       GSA was created in 1977.  Although the agency's resources have so
far come from the development budget, the agency has powers to borrow both
domestically and externally. By the end of 1979, the GSA had invested SI$6.8
million in a wide range of enterprises.
28.       As of September 1, 1980, the deposit rates offered by commercial
banks ranged from 3.50-6.50% p.a. Lending rates by the commercial banks
vary from 7.25-7.50% p.a. for small personal loans, to 9.50-16.00% p.a. for
overdrafts. Given the current rates of inflation of about 10%, positive real
interest rates are only achieved on overdrafts. DBSI's effective lending
rates (6-11%) are lower than the prevailing commercial bank rate's (para. 34).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
29.       The proposed credit to DBSI would be the second co-financing
operation undertaken between ADB and IDA and the first such oper,ation for
Solomon Islands. While this would be IDA's first project with D:BSI, ADB has
a well-established relationship with this institution. In addition to
meeting part of DBSI-s foreign currency requirements, the proposed credit
will assist DBSI in continuing to strengthen its institutional c,apability and
will provide needed finance to indigenous entrepreneurs for productive
investments in the agricultural, industrial, commerce, transportation and
service sectors.
30.       The proposed project was identified and prepared by the Government
and ADB; an ADB mission appraised the project in April 1980 and negotiations
between ADB and the Government were held in Manila on November 25, 1980.
IDA negotiations were conducted by telex from February 11 to February 18,
1981, with Solomon Islands delegation headed by Mr. J.H. Cornish,
Undersecretary, Ministry of Finance. An Appraisal Report prepared by ADB,
dated November 1980, is being circulated separately. The appraisal report
fully justifies the proposed investment. Supplementary project data are
provided in Section III of Annex III.



- 10 -
31.       Status and Progress of First ADB Loan.  ADB has provided three
technical assistance grants to DBSI and its predecessor AILB in 1974, 1976
and 1979, respectively. In April 1979, ADB approved its first loan to
DBSI for US$2.0 million which became effective in July 1979. Although the
loan was not expected to be fully committed before July 1982, the expansion
of DBSI's operations has caused utilization to be faster than anticipated and
the loan was expected to be fully committed by year-end 1980. ADB is
satisfied with DBSI's progress and the manner in which its first loan has
been implemented. A sample of 74 ADB-financed subloans amounting to US$1.2
million (60% of the ADB line of credit) indicates that these subprojects have
benefitted about 368 persons with additional annual wages and cash income
amounting to about US$760,000. The total revenue and gross value-added by
these subprojects have been estimated at about US$2.7 million and US$1.2
million respectively.
32.       The proposed credit of SDR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million equivalent)
together with ADB's proposed loan of US$2.0 million would cover about 60% of
DBSI's estimated foreign currency requirement of about US$5.8 million for the
period 1981-82. In accordance with the agreements contained in the Letter of
Credit Administration between ADB, IDA and DBSI, the IDA funds would be
administered by ADB and the co-financing arrangements would be such that
disbursements from the two lines of credit are made on a pro rata basis.
DBSI would use the proceeds of the ADB loan and IDA credit to make subloans
to finance the foreign exchange cost of specific development projects. ADB
and DBSI have agreed upon a tentative sectoral distribution plan which would
allocate 40% of loan and credit proceeds to agriculture, 30% to the services
sector (commerce, transportation and shipping), and 30% to manufacturing and
construction. This sectoral allocation takes into account past loan
approvals, applications pending approval at the time of appraisal, government
priorities and the anticipated areas of DBSI's major activities. These
targets are to be flexibly applied and will be reviewed periodically by ADB.
Within each sector, DBSI is to give priority to making subloans to smaller
enterprises, particularly those located in rural areas and owned by local
nationals (Paragraph 1 of the Schedule of the Project Agreement).
33.       Relending Terms.  The proposed credit would be made to Solomon
Islands on standard IDA terms. ADB's proposed loan would have a repayment
period of 40 years including a 10-year grace period and an interest rate of
1% p.a. The Government would relend the proceeds of the credit to DBSI
according to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA (Article III,
Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement). The Government will
allow DBSI a fixed repayment term of 15 years including 6 years' grace and
will bear the foreign exchange risk. The fixed repayment period will enable
DBSI to reuse some principal repayments by subborrowers to make new loans and
should strengthen DBSI's resource position (Paragraph 4 of the Schedule of
the Project Agreement). As DBSI is owned and funded by the Government and



- 11 -
plays an important role in the Government's development strategy, the fixed
repayment term will also benefit the Government by reducing DBSI's demand for
additional local currency funds for its operations. According to Article II,
Section 2.04 (b) of the Project Agreement, DBSI subloans will have a maximum
maturity of 15 years, including a grace period of up to 3 years (except in
the case of loans for cattle, cocoa and coconut projects whose grace periods
may be up to 5 years because of their longer gestation periods); the actual
subloan maturities are likely to be much shorter.
34.        The Government would charge DBSI interest at 5% p.a.  DBSI's
effective interest rate to the final subborrower will range from 6-11%
p.a./l DBSI will periodically review its interest rates and shall consult
with IDA prior to effecting any change in the above interest rates (Para. 2
of the Schedule of the Project Agreement). Because the major portion
of DBSI's portfolio does carry interest rates of about 10-11%, the average
lending rate on subloans during 1980-82 is estimated at 10.1% which will
provide an overall interest spread of 5.1% to DBSI. Although the inflation
rate is currently about 10%, the Government considers DBSI's lending rates
appropriate given the social objectives the Government wishes to address
through DBSI.  DBSI-s spread of 5.1% is adequate to cover its operating costs
and to strengthen its financial position. As the country's development bank,
DBSI has been entrusted with the responsibility for lending to relatively
small and inexperienced entrepreneurs and for helping to implement the
Government's policy decision to increase the participation of Solomon
Islanders in the development of the country's economy. To compensate for and
further encourage DBSI in this costly and high-risk lending, the Government
provides both domestic and foreign currency resources to DBSI at relatively
low cost.
35.        DBSI's Legal Framework and Scope of Activities.  DBS-[ started
operations on January ', 1978, when it assumed all the assets and liabilities
of AILB. The dissolution of AILB was the outcome of an ADB-sponsored study
which indicated that Solomon Islands needed a full-fledged devtelopment
finance institution to channel development credit. DBSI was established as a
/1  These interest rates apply to indigenous borrowers; expatriate borrowers
are charged 1% more than the rate applicable to local borrowers. The
rates vary according to the subloan amount and subproject's economic
sector: cattle loans and micro-loans (loans of up to US$1,090 made to
local nationals) are charged 6% p.a., meat processing loans 8% p.a.,
agriculture loans 10% p.a. and all other loans 11% p.a.



- 12 -
public authority under the Development Bank of the Solomon Islands Act which
was enacted in December 1977. DBSI's main objective is to assist in the
economic and social development of Solomon Islands within the Government's
overall development plans and strategies, giving particular emphasis to
promoting the participation of Solomon Islanders in economic and rural
development and the stimulation of processing and industrial activities.
DBSI can make loans and assist in or promote the establishment, maintenance,
development or reorganization of enterprises engaged in agriculture,
industry, construction, mining, tourism, transport, communications and
services. Under the DBSI Act, 51% of DBSI's share capital is to be held by
the Government, while the remaining 49% may be allotted to any person or
institution approved by the Ministry of Finance. At present, the Government
holds all of DBSI's shares. DBSI's authorized capital amounts to SI$5.0
million (US$6.2 million), of which SI$2.9 million (US$3.6 million) will be
paid in by December 31, 1980. The Government has agreed to increase DBSI's
paid-in capital by SI$0.5 million (US$0.6 million) each year during the
period 1981-83 (Schedule 2, paragraph 6 of the Development Credit Agreement).
36.       Operating Policies.  DBSI, at ADB's suggestion, adopted a Policy
Statement shortly after its inception in 1978, which outlines DBSI's
development role and sets out guidelines for its operations, general policies
and procedures and financial and banking practices. DBSI has generally
adhered to the guidelines set out in its Policy Statement and has agreed not
to substantially amend the Statement without the prior agreement of IDA
(Schedule 2, paragraph 2 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Management, Organization and Staff
37.       Control over DBSI's operations is vested in a nine member Board of
Directors composed of the General Manager, in an ex-officio capacity, and
eight other members appointed by the Minister of Finance. The current Board
members have considerable expertise in either agricultural, industrial,
commercial or financial matters. The Board meets once a month to discuss
policy matters, review operations and approve proposals for financial
assistance in excess of SI$10,000 (US$12,300).
38.       Since its establishment, DBSI has been managed by expatriate
consultants provided for under ADB's second and third technical assistance
projects. DBSI's present general manager is an expatriate consultant who has
held this position since August 1978. In accordance with the Government's
policy of replacing expatriates with Solomon Islanders and with a provision
in the first ADB Loan Agreement with DBSI, the Government appointed a
suitably qualified Solomon Islander to DBSI's Board of Directors in January
1980 who, in November 1980, was appointed General Manager of DBSI. The newly



- 13 -
appointed General Manager assumed full responsibility of DBSI ats of February
6, 1981, thus meeting one of the conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit. The previous General Manager will assume an advisory role until the
expiry of his present term in June 1981 or the expiry of his proposed
extended term in November 1981 (Schedule 2, paragraph 4(a) of t:he
Development Credit Agreement). ADB finds that these arrangements should
help to ensure a smooth transition of DBSI's management and considers them
to be satisfactory.
39.       DBSI's operations are carried out by its Head Office and five
branches. The Head Office is divided into the Operations Department and an
Administration/Finance Department. In order to cope with expanding
operations, DBSI opened four branch offices in 1979 and one branch office in
1980 /1 to which it transferred the main operational work of loan appraisal
and supervision. One of the Operations Department divisions and three branch
offices are managed by expatriates. The services of the four expatriates
have been provided under an Australian grant; each of these four expatriates,
however, has been assigned senior local staff as understudies who will
assume full managerial responsibilities by the end of 1981. D]3SI's future
plans include the addition of a Business Advisory Division at the Head
Office.
40.       As of September 30, 1980, DBSI-s staff (excluding the General
Manager) numbered 65 compared with 26 as of January, 1979, and included 24
officers, 4 of whom were expatriates. This increase in staff 'was required to
cope with DBSI's expanding operations, the opening of its five branch
offices and the need to recruit and train local staff before the expiration of
the contracts of the expatriate staff. DBSI expects to further increase its
total staff to 83 by year-end 1981 which should be sufficient to meet
requirements through 1983. While DBSI's staff strength is supplemented by
extension services personnel of various Government ministries, this dependence
will gradually diminish as DBSI develops its own trained staff. The majority
of DBSI's staff have only high school level academic training. Staff
expertise, however, is being upgraded through on-the-job training combined
with in-house and external training programs; staff are also provided with
financial incentives to enroll in courses that add to their academic
qualifications. The results of staff training have so far been encouraging,
/1 The branch offices are located in Honiara; Gizo, Western Province;
Auki, Malaita Province; Kira Kira, Makira Province; and Buala, Santa
Isabel Province.



- 14 -
but the local staff still require more training and experience in appraisal
and follow-up of larger projects involving more complex economic, marketing
and financial analyses. Under ADB's close supervision, DBSI will continue to
give high priority to staff training and take the necessary steps to develop
and conduct further in-house training programs.
41.       In order to implement the staff training programs indicated above,
DBSI is exploring the possibility of retaining the services of two
expatriates through 1982. DBSI also intends to recruit two expatriates to
head its Accounting and Business Advisory Services divisions to supplement
and strengthen its local staff who have limited knowledge and experience
in these areas. ADB considers that with these arrangements, the management
and supervision of DBSI-s operations would continue to be satisfactory after
the completion of ADB-s technical assistance programs. DBSI shall keep IDA
informed on an annual basis of the progress of its training programs
(Paragraph 8 of the Schedule of the Project Agreement).
Procedures
42.       DBSI-s operational procedures for project evaluation and approval,
documentation, loan disbursement and follow-up have been formulated by ADB-s
consultants under its technical assistance programs. Most loan applications
are now received, screened and appraised at the newly-opened branch offices.
The Head Office provides overall guidance, supervision and control and only
processes the larger loan applications received for commercial and industrial
projects. Some applications, particularly from the more remote areas, are
still being received and processed by extension officers from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Lands, and occasionally by other technical experts from
various ministries, but DBSI is responsible for the final decision on
approval of these loans.
Procurement
43.       Goods financed by DBSI are mostly procured by means of
off-the-shelf purchases from local importers. The project sponsor obtains
quotations from local suppliers on the basis of which DBSI ensures
that the price of the goods to be procured is reasonable and competitive.
These procurement procedures are considered to be satisfactory as the size
and nature of procurement under DBSI loans precludes the use of inter-
national competitive bidding or limited competitive bidding procedures.
Procurement procedures for goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed credit are established in Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement. To be eligible for reimbursement under either
the proposed IDA credit or ADB loan, the goods or equipment to be procured
must originate from a member country of either institution. If the country



- 15 -
of origin is a member of both IDA and ADB, reimbursement will be on a
pro rata basis. If, however, the country of origin is only a member of
either ADB or IDA, then the relevant institution will be responsible for the
entire amount to be reimbursed.
Disbursement
44.       DBSI's disbursements are made directly to the supplier of material
after reviewing, where applicable, the progress of the project. With regard
to reimbursing DBSI, the proceeds of the proposed credit and ADB's proposed
loan may only be used to finance the reasonable foreign currency cost of
goods and services required to carry out a specific development project.
Withdrawal applications will be reviewed by ADB in accordance with the terms
of the letter of credit administration (para. 32) and disbursements from the
IDA credit are to be made upon ADB's instructions. The reimbursement
procedures discussed below represent the agreements reached between ADB and
DBSI with which IDA reimbursement will conform (Article II, Section 2.02 (a)
of the Development Credit Agreement). With respect to direct foreign
expenditures, the reasonable foreign currency cost of imported goods and
services is to be reimbursed. Local currency reimbursement will be allow-ad
for: goods previously imported (the reasonable foreign currency cost is to
be eligible for reimbursement); goods produced in Solomon Islands from
imported components or raw materials (75% of the invoiced price is to be
eligible for reimbursement); and construction works (60% of the cost of
construction works carried out by contractors who are citizens of Solomon
Islands is eligible for reimbursment).
Operational Performance
45.       DBSI's loan operations significantly expanded in 1979, the second
year of its operations, with 1,044 loans amounting to SI$2.5 million
(US$2.7 million) approved compared to the 289 loans for SI$1.5 million
(US$1.6 million) approved in 1978. The large increase in approvals
was mainly due to DBSI's increased promotional activities through its
branches in outlying islands and improved loan processing procedures.
There were no equity investments approved in 1979, while two were
approved for a total of SI$80,000 (US$87,200) in 1978.
46.       Loan approvals to the agricultural sector accounted for about 28%
and 32% of total approvals in 1978 and 1979, respectively, compared to 38% for
the period 1975-77. The subsectors accounting for the largest share of loan
approvals by amount were rural infrastructure, which includes the purchase
of tractors, farm implements and vans and the construction of farm houses,
fisheries and forestry. The share of the manufacturing sector in loan



- 16 -
approvals dropped from 27% to 14% between 1978 and 1979, while the
construction industry share decreased from 17% to 7% over the same period.
Loan approvals to the services sector, however, (including commerce, shipping
and transport) increased from 28% of total approvals in 1978 to 47% in 1979.
Loan approvals to the shipping subsector increased by about 275% from
SI$51,000 (US$55,590) in 1978 to SI$191,000 (US$208,190) in 1979. It is
expected that this subsector will account for a larger share of DBSI's
portfolio in the future as Solomon Islands' inter-island shipping services
are improved and expanded.
47.       The proportion of loans approved for Solomon Islanders as opposed
to expatriates improved in 1979. Compared with 1978 when 92% of loan
approvals by number and 61% by amount went to local nationals, in 1979, 99%
by number and 97% by amount of loan approvals went to Solomon Islanders.
48.       Due mainly to the large number of micro-loans /1 in DBSI's 1979
portfolio, the average size of loan approvals decreased from SI$5,098
(US$5,557) in 1978 to SI$2,426 (US$2,644) in 1979. Under its micro-loans
program, DBSI makes loans of up to SI$1,000 (US$1,090) to local nationals,
largely in rural areas, at an effective interest rate of 6% p.a. The large
number of micro-loans approved in 1979 also had an impact on the data on loan
maturities as these loans are usually for two years or less. About 92% of
the number of loans approved in 1979 had maturities of less than 3 years,
compared to 79% in 1978. The weighted average maturity by number decreased
from 3.2 years in 1978 to 2.7 years in 1979. By amount, the proportion of
loan approvals with maturities greater than four years declined from 71% in
1978 to 54% in 1979.
49.       With the establishment of its five branches in outlying areas,
DBSI's loans should continue to be weighted toward small loans with short
maturities since most of the loans approved by the branches will be
micro-loans. The proceeds of the IDA credit and ADB loan would be eligible
for lending under the micro-loans program. Of the 322 subloans made thus
far under ADB's first loan, 227 (70%) were micro-loans, although the average
size of subloans approved as of June 30, 1980 was about US$5,500.
50.       Under the proposed project, the free limit would be US$30,000, the
same as was established by ADB under its first loan to DBSI in 1979 (Article
II, Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement). In order to
ensure a wide and balanced distribution of subloans, DBSI will not make any
subloan, irrespective of the source of financing, in excess of US$250,000
without IDA's prior concurrence (Paragraph 3 of the Schedule of the
Project Agreement).
/1 91% of the loan approvals by number and 12% by amount were micro-loans.



- 17 -
Economic Impact of DBSI-s Operations
51.       DBSI is the only source of long-term finance for development
projects in the Solomon Islands. Through its micro-loans program, which is
mainly administered by its five branches and directly serves a sizable part
of the total population, DBSI has become the first institution to lend to
Solomon Islanders in remote areas. Of the 1,671 loans approved by DBSI
between January 1, 1978 and March 31, 1980, 80% have been for amounts less
than SI$5,000 (US$6,150). Nearly all of these loans are to borrowers in
remote districts and will generate additional employment and cash income in
rural areas where average cash income per capita was only US$44 in 1978
(using 1975 as the base year) and where about 14% of rural households
reported no cash income.
52.       One of DBSI-s most important contributions to the country's
economic development has been in the transportation sector, particularly
the shipping and air transport subsectors. A total of 31% (by amount) of
DBSI's loan approvals have been in the transportation sector;/l it is
expected that this sector will account for a larger share of DBSI's
portfolio in the future as the improvement of the nation's transport system
is vital to the development of the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Financial Position
53.       DBSI's total assets as of December 31, 1979, stood at about SI$4.0
million (US$4.4 million), an increase of 46% over the previous year. About
two-thirds of the increase in total assets was attributable to the increase
in term loans. As of December 31, 1979, DBSIVs total portfolio accounted for
76% of total assets. DBSI has a large equity base in relation to its assets,
due largely to the capitalization of long-term Government loans in 1978.
Consequently, the debt/equity ratio of 0.4:1 as of year-end 1979, was well
below the maximum limit of 3:1 provided for in the loan documents between ADB
and DBSI. The current ratio of 10:1 as of year-end 1979 is quite high
because current maturities of the loan portfolio form a relatiEvely large
proportion of current assets and because DBSI has few current liabilities as
most of its long-term debts are still in the grace period. Provisions for
possible losses are made annually and, as of March 31, 1980, amounted to
SI$130,000 (US$159,900), or 4.1% of the total outstanding portfolio.
Between 1978 and 1979, DBSI-s net income declined from SI$49,1833 (US$54,318)
/1 This includes one loan for SI$0.11 million (US$0.12 million) to the
country-s only airline and three loans for SI$0.65 million (US$0.71
million) to three shipping companies serving outlying islands.



- 18 -
to SI$5,229 (US$5,700) due to: the additional administrative expenses
associated with the increased staff strength and the establishment of four
new branch offices; the provision for bad debts (3% of approvals) which was
relatively large due to the increase in loan approvals; and an extraordinary
charge of SI$29,232 (US$31,863). This extraordinary charge consisted of
legal expenses arising from litigation brought against AILB (DBSI's
predecessor) by a client in 1972. The Government assured ADB that if any
similar cases arose in the future, it would provide the legal assistance
required.
54.       Total arrears on DBSI's portfolio as of March 31, 1980 represented
only 3.1% of the amount of outstanding loans in the repayment period. While
the amount of arrears as a percentage of loans in the repayment period has
remained relatively low and constant over the period Decembgr 1978-March
1980, the number of loans in arrears has increased steadily from 135 to 501.
The number of loans in arrears as a percentage of loans in the repayment
period has increased from 29.5% in 1978 to 45.3% as of March 30, 1980, which
indicates that DBSI is finding it difficult to collect on its smaller loans
as they are made to borrowers who mainly live in remote areas. This rela-
tively high number of loans in arrears is not unusual for a small
enterprise credit program. The establishment of the five branch offices
is expected to increase DBSI-s ability to more closely supervise these
smaller loans. Furthermore, as a good portion (nearly 40%) of the number
of loans outstanding are less than 3 months in arrears, it is expected that
through better communication between DBSI and its borrowers and more
extensive follow-up procedures, a good proportion of the arrears can be
recovered.
Projected Operations and Resource Requirement
55.        DBSI's loan approvals during 1981-84 are expected to grow by SI$1
million (US$1.23 million) a year; equity investments are expected to be about
10% of the annual loan approvals. As of March 31, 1980, DBSI's project
pipeline totalled SI$12.5 million (US$15.4 million). Given the rapid growth
in DBSI's loan approvals in the last two years, its further institutional
strengthening as more indigenous staff assume operational responsibilities
and txe promotional and marketing efforts take hold, loan approval
projections appear to be realistic and attainable. DBSI's total assets are
expected to increase from SI$4 million (US$4.4 million) in 1979 to
SI$ 16.6 million (US$20.4 million) by December 31, 1984. The long-term debt!
equity ratio is projected to steadily increase from 0.8:1 in 1980 to 1.9:1
by 1984, but remains within the contractual limit of 3:1 (Article III,
Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
56.       On an approval basis, DBSI will require about SI$11 million
(US$13.5 million) to meet its resource requirements for the period 1981-82.
DBSI expects to meet its local currency requirement of US$7.0 million from



- 19 -
share capital contributions by the Government (US$1.2 million), additional
borrowings from NPF and SIMA (US$0.7 million) and the remainder through loan
repayments made in 1981-82. DBSI's foreign currency requirement for 1981-82
is estimated at US$6.6 million. DBSI proposes to raise most of this through
the joint IDA/ADB line of credit of US$3.5 million equivalent. The balance
is expected to be met from contributions from Australia/ New Zealand Aid
(US$0.3 million), a loan from the European Development Fund (US$1.0
million), and other unidentified sources.
Project Justification and Risks
57.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent) together with ADB's proposed loan of US$2.0 would contribute to
the achievement of the objectives of the Government's Second Development
Plan (NDP II) by augmenting DBSI's foreign currency resources for the
purpose of making medium- and long-term loans to the agriculture,
manufacturing, transport and services sectors. About 500 subprojects are
likely to benefit from the IDA/ADB co-financing project, involving a total
investment of US$9.5 million and generating approximately 2,800 new jobs
with about US$5.1 million in additional annual income. The 500 subprojects
are also expected to contribute an estimated annual value-adde<l of US$7.3
million.
58.       Since its establishment in January 1978, DBSI has made significant
contributions in providing needed finance to indigenous entrepreneurs for
productive investment; the proposed project would continue to assist DBSI in
its institution building efforts so that further contributions to the
country's economic development could be accomplished. While loans to larger
and more sophisticated industries (usually joint ventures with foreign
companies) are handled by the commercial banks, DBSI's assistance is mainly
extended to the smaller indigenous businesses. Through its lending
operations and particularly through its micro-loans program, D]3SI is
directly supporting an important governmental development objective of
encouraging iodigenous entrepreneurship. Furthermore, as illustrated by
DBSI's 1979 average loan size of SI$2,426 (US$2,644), DBSI is financing a
large number of very small loans thereby meetiog a significant financing
need of the population which was previously neglected by the commercial
banks due to their lack of branch networks and the high administrative costs
associated with such lending.  Through the accelerated creation of cash
earning activities in the rural sector, the proposed project will help
maintain the standard of living of the rural population.
59.       The risks associated with the project stem from DBSI's relative
lack of experience in development banking. Since its establishment in
1978, DBSI has been managed by expatriate consultants; the consultants,



- 20 -
however, are scheduled to be replaced by local staff by the end of 1981.
Staff training programs to improve the project appraisal and supervision
capabilities of local staff have been extensive over the last few years and
will continue to be important in the future. The risk remains, however,
that the local staff may lack the knowledge and experience necessary to make
sound project financing decisions after the departure of the expatriate
consultants. ADB's close supervision will be required to ensure that the
local staff are fully capable of assuming the management role of the
departing expatriates. The growing number of loans in arrears to DBSI
represents another risk for the project. Many of the accounts in arrears
represent very small loans (usually less than US$1,000) made to borrowers
in rural areas; the establishment of branch offices should improve DBSI's
ability to more closely supervise and collect on these loans.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
60.       The Development Credit Agreement between Solomon Islands and the
Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and DBSI, and the
recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed
separately.
61.       Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit are that the
newly appointed General Manager shall assume the full responsibility of
General Manager of DBSI (Schedule 2, paragraph 4(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement) and that ADB's loan agreement be effective (Article V,
Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 26, 1981



ANJNEX I
-21-                                                  Page 1 of 4
TABLE 3A
SOLOION ISLANDS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOLOMON ISLANDS                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIR1ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO   .)                                                               -   ST RECENT ESTIATE)-a
TOTAL              28.9
AGRICULTURAL.       0.93                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   I50.        220.0      430.0                 894.8                   1384.1
CNERGY CuNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF CuL-  EQUIVALENT)      50.0        132.0     200.0                 842.4                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       0.125         .161       .213
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.8/c         7.0/c      7.6/c               39.1                      63.'4
POPULATION PROJEUTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         0.435
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAh STAT'IONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATIUN DENSITY
PLR SQ. KM.                         4.0          6.0       7.0                 376.1                      28.1
PER SQ. EM,. AGRICULTURAL LAND    134.0        175.0     230.0                2350.4                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 IhS.                            ..         44.6      47.8                  40.4                     41.4
15-b4 YRS.                            ..         51.9      48.7                  56.2                     54.7
65 IhS. AND ABOVE                     ..          3.5       3.5                   3.4                       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 ..         2.6        3.5                   2.4                      2.7
URBAN                                ..         11.9       4.9/d                 4.1                      4.1
CRUDE BNITh RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..        41.0      49.0                  28.7                      34.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAUD)         ..        12.0       12.0                   7.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RAI                  ..          ..         ..                   1.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACLCPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..       3.4
USERS (PERCLNT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..                 39.0
FUOD AND NUTRITlON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          111.0        100.0     118.0                 116.9                     106.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEhT OF
REQUIREhENTS)                    81.0         80.0      81.0                 106.9                    107.4
PROEIlNS (GRAMS PER DAY)           40.0         41.0      42.0                  60.3                     65.4
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0         15.0      16.0                  18.8                      33.7
LhILI (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATIE       ..           ..         ..                   5.3                      8.4
lHEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        ..        51.0        ..                  63.0                      63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..          ..         ..                 52.8                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      31.0                  42.4                      65.)
URBAN                                ..           ..      95.0                  62.1                     80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      24.0                  29.7                     44.0
ACCESS TO EUCRETA DISPOSA. (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TuTAL                                 ..          ..      26.0/e                52.8                      62.3
URBAN                                ..           ..      94.0/e                71.1                      79.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      20.0/e                42.4                      29.5
POPULATION PEN PhYSICLAN                ..          ..    6250.0                4120.1                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..           ..     810.0                2213.6                    1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..           ..     325.0                 819.4                     480.3
URBAN                                ..           ..      80.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     434.0
ADlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..      18.0                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          5.4       5.6
URBAN                                ..          5.4       5.5
RURAL                                *-          5.4       5.6
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..       1.9
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TUFAI.                               ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..      80.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 22-                                                  Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3A
SOLOMON ISLAND- SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOLOMON ISLANDS                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGOTED AVEACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMA7E 5
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970  b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    ..        61.0       72.8                   98.6                     99.7
MALE                    ..           ..        ..                   99.2                    101.0
FEhALE                  ..          ..       58.8                   97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   ..          6.5       14.5                   55.5                     34.4
MALE                    ..           ..        ..                   60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                  ..          ..        6.1                   49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    ..            ..        9.5                   13.7                     38.2
hIGHEST 5 PER
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            21.01f       24.0       27.0                   34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                             ..        22.2       15.3                   28.5                     14.5
ADbLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         9.0         ..                   85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ,,        5.0                    9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         52.0      51.0                   118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                   39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..         ..                     ..                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           ..          ..       22.7
FEMIALE (PERCENT)                     ..          ..       16.8                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICOLTURE (PERCENT)                ..           ..       44.7                   51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   ,.           ..       15.0                   21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       28.0                   39.1                     31.5
hALE                                   ..           ..       47.0                   48.5                     48.9
FEhALE                                 ..           ..        9.5                   29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..           ..        1.2                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTIOh
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IN
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                  192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                     ..                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  182.5                    332.5
ESTIhATED POPULATION BELOW ADEQUATE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   honiara only;  /d 1970-76;  /L  Percentage of households;  /f 1965.
April, 1980



ANNEX I
- 23-                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data ore dreen . Itm --r*   geneall  judged the sent -tht-1rial-  Ad reliable, it should alo he noted that they may no  he itte-
naelt.nl .to .parals   euue       h   lcko  sneodardieed definitIons and ...ntepte uceo by dfreecutIe  in co                       tleotin   the dat.-   The data are,noe
The referent  gr        "I r  11.1 theen  c         I-,n go f u  the  at ete. tou..try and  2l Ac...tunty g-pn otth somehat higs- averge  itocom   than the vo-ty group
of tteehet cntrylevp  fo   feitalSrpu  01IEpo-teet" grourOher  'Middle lecots  North Africa and Niddln East' ia chosen hevauae of stronge
oocuc-ruloualefftnlnle)    It the reerence  grop daea the  vrae  are porulstto ughted aetAmettt assesP lot sv   tndictcr- an  hboe  ooIy abe.a
les   afoftncureeIn a grAp hsdt  fur that indioaeer.  Since the coverge of cooristen   the  nin r  depends en the avelbilltyof
dataen  iant  nfrm    ationmotbr   erlsd in  ea  lo -erges of one indlototr rt  -rthr-   Thre  -ve-gra are oly useful in vnparing the value
ofuendouo       tii..e ..n.gtheco...irya.dca.ferenne  g-oy..
LIn1I AAEAItosn   nq.k.)                                                                         "ratccv   tno     - ropuu-tu- bundro  ty nutee  ci prgctlcug  ytP-
Total - Tota  nurface area  -oprialng  land ares an  a ndW d    Iaes                              tcv    .ufc              un -d ica   n1,uol on uvn   _i          1 evl
ugrnuluvl 1      Itia-   nfuecu  oa  ae   sd te-pn-aily yr perasnently                         ..n..laenun cr hureu-A  Pnro ...  .ny.let out dluldd  h          b  Iohe     P prctiin
for .oa..a.      uen.    nrke  ndknheigrdn   r  eu   fa1lve; 1971 data,                       male and fnl  graduat  vu.s-a  pt.,cIIc urr, adaslttnoe.
GNF PER CAP ITA (US$)   GN, P.b -Pit. ..ii   k         ~        ~         uban, aod cura1l dIvIded by the it r-pnci   nosie  of hcaPito1 hbnds
colate d by name " c    -tei-v   -httd ai World  Iun .A.a  11976-ZN  bola   iNI                  avlei   npbIcadpiaeg6ta   e   pcaledhsis   o 
1950, and 197  data.                                                                            hahilitatioc---rg     Nespilralbare aenslishmen'ts.Pera-enti   -ffid
thNERY  CONSITOPTIONR PER CAPITA - A .nuI.... ceuPtion  nO coeeea  enrg             na             h  at least oee phsicia.    teta .itialnnt  pro ladie    procpltycuth Ie
11 112.y 1.11        care ar   not included.              b Rualhe phlsis,   vnrner by inId  _rait I a    en
enI'd   oit  ptolua  nfualge  edhyroItu,er,ndgethralelc-                                         cetesnn  prmnetl -d             fd  y    pyitseILe  p     edte  asfssi
itrliep) iv Alogas  f  ol equIvaletper vspita; 1960, 1970, and 107B                              es.edle   e.   uhofri-ain    cosdfo    n   rnd
caIIt. nc lod      JPe prlviyal  gol    av' npecIieed hosylpis ,t.endbruri
POPULATION AN11 VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                  hutpital  lca  or1 yore. I AveylnaItund modiva  an           t_d   b taeooeir.
TuaKoualn    id-Year laIlnis ..    At of July 0; 1960, 1970, and 1978               Adelnelon  ter HOc..Ital ted - Tvtal nuber of  dnn-no. to op discharges
doto.                                                                                         TIro  hospitels dIvded ho the rushe  ofhdt.
Irhu  ycnlaiveiperentof ota     R -tit  of -rhn i totlppuaio
dlferet   efiotion   of urban  reama  affect comParability of data                        HOUtING
ast bcutries; 1960, 1970,..ad 1978 date.                                                  A-er..e tie. of Hi.usehold lerorn ...s.r house-holS-tnl ur               _..ad -el-
POuetinPrfciosA h...sbhldl.. cnist  of a g-ep of indiidal eI  scare ilieig quater
PopultionIt psr 200 - Crrst  pouatc   proectonsar  ha.ed or i980                      ad their   ansel.A hoader or iodgor  eo  may oct he itcluded in
ttlpo,putilc  hy age end Iseadtheir mortaity snd fetility rtes..                        vhe hensehoid for ansiatica  pross
Prjcto   pssmtere. for  -otaloy rtes. coprise of three ie1veIsasu                     Averag naabr of persons - oeroa           -tsl. other, and rurel1   Averge  um
cogIl   enpovoancY ai birth inceau.nguith cutysper vs A income                              her of peron  per. tO-   l - . ull urban  end rutal occpld cneso
laol  ed (male life  eupeciec   nibillole   et %77l.5 yer.   lbspTi  pas1,iig,rsetvl.lelngocuen-msurtnutren
nterit forletulity tealohaethe   ln l              s easu- io  delie t.                   unoupepcs
ferilIy accoding cc loco.c level   d Pas  faeily planeieg performnor                      Access to  Elrctiriciy Irebtoet ci d-elliogel - tonal. urban, anIrra
fec broot_ Iste f_sgo   one. oftes.            in"   oalaiosof.rtlt                       Conenioa  delingsnt.,h electrici~ty  ia living quarters aspercen.tage
aol' Petlcvteds fur pejcte7uroesMftofi pa,adrrl dbwe1lilegsrePstivey
htationtrnpopulatIon - Ine  tationar Y Popolatin  there Is no groth since
the birthrov  is equal totedah  rate,and ois-  the age structur   re-                   EDUCATION
saonooaat.   Ie inb aeiene  oly Ifte   fertility rtsdeln iO                         ajsdtrosnteia
vhoreplacaenoleorvf solint reprndviion  rae,eheneab  genetaior               peisrnschooltotsl.n,lhacddemte-lroa11ra..saistdftial
In theyear 200, an  the rteofdecline of ftil ityrtetrPlace-                          Fear  bus odjoeted fco differen        .tlegths  0tyiaary edoatni-;for
Yer rt crr    olation is reached - Tbs year  he-  sttionar y p.p.ltti-t                 snesm   pui'ls ir  bab           rsoeteofiulsho   ge.
sire hasb.. een . rahed.                                                                    S-cedary suhool  -       .n1al atI. and femae    Caputedasahon-;aecen.dsty
Pep  n.  a.     Mi-reP.pPUlaion pe  atlsr  kill...ter 1100 h-ct-es  of                    prvde.a.rl,v tio..ul, or teah-e  riin                     ntu I Pon    frpopik
total area.                                                          usoall~~~~~~~~~~~~y of 12 tv 17 y nb.f  gm   . pond enc   - couse  sop, ...  1
Pera.h_        giutra  ad-Computed as shov  for agriculturl land                                 sclldld.               yer        g;cre.gnral
only.                                                                                       VoaInlnoiet(eroto   eodrl-Voairlisiuin
Poonatiu Agenirorur  IrecantI -Childre  (i-lA  pears. I, nothing-ag   IlS                inldfehial   ruttl  rr othery pr Vgas  wicf                    oerteiepl
64 yean),an   vstnrd(b5   eaoesdonen1)a       - . peceeges oFmid-yeorro.Pu-             detyrseetmt    fscnayintfto
lotion; 1960, 1970, acd 1979 date.                                                            d'urtlyrse raib I       nrd maryt . and a      inodrntutal net   eoldi
P.olaio Grceoh Rat  (pervent) - tota   - Aneua.l groeth ratee of total sid-                        primaryan  secondarEylevel 1dMmde  by'euaher  of tr...here  in the
pr-  population   for 1950-Al, 1960-70, and 1970-79.corspdn lel.
Peonatio Ouet tae (ercnt)- oban- Anua  grethrats v  uran  OPe            Adult lite-ay rain Ioet-n-   - Littrate adults  (able to read and otiel
Crudo mirth tote (per h-sand) - hsAi..   Live birthe pe  th..ea.d of aid-pent..                                             b.    d1                 9d  5y..  .           b
pspulatAon; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data                                                     CNiSSPTIOS
CruD~e pah Rae   Ee  oh-oadl - Aenaldeth  pe  huado id-yea                                     Peane   ae(e  husn2ouaie       asngrcr   op  a   on
P.l lprtas.;  usull   fie-ea  avePassendig i  196, 170,ndt977
raiyPioio-cetoa   nou  tboada       ooa   ubadfacetrs                                    boddnstognra   ulc  e   hosn o0oulto;  nlde    ni
PslPIaniuUesloreti    aridnmn   P                                -cutg    PIf mare          outisablse               oig
surer of child-bea Ingae(1-0yer)nb   s  br.onorol deices to                            v ecivers- (..  ihuedpeiain   -r   eevesfrbsa,ti
tiodrtu   .ood  Prnucio  ripetCeia  1697-ll --..d.    laeno  ptvs97               nna        heosocdt19rculni_nlore housnd ppul.) Allatio) -                 fo-ahei-raaeI-toc
-1 ... I fily pl-.ig pdon-nf "daily  enoa                                           h.e.onoppe'   efle   aapmidis  pub-
prfuiio-   falfoho-dce.    rdcineoua   edan   eded                                           lcto    eoe    tiasr-tyic. recoding  gre                ie         scoiee
in on vlnrdev   ear hasa.   Unaodit le  ouner  rinarygooda lg. augacaseft  hodaly  iftt  i.t  fpprars or  -ea            y Ico      bma  cree.bl.i        .b
loated  oftugal nbvh er edble   d consi  nutietsh (e.g. coffee ent              iea  nte An oc   perCeli  reIot-a                            no the-d--e of
ucti til aerag         rdcrpINeneig-p s  1961-s, 190,,anh1978data
Par ania 50pmof clores   oniertof eesrsaneu)- Cmpued  ins        nd  obie uute
eODANNtRgo eniosNt ofne  tceppie  aaialeivconrype..p.a.A.cPOC
yrr dy.  Aailabe supliesvempise  issetc prdsctin, iportslees Inte Lobo Pore Itbcasool - conoicily ectom  prauts  incudIn
enporte. co  changes itstock,  met  upplies encude enisa   ited   seds        ared5fore  god unte_plod .hur: Pu"uin   hcsalesPtuens  ec
qoeto ii len tusediIntfood procenaneg   en  lsesi  daninio.d fsole                      sfniiud   nvat One       -on trdn reon  cmpralo  1960,d           1971iadit
ievocrnsoImt i                                                                                                 d pPAPbased  n physologicl need  forItrmoi ati   1i7ddone
ulty  vA halob  onsIerin  e-diroiment- spetiucey  bo.dy neighie og-.                Fmal (r dcnly  i- Pitl  l.bnr torv  aopretgev   oa    trfre
hoceho.Id  level; 19td1-hp,197.  an   97   aa,fsInispevnhg    ftonal6165labor fn19rdce; 1960, 1970dti.   th                                             t   ad 1978 dat.I
~nt celia ucolo ciorotei brasspee dul - Prcote cntemi  f per  spito          ndustr Inerowi) -  abor frts inmiringpc-daPuc mon  sabilctu-I-
cot  uppl  nf  ood  er ly.  Rt supip  f lod indefied a  aboe.  i~               en  eletricty,  tinterd  as a  proeroa..oftota  labrOfoce;RCEl
qure vrefc  lbl.cun           _Pa etblishn   hy -ft   provbidefa sinisus14.
allunanye of60gamEf ntlprtinpa-ayadliyrmso  aimlaii97vad198daa
Iue    ruao  c   hc   10k aro    iul-s1islpoei.Te                   stid.beIcptiFuo . Oats .r....o d      oa,mae  o   eml-atoiain
arsaeine   lovcry7   rado   oa   rnl   n   3saeo                                       ativit P ate  are coopluyd an total,dvale  andu esal  late  furea
qu..nivl pro-nt as ataeraefr  h    nrddroo PPhO.,    dI. .iId-b in. th    hr                  eceee    f  no    eeedfmlepplto    falagns Iepoiey
11,ibiIldE,  .  b..d- py.ilogb.1by.d                                1960,  97-Iad 197  d ta.  These           .. cr0  .L  . paricpaio   raise 1 ef7ecain
Acid fod  Sorvey;.. 1961-A.197  end 1977 data..,199 db.
riedtotaimi  soM    uss  ngaspe-o;6916,170edi7  0cm.                               cocuIc ldoe19n7vRin    -IRati   of.ppu-eion 00e  15an   5  n  oe
Chill Isuen 1-4) fCcroalafv tate loertfussndl -.AePsultdeaths.1er.bhoufawd.I
tod he -   nu  ishoc- Lfotie.t.i iig,                       L       _ _     i
cqsen dat   fled  fIun lifet bles; 196 ,17  andA 1977dat. fnCovfoISTOn1960n
Lute loectu 6v so     rt  (veers    -tIi Aneag  o dbe  ofd pear  of. lat  rsmaitidd            197percent, rices  20pretdors   0pren,adpoet0   e
of hrth;1960  197 ien  i97   dote.                    Pof heueeth_c.-.d
loforrfotvlino ate (ar thu    Stna    -  nuldab    fifat   ne   ieya               IiTSTAitIi on-Ollylt
of ag  pen  hcured  lIe blrbe.                                                 Etimaed Apclote,ivaty.Inome Lvel 701 nrverla) -urbonand rral 
drowseto Sof gacecIorrcot nO  npolafon) -totl ura,ai ua                               bslte- poert  inoe  eelI  to  uieErs  blc  hchanE                           ia
eater such an      y    96-5 1h970fns prt 1co  7 dneos.bsrig.  and960sereein97n0ltimt                         d 1e97i5o daetv Irvos  LIta (ILO' pectcanons) - cr00a    rel   -
,.vnndeie  ac hing  ithinreaeoabieacces cf  hen  ocar.forsalovsa                pe6ora6io-oe ofebrEnntry   leha   lonl itRerivd  fro  therura
reantohracrgsoul t nl.            httehoesf    reseno f-         t         outecldteve  nto,. adjsta- f.cc  ihroa   flvn    nutrOes
doLT  in    ori  sedednp-otnot   oto  tedyi  fthn   he                                         CteaedPrloo   (ec                bsolute Povra Inom   Level  enccby -urban
oura  - ioshv o  peole  tuta,Auban, ovA   -  yuro) crne   ho  foctis    j                            ih.    ...     - t4    .b
o[ lame  p-crevgsofnrnnpcao    uuaic Ph....crntti  due-                                                                        EconomAb-l-Lvic an  hcil  nt  Olie d,
ponel ear teciode the cvllcilct acd dIsposal, c.b.c   ..lIfouAbrraisop-o,y                                   iccoumic   oayie t_  Pco7ociom   epoIment
of huvn  lvoeco alb,dasta1-se     by  aie-tvoesyrevtd nbce caoHpi,18
vimptottuv   aiilr  cetil tlone           .     ,ig        d..I  .



ANNEX I
-24 -                                                Page 4 of 4
COUINTRY DATA - SOLOION ISLANDS
AREA                  POPULATION                                                    DENSITY (1976)
28,896 sq I.,         197,000 (February 1976)                                       6.8 per sq km
Rate of Growth:  3.42 (from  1970 to 1976)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1970)                                                   HEALTH (1978)
Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                      41                                Population per physician                      7,100
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                      11                                Population per hospital bed                     325
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)   78 /a
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1976)                                                        ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY  (1976)
X of population - urban                          932                                % of population - urhan                         802
- rural                       24% /b                                                - rural
EDUCATION
Adult literacy rate (1970)                       91
Primary school enrollment ratio (1973)   702
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977:  1US$385ic
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                               GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                Central Government
SI$ Mln.         X GrOp
US$ Mln.          2                                                         1977      1977  1975-77
GNP at market prices                76.4          100.0       Current receipts                                12.0      17.3      16.3
Gross domestic investment           10.6           13.9      Current expenditure                              13.7      19.7      18.9
Gross domestic saving                6.5            8.5      Current deficit                                   1.7       2.4       2.5
Exports of goods, NFS               34.4           45.0      Development expenditure                           7.6      11.0     10.0
Imports of goods, NFS               38.5           50.4      External assistance and other (set)               9.3      13.4     13.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                  1974      1975       1976      1977       1978
(Millions 1S$ outstanding st end period)
Money and qu,asi-money                    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       33.1
BSnk credit to public and
private sectors /d                       5.4       5.3        5.1       9.6        5.9
(Percentages or index numbers)
Consumer price indes (1970-100)          136.8     150.6      157.1     170.3      181.2
Annual percentage changes Sn:
Consumer price index                      18.9      10.1        4.3       8.4        6.4
Sank credit to public and
private sectors  ud n.a.                          -1.9      -3.8        9.8        5.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                      1975   1976 1(97.  7     978 I               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
US$ Ml  n.      X
Exports of goods, NFS                    17.3   26.1    34.4    37.4
Imports of goods, NFS                    36.3   34.9   38.5   46.5                    Fish                             7.3         30.0
Timber                          6.7         27.6
Balance on goods and NFS               -19.0   -8.8   -4.1   -9.1                     Copra                            6.5         26.7
Palm products                    1.7         7.0
Investment income                       -0.4   -0.6   -0.7   -0.9                     Cocoa beans                      0.3          1.2
Current transfers /f                      3.7     2.8     3.7     4.3                 Other domestic exports           1.0          4.1
Re-exports                       0.8         3.4
Balance on current account             -15.7   -6.6   -1.1    -5.7
Total                      24.3        100.0
Net direct tnvestment                     7.9    4.9      5.3     4.6
Official grants g/                        6.1     9.1     7.2   14.1                  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1978
Short-term capital /h                     0.7     0.6     1.0    12.4
Overall balance                          -1.0     8.0   12.3    25.5
TUS$ Mln.
Increase in official reserves              -       -       -    25.1
Official reserves at end of year           -       -      3.0    28.1 /i              Public debt                             1.2
RATE OF EXCHANGE
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 /i    .
1974     1975     1976     1977      1978
Public debt                             0.04
SI$1.00 = US$              1.4408  1.3102   1.2252  1.1090  1.1447
US$1.00 = SI$              0.6941   0.7632  0.8162  0.9017  0.8736
la  First births only.
/b  Access to potable water supply.
/c  Calculated by the same conversion technique as the World Bank Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this
table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/d  Mostly private.
Preliminary.
X   UK recurrent grants and private transfers.
/g  Capital grants for the Government's development budget.
/h  Includes some long-term loans for 1977 and 1978.
/i  With the Australian dollar circulating as the domestic currency, the country held no official external reserves
prior to 1977.
/I Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
February 25, 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOLOMON ISLANDS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
None.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
A I None.
C. Projects in Execution
None.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SOLOMON ISLANDS
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SOLOMON ISLANDS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: one year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Government
and ADB
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA: October 1979
(d) Date of departure of ADB Appraisal Mission: April 9,1980
(e) Date of completion of IDA negotiations: February 18, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 31, 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) IDA, ADB and DBSI will enter into a Letter of Credit Administration
which will include the procedures by which the proposed credit will
be administered by ADB (para.32).
(b) The proceeds of the proposed credit will be relent by Solomon
Islands to DBSI according to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satis-
factory to IDA (para. 33).



- 27 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) DBSI will review its interest rates periodically and will
consult with IDA prior to effecting any change in its interest
rates (para. 34).
(d) The Borrower shall increase DBSI's paid-in capital by
SI $0.5 million (US$0.55 million) each year during the period
1981-83 (para. 35).
(e) DBSI shall keep IDA informed on an annual basis of the progress
of its staff training programs (para. 41).
(f)  A free limit of US$30,000 shall be established (para. 50).
(g) DBSI will maintain a long-term debt/equity ratio not exceeding
3:1 (para. 55).






IBRD 14259
r   509.                 ,           S11*                                  199                                  15i-                           14?                IeO*                 10E? 3? i    IE     16L(9               I097            IBDO 1979
PAPUAa   150f01K  PACWC CCIA9I
NiEW GUINEA                     -                                     h                                                                                            15 C i6 c  oce
.c   *h, *onon o n                                                                                                        ,,, P  P UA   NEW   GUINEA                     '       0      I
BC) JGA I N V I L L E,                                                                                                                                                                                              nD~0BL 
ft*             -~~~                                                                                                                                     TOIOACHISEU$04'
BOJGAINfV[IA1  is,rLXLEL 0)\    00                                                                                                                                                                                                   05001  j fiNfoLItP
40.                                   1w
i                                                                                                               IopnL.  .RUS06U9SL7tl91 =                                                                                               'rO g SLANL  In, ISLANDS
0 IL099                                        C SEUL                               i                                   M       a                                                                     A ( ;         091           019090L1  'V       90, t. j_ A   <1A   ,,,   fk
L,,..-              ORTLAN()                                     00                                                                                                         CO l   SEA            -_                                                            J 9A   o1 R
Centrol   ions                                                                                                                                                                                                        o v  0(0S 0|  9090 ANDS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.                                                         ' '                                                            A7stAIlEStR EIA   011001000      00    [n4B* 0 3  00  '0 -0 50>,IZ 
WeStern,                                                  5 A N rA   C R u Z                ; 11                      t  t entro  i land;           - --               MLES      09         000                                                                |
C tr.I islands                                                                                                                                       T.jin
.7Z=                               12*                                                                               '       j          0          f  X                                                  if                  4   =(: 920  L I.
9t V,( LG UAA;AN                                                                                                                                * *                                   SO MN ISLANDS
12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I
lOnbono                                                                                          0  Molt, townsp
On.                                                                                                                                                                                                               Roollo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ln6k
NEW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



