"OCUMNT       CREDIT NUMBER 1115 SOL
Development Credit Agreement
(Development Bank of Solomon Islands Project)
between
SOLOMON ISLANDS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1115 SOL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1981,
between SOLOMON ISLANDS ( reinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in financing a portion of the Project described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement by extending the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the Asian Development Bank
(hereinafter called the ADB) for a loan (hereinafter called the
ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special Funds resources in an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to assist in
financing a portion of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower and the ADB;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Development
Bank of Solomon Islands with the Borrower's assistance, and as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Development Bank of Solomon Islands the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(D) the Borrower, ADB, and the Association intend to enter
into an agreement (hereinafter called the Administration Letter)
making arrangements for the ADB to process applications for
withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided
severally by ADB and the Association and regulating certain other
matters of common interest in connection with such financing;
and
(E) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Development Bank of Solomon Islands;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions):
.(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"14. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-3-
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Act" means the Development Bank of Solomon Islands
Act 1977 (No. 19 of 1977) of the Borrower, as amended from time to
time;
(b) "DBSI" means the Development Bank of Solomon Islands,
a body corporate, established pursuant to the Act;
(c) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(d) "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies
as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by DBSI in an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to DBSI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
DBSI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an Investment:
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(h) "Policy Statement" means the Statement of General
Business Policies adopted by the Board of Directors of DBSI in
January 1978, as amended from time to time;
(i) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and DBSI, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time;
(j) "SI$" means tht currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made by DBSI to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to DBSI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-4-
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of   the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by DBSI or by any one or
more subsidiaries of DBSI or by DBSI and one or more of its
subsidiaries; and
(m) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and DBSI pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,300,000) for use by DBSI.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, DBSI, on behalf of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, may withdraw from the
Credit Account the equivalent of amounts paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by DBSI on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan or
Investment to meet:
(i) the reasonable foreign-currency cost of imported
goods (except goods described in paragraph (c) of
this Section) and services required for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(ii) seventy-five per cent (75%) of the invoiced price
paid for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph
(c) (i) of this Section;
(iii) seventy-five per cent (75%) of the invoiced price
paid for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph
(c) (ii) of this Section; and
(iv) sixty per cent (60%) of the costs of construction
works included in such Investment Projects and
carried out by contractors who are citizens of the
Borrower;


﻿-5-
provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of an Investment Project unless (A)
the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project shall
have been approved by the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall
be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement which, together with any other
amount or amounts previously financed for the same Investment
Project under the Development Credit Agreement or under the ADB
Loan Agreement, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $30,000.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account
of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i)
goods previously imported into its territory through normal
trade channels and from countries which are members of the Bank
(or from Switzerland); (ii) goods produced in the territory of
the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw
materials so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises to
carry out Investment Projects; and (iii) construction works as
described in subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement or
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, or of an Investment, more than one hundred
twenty days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the application and information required under Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, or (iii) expenditures made in
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan more than one hundred twenty days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the
request and information required by Section 2.02 (c) of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. DBSI is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall determine. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and DBSI of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1991, and ending October 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit;
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is
granted is the financing by DBSI of economic development in the
territory of the Borrower through loans for productive purposes
to enterprises in such territory, and through other productive
investments in such enterprises, all for specific development
projects and in accordance with the Project Agreement, the Act
and the Policy Statement.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
or the equivalent thereof to DBSI under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DBSI
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the proceeds of the Credit shall be used only for making a
Sub-loan to an Investment Enterprise in respect of which such part
of the Credit was withdrawn from the Credit Account and shall be
applied exclusively to the foreign currency cost of goods and
services required to carry out the Investment Project in respect
of which such part of the Credit was withdrawn.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause DBSI to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial and business practices.
(b) In the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall
perform all the obligations set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such reports and information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning: (i) the
Credit, and the expenditures of the proceeds and maintenance of
the services thereof; (ii) the Project; (iii) the Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the Sub-loan; (iv) the
administration, operations and financial condition of DBSI; (v)
financial and economic conditions in the territory of the Borrower
and the international balance of payments position of the Bor-
rower; and (vi) any other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect any Investment Enterprise, any Invest-
ment Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿-8-
Credit, and any relevant records and documents maintained by
DBSI.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall promptly take all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, which shall be necessary on its part to enable DBSI to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement, and shall not
take or permit any action to be taken which would interfere with
the performance of such obligations.
Section 3.07. The Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
delegate to the ADB under an Administration Letter, for the
duration of such period as may be set forth in the Administration
Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities under
Section 2.02, Article III and Article IV of this Agreement and the
Borrower shall comply with the provisions of the said Section and
Articles as if the ADB is substituted for the Association therein.
The obligation of the Borrower to comply with Section 2.02 and
Articles III and IV shall continue in force and effect notwith-
standing any termination or suspension of such delegated functions
and responsibilities to the ADB under the Administration Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or DBSI shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan made to
DBSI and having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with the terms thereof, have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof by reason of any default
specified in the agreement providing for such loan or in any
security representing such loan;
(c) the Act or any provision thereof shall have been
repealed, suspended or amended in any manner which in the reason-
able opinion of the Association will or may adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project or the ability of DBSI to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿- 9 -
(d) subject to paragraph (e) below:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADB Loan or any part thereof shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the ADB Loan; or
(ii) the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(e) paragraph (d) of this Section shall not apply if:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof any event specified in paragraphs (a),
(b), (c) or (d) (ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur*
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following ev,-nt is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the ADB Loan shall have been declared
effective.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, DBSI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of DBSI in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 30, 1981 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of Section 4.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 15
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Honiara
Solomon Islands
Cable address:                  Telex:
FINANCE                           HO 66337
Honiara
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the State of
Hawaii, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the procedures set forth in the following paragraphs of
this Schedule shall apply in the procurement of goods and services
to be financed by Sub-loans or Investments. The term "services" in
this Schedule does not include consultant services.
2.   DBSI shall require Investment Enterprises to demonstrate
that the procurement procedures adopted by them are appropriate in
the circumstances. DBSI shall also ensure that the goods and
services shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery,
efficiency and reliability of goods, their suitability for the
Investment Project and the availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering then.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Execution of the Project;
Financial and Other Matters
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to DBSI on, inter alia,
the following terms and conditions:
(a) interest at the rate of five per cent (5%) per annum;
(b) equal semi-annual repayments of principal over a period
of fifteen (15) years, including a grace period of six (6) years;
and
(c) assumption by the Borrower of the foreign exchange risk
with respect to the repayment of the Credit.
Policy Statement
2.   The Borrower shall not permit any substantial amendment to
be made to the Policy Statement without prior agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Management
3.   The Borrower shall, prior to making any appointment to
the position of General Manager of DBSI, consult the Association
regarding the qualifications, experience and tenure of office of
the person proposed for appointment.
4.   (a) In furtherance of its localization policy, the Borrower
has appointed a new General Manager of DBSI to succeed the present
Ceneral Manager and in order to facilitate the assumption of
office by the new General Manager, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) the new General Manager shall take over as full-time General
Manager of DBSI prior to the effective date of this Agreement;
(ii) the present General Manager shall move into an advisory role
until the expiry of his present term in June 1981 or the expiry of
his proposed extended term in November 1981.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that if the present General
Manager relinquishes his appointment as adviser before November


﻿- 14-
1981, the Borrower shall appoint a new qualified and experienced
development bank specialist, satisfactory to the Association, in
place of the previous adviser.
Professional Staff
5.   The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that
DBSI continues to be staffed by suitably qualified professionals
with adequate experience and technical expertise. Where suitably
qualified nationals are not available for any position, the Bor-
rower shall cause DBSI to employ suitably qualified expatriate
staff. The Borrower shall also ensure that DBSI's salary scales
and benefits are maintained at competitive and attractive levels.
Capital Increase
6.   The Borrower shall make a contribution of Solomon Islands
dollars 0.5 million to the equity of DBSI before the end of
1981 and every year until 1984. Thereafter, the Borrower shall
continue to make reasonable annual contributions to maintain a
steady increase in DBSI's paid-in capital.
Operational Deficits
7.   The Borrower shall promptly take all appropriate measures
to assist the DBSI in the event that DBSI experiences any large
and continuing operational deficits.
8.   The Borrower shall consult the Association in the event
that it proposes to take any further action towards the estab-
lishment of a second development financing institution in the
Solomon Islands.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the <         day of          ,
198 ..
FOR SECRETARY


