Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11480
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1110-UG)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling (USh)
US$ to USh
Appraisal year (1980):                        7.5
Year averages:
1982                                   150.0
1984                                  500.0
1985                                 1,300.0
1986                                 1,400.0
1987 (May)                           1,400.0
Currency Unit = SDR
US$ to SDR
Appraisal year:                               1.25
Year:
1984                                     1.04
1985                                     1.01
1986                                     1.10
1987                                     1.26
Glossary of Abbreviations
AfDB      African Development Bank
EEC       European Economic Community
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Islamic Development Bank
MLMWD  Ministry of Lands, Minerals and Water Development
MLMWR  Ministry of Lands, Minerals and Water Resources (Pre-1986)
MWMD    Ministry of Water and Mineral Development (Post-1986)
NWSC      National Water and Sewerage Corporation
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations International Childrens Emergency Fund
WDD       Water Development Department
WITA      Water Industry Training Association
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Uganda
Water Supply Engineering Proiect (Credit 1110-UG)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Uganda - Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit 1110-UG)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Office with part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project was carried out in a period of civil war and severe
economic decline which particularly hampered the use of foreign technical
assistance as well as local recruitment.   The objectives were to prepare
feasibility and design studies for the rehabilitation of severely damaged water
supply facilities in a number of urban centers and for improved organization and
management of the sector agencies and their cost recovery practices. They were
achieved: the follow up investment phase was implemented and the sector agency's
financial and institutional performance was enhanced.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the sustainability
as likely.
While delayed, both Part I (prepared by the Bank) and Part II of the
completion report are of good quality. The project will be audited, as part of
a cluster, on completion of the ongoing investment project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 111I-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ..............................................                                                       i
Evaluation Summary                ...................                  ...................                    H
Part 1:            PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    1....... 
A. Project Identity  .......................................                                                  1
B.  Background   .........................................                                                    1
C. Project Objectives and Description  ...........................                                            2
D. Project Design and Organization   ............................                                             2
E.  Project Implementation   ..................................                                               3
F.  Project Results  .......................................                                                  4
G. Project Sustainability   ...................................                                               5
H. Bank Group Performance  .................................                                                  5
1.  Borrower Performance   ..................................                                                 6
J.  Project Relationship  ....................................                                                6
K. Consulting Services   ....................................                                                 6
PART 11.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                    8
Annexes to Part 11  .....................................                                               22
PART 111.          STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ....................                                            38
Table 1: Related Bank Loan or Credit  ...........................                                            38
Table 2: Project Timetable   ..................................                                              39
Table 3: Schedule of Accumulated Disbursements  ....................                                         40
Table 4: Project Cost ......................................                                                 41
Table 5: Financing Plan  ....................................                                                42
Table 6: Mission Data by Stages of Project  ........................                                         43
Table 7: Status of Loan Covenants   .............................                                            44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization






UGANI)A
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 11 10-UG)
PROJECT COMPLE-ON REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water Supply
Engineering Project in Uganda for which Credit 1110-UG in the amount of SDR 7.1 million
was approved on March 10, 1981. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1987, by which
time it was fully disbursed. The project was followed by a Water Supply and Sanitation
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1510-UG) which closed on March 31, 1990, and for which a PCR
was distributed on June 26, 1991.
This PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Eastern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I, and Part o) and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based, inter alia, on information contained in the Staff Appraisal
Report, Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 11 10-UG)
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objective of the project was to assist the Government in preparing follow-up
projects for the expansion of water and sanitation services in the major urban centes, in
strengthening the Water Development Department (WDD) and the National Water and
Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), in laying the ground for improvement in training of technical
staff in the sector, and in educating the general public in the hygienic use of water and
sanitation facilities. It also provided, after an amendment to the Credit Agreement, for some
urgent repairs to the water systems in two urban areas.
Implementation Experience
2.    Given the general security situation in Uganda throughout project implementation, the
project was relatively well implemented. There were delays in awarding the contract for the
tariff study due mainly to the staffing problems in the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU),
delays in giving the necessary feedback to the contractor (particularly for the manpower and
training requirement study), delays in completing the civil works component of the project
due to lack of local currency and building materials, and delays in procuring the necessary
technical assistance due to the security situation. The project was not completed by the
scheduled date and the closing date was postponed for more than two years. While the
project was being implemented, the country suffered from the effects of civil war and
economic decline, which at times seriously hampered project implementation. The Borrower
had difficulty meeting the covenant on the annual auditing of accounts and financial statements
because of lack of accounting staff and loss of information needed for the audits. As a result
this requirement was waived by the Bank for the years before 1983. The Bank group
throughout the period of project implementation showed considerable understanding of the
difficulties the Government was facing. The credit closed in December 31, 1987, by which
time it was fully disbursed.
Results
3.    Overall, and considering the unstable conditions in the country at that time, the
project was successful in meeting the objectives of carrying out pre-investment and
preparatory activities needed for a future investment program. The feasibility studies and
engineering designs were valuable inputs into the Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation



- iii -
Project (Cr. 1510-UG), which was appraised in October 1983 and closed on March 31,
1990, (Project Completion Report of June 26, 1991) and the Second Water Supply Project
(Cr. 2124-UG), which was appraised in November 1989 and became effective in January
1991. The tariff study under Cr. 11 10-UG provided the basis for decisions on the
appropriate level of tariffs. The manpower and training study formed the basis for the
planning of training programs in the water supply and sanitation sector for the decade. The
project was less successful in meeting its objectives of institutional strengthening, primarily
because the two agencies concerned lacked the resources to adequately compensate its staff,
and the prevailing security situation made recruitmnent of foreign experts difficult. A program
for improved coverage with water supply and sanitation was formulated jointly with other
donors, in which the Bank played a major role.
Sustainability
4.    In so far as the project provided the framework for further investment in the sector,
its sustainability could be said to have depended on the outcome of the investments that
followed. In this regard, the PCR of the follow-up credit (Cr. 1510-UG) indicated that
NWSC had become a viable institution with comparatively good management. It was able to
cover its recurrent costs from revenues collected and accumulated some reserves to finance
capital expansion, that is, part of the local currency contribution to the Second Water Supply
Project. Concerning WDD, the PCR for Cr. 1510-UG indicated that the objective of Cr.
11 O-UG to strengthen WDD for the creation of the favorable conditions in the four towns for
the takeover by NWSC at the end of the project was achieved. Unreliable power supply was
the main reason why the water systems did not operate efficiently. This problem was being
addressed through a Bank project in the power sector.
Lessoni.Learned: One major lesson learned from the implementation of the project is that
in an especially adverse environment, as experienced under this project, where the country
was severely affected by civil war and economic decline, project objectives, especially
regarding institutional development, should be kept to a minimum. That the project
succeeded nevertheless in meeting most of its objectives is to the credit of all those involved
in its execution.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1110-UG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:       Water Supply Engineering Project
Credit Number:      1 100-UG
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
Country:            Uganda
Sector:             Infrastructure
Subsector:          Water Supply and Sanitation
B.    Background
1.    The possibility of lending for the expansion of water supply and sewerage systems in
Kampala and Jinja was initially examined in 1970. In 1971 the Government of Uganda, with
the support of UNDPIWHO, prepared Master Plans for water supply and sewerage for
Greater Kampala and Jinja. Just as the project was ready for appraisal, the Bank Group's
operations in Uganda came to a halt because of civil unrest. The water supply and sanitation
installations that had existed before 1971 had deteriorated or been destroyed in the war to the
point where hardly any service was provided. During that period, there was no capacity
expansion to keep pace with the increase in urban population, accelerated by war and
economic decline. As a result, 60% of the population in towns with water schemes had no
access to piped water. With the change of Government in 1979, high priority was given to
improvements in the sector, and in July of that year the Bank Group was invited to reactivate
the project and expand it by including other priority urban areas. In reviewing the status of
the earlier work, it was concluded, that the updating of available information and additional
work would be necessary to cover the addition of new urban areas to the project. Further
work was required for the following: (i) updating feasibility studies; (ii) new studies for towns
added to the project; (iii) detailed engineering design for all seven major towns (Kampala,
Jinja, Entebbe, Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara, and Tororo); (iv) analysis of manpower
requirements for the operation of the new facilities; and (v) preparation of a training program.
It was decided that these concerns could be better dealt with through an Engineering Credit.
2.    Sector Development Objectives: With the change of Government in 1979, and given
the overwhelming evidence of the deterioration of the existing water supply and sewerage
system and the population pressure in the urban areas of Uganda, the Government's objectives
were to rehabilitate and expand clean water supply and waste water treatment and to build
strong service delivery institutions by strengthening the National Water and Sewerage
Corporation (NWSC), so that it could eventually take over the management and provision of
water and sewerage services to all urban areas. In order to achieve these objectives, the
Government gave high priority to obtaining external assistance for investments in the sector.



The Water Supply Engineering Project fitted well into the overall objectives of the
Government.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
3.            Project Objectives: The objectives of the project were to assist the
Government in preparing projects for the rehabilitation and expansion of water and sanitation
services in major urban centers, in strengthening the Water Development Department (WDD)
and NWSC, in laying the ground for improvements in training of technical staff in the sector,
and in educating the general public in the hygienic use of water and sanitation facilities.
4.            Project Description: The project components consisted of: (a) feasibility and
detailed engineering studies, including preparation of tender documents, for rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply facilities, upgrading of sewerage systems and improvement and
expansion of sanitation facilities in Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe, Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara and
Tororo; (b) provision of about six staff houses and offices, twelve vehicles and 15,000 water
meters, meter testing and repair facilities and materials for NWSC's immediate needs; (c) a
water supply and sewerage tariff study; (d) a study of manpower and training requirements in
the sector, a feasibility study for a training facility, and preparation of a training program for
technical staff; and (e) provision for the following technical assistance: (i) one engineer to
assist MLMWD in coordinating the project activities (Project Coordination Unit - PCU), (ii)
two engineers to assist NWSC in supervising engineering consultant work, and (iii) one
specialist to assist the Government in organizing education of the general public in hygiene
related to water use and sanitation. The project was amended on August 10, 1984, to include
the financing of urgent repairs to the Tororo and Mbale water systems.
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
5.    The Water Supply Engineering Project was designed primarily to carry out needed
preparatory activities for any major investments in the Uganda water supply sector.   The
overall concept of funding a project to carry out pre-investment and detailed engineering
studies and preparation activities was a sound one. The project concept and design were
appropriate and timely, given the situation in Uganda at that time. Attempts were made to
ensure that the proposed studies and designs would cover all the technical, financial,
economic, ecological, and sociological aspects needed to undertake an investment project for
water supply and sanitation in the selected towns. The studies also assessed the impact on the
poverty group and established a base for improving the planning and operating capacity in
WDD and NWSC. The technical assistance provided strengthened the weak engineering
capacity of NWSC, and the provision of water meters and testing and repair facilities
contributed to the improvement of water conservation and collection. The decision to provide
staff housing and vehicles was a sound one, given the acute shortage of housing and transport
in Uganda at the time. The project successfully laid the ground work for the follow-up
projects: the Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1510-UG) and the
Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 2124-UG)
6.     The then Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources (MLMWR) was
responsible through WDD for the national water resources, including the development,
operation and maintenance of all water supply and sewerage systems. In 1972 NWSC, an
autonomous parastatal organization, was set up to develop and operate water supply and
sewerage systems in towns where arel-niate revenues from sales of services could be



- 3 -
generated. At time of appraisal, NWSC operated the systems in Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe.
The expectation was that once the systems in Masaka, Mbarara, Mbale, and Tororo were
operational, NWSC would take over these towns also. PCU was set up in MLMWR to be
responsible for the implementation of the project. In retrospect, given the weak technical and
accounting capacity of WDD and NWSC, the project should have included the provision of
expatriate accountants and the training of local candidates.
E.    Project Implementation
7.           Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up: The Credit was approved ir March
17, 1981, signed May 7,1981, and became effective on October 5, 1981. The delays were
due to a late response from Government on the designation of a signatory and the provision of
the legal opinion. In the interim, the Bank fielded two supervision missions and the
borrower awarded major contracts, that is, for engineering feasibility studies and designs,
staff houses and offices, and the manpower and training needs study.
8.           Implementation Schedule: The project was implemented during a very
difficult period in Uganda, where the country suffered from the effects of severe economic
decline and civil war. It was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1985,
but, as indicated in para. 4, the Credit Agreement was amended on August 10, 1984, to
include the rehabilitation of the water systems of Tororo and Mbale. Given the interruption
of activities due to the security situation, and the need to fully complete the project activities,
the closing date was initially extended by two years. Contract agreements for the preparation
of feasibility and detailed engineering studies for the rehabilitation and expansion of water and
sewerage facilities in the seven towns were signed with two firms on June 9, 1981. The
feasibility studies for Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara and Tororo were completed and the final
report submitted in May 1982. For Jinja, Entebbe and Kampala, the final reports were ready
in September 1982. It was decided that the preliminary design work for the seven towns
should be carried out in two phases. The preliminary design for the first phase to be
completed by October 1983, focused on rehabilitation and other urgent needs, and the final
design was completed in March 1984. These designs formed the basis of the follow-up
project. The preliminary design for the second phase was completed by mid-1984. The
preliminary design for the second phase was completed in October 1985 and was used for the
second follow-up project.
9.            Staff housing. vehicles and water meters: There was a delay of two years in
the completion of the staff housing and offices component due to lack of building materials
and the Government's inability to provide the counterpart funds when needed.
10.          Manpower and Training Reguirement Study: An international firm of
accountants was appointed in November 1981 to carry out the study. After a long delay in
obtaining comments from the Government, the report was finalized in early 1984. The Water
Industry Training Association (WITA) prepared a supplementary report on training
components, which was approved by the Bank and Government in September 1984. This
study provided a detailed breakdown of current and future manpower requirements by specific
job categories as well as a framework for recruitment and training of the required manpower
for a decade. WITA was retained as consultant for the implementation of the training
program. Tariff Study: Due to shortage of staff in PCU, work on this study did not begin
until mid-1983, although tariff increases were approved in the interim. Once the contract was



- 4 -
awarded, the study proceeded smoothly and an acceptable result was approved by the Bank
and the Government in early 1985.
11.          Technical Assistance: The Credit provided funding for one Project
Coordinating engineer, two supervisory engineers and one specialist in organization of public
health education. Following the death of the Project Coordinator and the appointment of a
successor financed by the Government a third engineer was added to the list of staff, but these
positions were not filled until two years into project implementation because of recruitment
difficulties.
12.          Education Program in Hygiene: Although, a consultant was procured on time
for this activity, the ensuing report did not provide a practical basis for preparation of an
educational program as envisaged by the project. A second consultant, hired in November
1983, prepared an acceptable report on the development of a health education component, the
recommendations of which were implemented in Cr. 1510-UG.
13.          Procurement: Procurement proceeded satisfactorily, except in one case, when
the supplier failed to supply the furniture and appliances contracted. The contract was
subsequently canceled. Furniture was procured by local shopping and the remaining ite'ns
procured by amending the contract of the three expatriates to allow the purchase of the
required appliances.
14.          Project Costs: The estimated cost of the Water Supply Engineering Project at
appraisal was US$18 million and the final cost was about US$13.8 million (Table 4). Two
reasons account for the difference. One is the high rate of devaluation of the Ugandan
Shilling during the period of implementation: while at the time of appraisal in 1980 the US
Dollar was equivalent to USh7.5, by the closing date the dollar had appreciated to USh600,
which outraced the rise in local costs. The other reason was the appreciation of the Dollar
vis a vis the SDR: while appraisal the Dollar was equivalent to SDRO.8, by 1985 the rate was
at SDR1. As a result the value of the credit, which was denominated in SDR, was reduced in
US Dollar terms from $9 million to $7.5 million.
15.          Disbursement: The Credit of SDR 7.1 million was fully disbursed. The
disbursements were slower than anticipated due to delays in project implementation and delays
in the response of the Government on items requiring its decision.
F.    Project Results
16.   Prject Objectives: Overall, the project was successful in meeting the objective of
carrying out pre-investment studies and preparatory activities. The feasibility studies and the
engineering designs were valuable inputs into the Water Supply and Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1510-UG) and the Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 2124-UG). The Tariff Study
provided the Government with a framework for decisions on the appropriate level of tariffs.
The manpower and training study also formed the basis for the planning of training programs
for the water supply and sewerage sector. The project was less successful in meeting the
objectives of institutional strengthening primarily due to inability of the Government to retain
the appointed counterpart staff to the experts and due to the security conditions. A joint
donor program for improved coverage with water supply and sanitation was formulated, in
which the Bank played a major role.



-5-
17.          Physical Objectives: The physical targets of the project were substantially
achieved as planned. The staff houses and offices were completed and the repairs to the
Tororo and Mbale Water systems carried out. The equipment included in the project was
procured.
G.    Project Sustainability
18.           In so far as the project provided the framework for further investment in the
sector, its sustainability could be said to have depended on the outcomes of the investments
that followed. The PCR for the Water Supply and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1510-UG),
dated June 26, 1991, indicated that NWSC had become a viable institution with comparatively
good management, with the support of a few expatriates. It was able to meet its recurrent
costs from revenues collected and accumulated some reserves to finance capital expansion,
that is, part of the local currency contribution to the Second Water Supply Project. Greater
efficiency had become the operational aim of NWSC, with high priority given to consumer
registration, prompt billing and disconnection for non-payment, leak detection and repair, and
meter installation. Operational and maintenance problems apparently prevented most of the
water systems from operating near peak capacity at the close of Cr. 11 10-UG. The main
reason was unreliable power supply, but this problem was being resolved through a Bank
credit to overhaul the main power generating plant. With regard to WDD, it received
assistance to create better conditions in the four towns that were to be handed over to NWSC
at the end of the project. The PCR for Cr. 1510-UG indicated however that this did not result
in a significant improvement of WDD's ability to operate the water systems in the remaining
towns and rural areas, leaving it in the same weak position in which it was at the start of the
project. While other large donor-assisted projects (mainly with UNICEF and DANIDA) were
started in the meantime to improve the rural water supply situation in most of the country, the
water supply and sanitation problems in the remaining towns (other than the seven under
NWSC), are being addressed only now in the preparation of a Small Towns Water and
Sanitation Project with assistance from IDA and the AfDB.
H.    Bank Group Performance
19.          Throughout the project implementation period, the Bank's staff provided the
Government and NWSC with valuable advice on all aspects of water supply and sanitation.
The Bank staff worked closely with the Government and participated with EEC in the
recruitment and financing of an expatriate chief accountant and with UNDP in the training of
accounts clerks. When NWSC was unable to provide the information needed for the
preparation of annual financial statements and audit reports apparently for good reason (see
para. 21), the Bank agreed to waive for the years prior to 1983 the covenant on accounting
and auditing, contained in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement, so that NWSC could start
afresh with a new set of accounts and to produce a financial statement for 1983. The Bank
showed considerable flexibility in agreeing to the amendment of the agreement to
accommodate the urgent repairs to the systems at Tororo and Mbale. In retrospect, the Bank
should have recognized earlier the difficulty the Government had, given the prevailing
insecurity situation in the country, in recruiting technical assistance personnel.
20.          Lessons Learned: The principal lessons learned, with implications to other
projects, as a result of the experience during project implementation, are:



- 6 -
(a)    Technical Assistance: Strengthening accounting and financial management
should receive more attention when considering institutional support for
parastatals. It was only at mid-term of the project that efforts were made to
obtain the necessary assistance needed to strengthen financial management -- a
key element lacking in the assisted institutions.
(b)    Technical Competency: Bank staff support was one of the key factor in the
satisfactory completion of the project. Prior to the procurement of the
experts, the Government relied heavily on technical advice of the Bank staff in
all areas of project implementation. This pattern prevailed throughout project
implementation. A major lesson learned is the need to ensure that projects of
this type include funding to improve the technical skills in the implementing
agencies.
I.     Borrower Performance
21.           On the whole, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory given the
prevailing circumstances. Although its accounting procedures were generally adequate to
provide information for planning and management, it was seriously delinquent in submitting
audit reports, mainly because of difficulties in filling the post of chief accountant with a
qualified person and the general shortage of accounting staff, as well as loss of vital
information due to the prevailing security situation. For this reason, the Bank waived in 1983
the requirement of the submission of audit reports and financial statements of NWSC for the
preceding years. A statement of affairs as of June 1983 was to be prepared but this too was
delayed past November 1984 because of the valuation of NWSC's inventories and fixed assets
was not done on time. Throughout project implementation, NWSC was constrained by lack
of technical and accounting staff. The offer by the EEC in 1984 of a technical advisor for 2
years and a maintenance/training engineer improved the situation somewhat. The inability of
both NWSC and WDD to attract and maintain competent staff was primarily due to the poor
terms of employment as a result of insufficient resources due to the inadequate level of billing
and low tariffs. Tariffs were increased by 33% in December 1981 and by 400% in May
1984, but collection of revenues was seriously in arrears, with the Government institutions the
biggest culprits. At the urging of the Bank and because of the deteriorating cash flow
situation, the Government subsequently required the Treasury to pay off the debt of the
Government agencies to NWSC.
J.     Project Relationship
22.           The Bank relationship with the Government as well as with NWSC was good.
Bank staff were prompt in providing the Government with the needed advice and dealt
sympathetically with Government's requests regarding additions to the project.
K.    Consultine Services
23.           Consultants were appointed to prepare feasibility studies and design for the
expansion of water and sanitation in Kampala, Jinja, and Entebbe. The agreement was signed
on June 1, 1981, the draft feasibility studies were available in April 1982, and the final report
was completed in June 1982. The consultant was also responsible for the detailed design. A
different firm of engineering consultants was appointed on June 9, 1981, to prepare feasibility
studies and designs for the expansion of water supply and sanitation in Masaka, Mbarara,



Mbale, and Tororo. The draft feasibility studies were completed in February 1982. The
consultant was responsible for the detailed design. Both consultants were competent, their
professional performance was good, and their supervisory staff competent. They were
retained for the next phase of the project.
24.          An international accounting firm was appointed in November 1981 to prepare
a manpower and training study. Work was expected to be completed at end of March 1982,
and discussions with Government on the final report were expected to take place in May
1982. Due to the Government's delay in commenting on an earlier draft, the final report was
only available in March 1983. The report provided a conceptual framework for training,
while the actual training program was developed by a local training consultant in September
1984. As indicated in para. 10, these reports provided the basis for future recruitment and
training of the required manpower in the sector for a decade.
25.          A social anthropologist was appointed in March 1982 to prepare a report to
assist the Government in formulating an education program for public hygiene related to water
use and sanitation, but the draft report issued in June 1982 did not provide a practical guide to
the implementation of the physical components of such a project. The health education
program was subsequently prepared by another consultant. A report entitled Development of
Health Education Component was submitted in November 1983 and was well received by both
the Ministry of Health and the Bank. A consulting firm was appointed in September 1984 to
prepare a water tariff study. The draft was submitted in Januarv 1985. Considering the
paucity of the available data, the quality of the study was satisfactory. The final revised
report was accepted in August 1985. The recommendations formed the basis for the
Government's subsequent tariff increases.



- 8 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 111 0-UG)
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
CONTENTS
1.00   Introduction
2.00   Project Preparation and Analysis
3.00   Implementation
4.00   Operating Performance
5.00   Financial Performance
6.00   Institutional Performance
7.00   Project Justification
8.00   Conclusions
9.00   Comments by the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development
ANNEXES TO PART II
1.1    Summary of Disbursements
1.2    Forecast and Actual Project Costs
1.3    Forecast and Actual Disbursement Schedule
2.1    NWSC Income Statement Forecasts
2.2    NWSC Sources of Application of Funds
2.3    NWSC Balance Sheet
3.1    WDD Income Statement Forecasts
3.2    WDD Sources of Application of Funds
3.3    WDD Balance Sheet
3.4    WDD Budget Performance
4.1    Tariff Charges
1/     Prepared by the Project Coordinating Unit, P.O. Box 7089, Kampala, in June 1989, for the
Ministry of Water and Mineral Development, Republic of Uganda.



- 9 -
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT - CREDIT 11 10-UG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Borrower:           Republic of Uganda
Beneficiaries:      NWSC and WDD of the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development
(formerly Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources).
Credit Amount:      SDR 7.1 million (Foreign Component) from World Bank (IDA) on
standard terms.
Reports:             "Report and Recommendation of The President of the International
Development Association to The Executive Directors of Uganda for a
Water Supply Engineering Project"; and
World Bank Document Report No. P-2952-UG dated February 11, 1981.
No separate appraisal report.
Credit Agreement:    Signed on May 5, 1981.
Credit effective from circa July 1981.
First Disbursement: October 1981.
Last Disbursement: September 1986.
Original Closing date: January 31, 1985.
Extended Closing date: January 31, 1987 [Ed: Actually December 31,
1987].
Re-lending of
Proceeds of Credit:   SDR 5.29 million as equity Contribution to NWSC
SDR 1.81 million as an incremental contribution to WDD's budgetary
allocation
Financing Plan:     IDA Credit   SDR    7.1 million (Foreign)
NWSC                 5.0 million (Local)
Government           2.1 million (Local)
Total                14.2
Rate of Return:     Not applicable.



- 10-
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT - CREDIT  I 10-UG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.00 Introduction
1.01 Sector Description
Uganda is a land-locked country lying astride the equator and bounded by Kenya,
Tanzania, Rwanda, Zaire, and Sudan. It has a total area of about 240,000 sq. km. of which
48,000 sq. km. are lakes or swamps. Most of Uganda lies in a plateau varying in altitude
between 900 - 1300 meters above sea level. Access to the Indian Ocean is via the ports of
Mombasa (Kenya) and Dar-es-Salaam (Tanzania).
There is an abundance of surface water sources, but limited ground water due to the
nature of the geological formations. Rainfall varies considerably within the country with an
annual average of 500 mm in the arid north-east to 1400 mm in the South.
The Ugandan population is predominantly rural (about 90%). The 1980 Census showed a
total population of 12.6 million inhabitants. The projected future total population is estimated as:
Year                       Population
1990                       16.6 million
1995                       19.1 million
2000                       22.0 million
2005                       25.5 million
2010                       29.6 million
The Ministry of Water and Mineral Development (MWMD) is responsible for Water
Resources Management/Development, Operation and Management of Water Supply/Sewerage
Systems in Uganda through its two institutions:
a.    The Water Development Department (WDD); and
b.    The National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC).
The NWSC is established by a Government Decree in 1972 to operate as a financially
self-sustaining parastatal organization responsible for water supply and sewerage systems in any
area specified by the MWMD. Presently, the NWSC is responsible for water supply and
sewerage in the towns of Kampala, Entebbe, Jinja, Mbarara, Masaka, Mbale, and Tororo. All
other Water Supply/Sewerage systems in Uganda are under the responsibility of the WDD.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for water quality monitoring of public
utilities for both water supply and sewage disposal installation.



- 11 -
The Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) is responsible for solid waste disposal,
provision of public sanitation facilities (public toilets, bathing/washing places) and community
development/participation programs.
The Ministry of the Environment (MOE) is responsible for protection of the environment
in general, and for water sources in particular, from being polluted by toxic/hazardous materials,
excessive siltation of tanks/reservoirs/water courses due to erosion on account of bad land
management practices.
1.02 Role of the Project
After two decades of political unrest, civil wars and having inherited a shattered economy,
with most of the basic infrastructure almost in ruins, the project aimed to study the needs and
provide emergency assistance in the drinking water/sanitation sectors in 7 major urban centers.
This action was considered to provide the base for future investment by the World Bank and other
Donors in follow-up projects.
With the restoration of the Water Supply to their original design capacities and with the
undertaking of studies/provision of technical assistance to further expand the requirements to meet
existing and projected future demands, it was hoped that these goals would encourage economic
activity to once again be revived in the Towns of Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe, Mbarara, Masaka,
Mbale and Tororo. It was further deemed that the project would assist, as a start, to achieve the
aims of the International Water Supply and Sanitation Decade Goal of providing clean drinking
water and good sanitation facilities by the year 1990 - now possibly by the year 2000 to all of the
Ugandan population.
1.03 National Development Plan
In April 1982, the Government launched a Recovery Program (RP) for the period
covering the financial years 1982/83 to 1983/84 to pull the country out of grave economic decline
brought about by the previous regimes. The RP was revised and updated for the same period and
called the Revised Recovery Program (RRP). In December 1984, the RRP was again revised and
extended for covering the periods 1984/85 to 1986/87. The prime objective of these programs
was to revive the productive sectors by rehabilitation and effective use of existing resources.
For the period 1982/83 to 1984/85, the budgetary allocation was US$ 736.5 million of
which US$ 35.9 million (4.8%) was budgeted for the Water and Sewerage Sector. In 1984, this
allocation to the Water/Sewerage sector was reviewed and revised to US$ 106.9 million (14.5%
of total budget).
Under the present National Resistance Movement (NRM) Government all development
activities fall under the 1987/88 - 1990/91 Rehabilitation and Development Plan (RDP). Of the
US$ 1288 million required for the RDP US$ 131.38 million (10.2%) has been allocated to the
Water/Sewerage Sector.
1.04 Institutional Changes
Since the Liberation War of 1979, there have been six changes of government. Notable
of these were a military coup in July 1985 and the National Resistance Movement (NRM) take-



- 12 -
over in January 1986. In 1986, the NRM government split the Ministry of Lands, Minerals and
Water Resources (MLMWR) into 2 Ministries namely:
a.    Ministry of Water and Mineral Development; and
b.    Ministry of Lands and Surveys.
All the responsibilities and obligations of Cr. 11 10-UG under the old Ministry passed on to the
new Ministry of Water and Mineral Development (MWMD).
1.05 Executine Agency
The executing agency responsible is the MWMD (formerly MLMWR) through a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) specifically established with adequately experienced staff. The PCU
headed by a Project Coordinator directly reported to the Permanent Secretary MWMD. The
National Water and Sewerage Corporation and the Water Development Department assisted the
PCU in seconding staff.
The PCU was initially located within the NWSC but later moved to Luzira in Kampala.
When the WDD moved from Entebbe to establish their new headquarters at Luzira, the PCU
moved to temporary Offices at Bugolobi Sewage Treatment Works, Kampala.
1.06 Extra-ordinary Occurrences
After the Liberation War of 1979 there have been six changes of Government. The
periods in between the changes were mostly marked by insecurity. Working conditions were
beset with frequent harassment at road-blocks and the only social life was within the confines of
one's own premises. It was deemed a risk to venture out after dusk. Vehicles purchased under
the Credit were hijacked at gun point, some were later found looted and others were never
recovered. The first Project Coordinator of the PCU was shot dead by unknown gunmen in
1983. Many private residences were looted/robbed by armed thieves and residents lived with the
constant threat of danger to their personal safety. The wife of an employee of Consultants on the
Project was shot and seriously wounded in an attempted hijack of her vehicle in broad daylight.
1.07 Sources of Finance
The Water Supply Engineering Project covered broadly the studies/designs to encompass
technical, financial, economic, ecological and sociological aspects needed to undertake an
investment project for water supply and sanitation in the 7 towns of Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe,
Mbarara, Masaka, Mbale and Tororo. In addition, institutional strengthening of both the NWSC
and WDD by provision of Technical Assistance, provision of equipment to improve collection of
water charges (thus improving revenue), assistance for emergency needs and assessment of the
impact of the project on the poverty group were also included. The total cost of the project was
SDR 14.2 million (US$ 18.00 million in early 1981). SDR 7.1 million of the total was in foreign
funds which was provided under the Credit 11 10-UG. The other SDR 7.1 million equivalent in
local funds was provided by the Government of the Republic of Uganda.



- 13 -
1.08 Sources of Information
(a)    "Report and Recommendation of the President of the Executive Directors on a
Proposed Credit to the Republic of Uganda fora Water Supply Engineering
Project" - World Bank Document - Report No. P-2952-UG, dated February 11,
1981;
(b)    "Recover Program, 1982 - 84" - The Republic of Uganda, Kampala 1982;
(c)    "The Revised Recovery Programs" - 1983 - 1986 - The Republic of Uganda,
Kampala - 1983, 1984;
(d)    "Rehabilitation and Development Plan, 1987/88 - 1990/91" - The Republic of
Uganda, Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, Kampala;
(e)   "Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Development Plan 1985 - 1990" - The
Republic of Uganda, Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources, Kampala,
May 1985; and
(f)    "Staff Appraisal Report - Uganda Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation
Project" - World Bank Document - Report No. 4968-UG dated June 25, 1984.
2.00 Project Preparation and Analysis
2.01 Qrigin
The World Bank Group had initially examined in 1970 the possibility of lending for
expansion of water supply and sewerage systems in Kampala and Jinja. Studies had then been
prepared by the Government with UNDP/WHO assistance with plans for appraisal in 1971.
However, due to internal political events that overtook Uganda soon thereafter, the World Bank
Group operations ground to a halt. Almost all public institutions/utilities started to decline in
standards of performance and services during this period of political turmoil/uncertainty. The
World Bank Group was invited in July 1979, soon after the Liberation War, to help reactivate the
earlier project and review/expand it by inclusion of other major Urban Centers.
2.02 Preparation and Justification
After over a decade of internal conflict, neglect, destruction/looting, poor maintenance,
mismanagement coupled with a critical lack of building materials, spare parts, equipment,
transport, accommodation, skilled/experienced manpower, foreign exchange and security, the
Ugandan infrastructure was in tatters. Records of information regarding actual and potential
capacities of public utilities/institutions were lost or destroyed. Every section of the
Government's administrative machinery was in urgent need of revival/rehabilitation. The
immediate urgent priority of the Government was the restoration of basic utilities like water
supply and sanitation facilities. Appeals were made for external donors for emergency assistance,
to which the EEC, the Governments of West Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom responded
with a total amount of Aid equivalent to US$ 25 million for the Water and Sewerage Sector. The
next priority was the rehabilitation and expansion of the Water Supply and Sanitation facilities in



- 14 -
all major Urban Centers to revive/stimulate industrial and economic growth. Thus the World
Bank (IDA) Water Supply and Engineering Credit 11 10-UG was justifiably initiated for the 7
towns of Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe, Mbarara, Masaka, Tororo, and Mbale. The town of Arua was
originally included, but was dropped subsequently on account of the prevalent security situation in
the region.
The preparation of the Project was undertaken by the MWMD (then MLMWR) through
the NWSC and WDD.
2.03 Project's Role in Long Term Plan
The role of the project in the long term was to provide the basic infrastructure essential to
revive/stimulate economic growth in Urban areas. It was envisaged that the improvement of
services to the general public by good management techniques, trained manpower availability and
financial self-sustenance would have been acquired as a result of this project and subsequent ones
to follow.
2.04 Project Description
The Water Supply engineering Project covered under the Development Credit Agreement
No. 11 10-UG, Schedule 2, was basically split into 5 parts:
Part A: Feasibility Studies and detailed engineering designs for rehabilitation and
expansion of the Water and Sanitation Sector for:
Group A towns - Kampala, Jinja, and Entebbe
Group B towns - Masaka, Mbarara, Tororo and Mbale
Part B: Water Supply and Sewerage Tariff Study.
Part C: Training
(i)   Manpower and Training Study
(ii)  Feasibility Study for Training
(iii)   Preparation of Training Program
Part D: (i)   Provision of six houses, twelve vehicles
(ii)   Acquisition of water meters together with testing and repair facilities
Part E: Technical Assistance
(i)  Strengthening of the Project Coordination Unit
(ii)  Strengthening of the Engineering Department of NWSC
(iii)   Preparation of Health Education Program
2.05 Covenants
(i)   The principal Covenant in the Development Credit Agreement was that the
Government shall transfer to the NWSC as an equity contribution, out of the
proceeds of the Credit, an amount in Uganda shillings equivalent to Six Million
Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars (US$ 6,700,000);



- 15 -
(ii)   The principal Covenant in the Project Agreement was that the NWSC shall
maintain adequate audited records of its financial operations so that they reflect its
financial condition.
3.00 Implementation
3.01 Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
In November 1979, project identification was made by a World Bank mission to Uganda,
soon after the Liberation War of the same year. The project was appraised in February 1980, and
the Credit was approved in March 1981. The Credit Agreement was signed on the 5th May 1981
and made effective circa July 1981. The first withdrawal application was made in August 1981
and payment was effected in October 1981. The original closing date of the Credit was extended
from January 31, 1985 to January 31, 1987, due to the unsettled political and security situation
prevalent at the time. [Ed: The project actually closed on December 31, 1987.1
3.02 Revisions
There were some items in the project which were not originally envisaged. These were
emergency or immediate works that had to be done to get some the water Supply systems
reactivated. Apart from these, there was not much departure from that described in Section 2.04
under Project Description.
3.03 Implementation Schedule
'Te original implementation Schedule showed completion of all project components by
January 31, 1985. Unfortunately, due to political troubles that beset Uganda and the consequent
looting/destruction that followed in its wake, the completion date was extended to January 31,
1987. However, physical completion was achieved earlier with the last disbursement payment
being effected on September 4, 1986, when all of the Foreign Component equivalent to SDR 7.1
was fully utilized.
3.04 Procuremen
There were no problems regarding procurement of Consultancy Services/Technical
Assistance with regard to Parts A, B, C, and E (Section 2.04), as these were internationally
advertised and selection was based on World Bank (IDA) guidelines. There was certainly some
apprehension among the expatriates, mainly in regard to personal safety/prevalent security
situation.
The Contractors for the procurement of goods/equipment/vehicles and
Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Works (Part D) were selected from international/Local Competitive
Bidding (ICB/LCB) procedures of the World Bank (IDA) and its affiliates.
Responses to the invitations/tenders were good with a wide international/local interest.



- 16 -
3.05 Costs and Disbursements
The total project cost equivalent to SDR 14.2 million was composed of foreign and local
components each equivalent to SDR 7.1 million. The foreign Component disbursements were as
follows:
WB Report                  Actual
(Feb. 1981)                Amount of Foreign
Estimate                   Component Disbursed
y&K                 Million SDR                in Million SDR
1981                1.25                       0.66
1982                2.45                       0.76
1983                1.90                       1.55
1984                1.10                       1.44
1985                0.40                       1.50
1986                -                          1.19
Total               7.10                       7.10 Million SDR
The Local Component equivalent to SDR 7.1 million was fully disbursed. During this
period the Ugandan Currency was subject to fluctuations of exchange rates:
Ytear                      Av. Exchange Rate
1980                       1 US$ =  7.5 Old Ushs
1981                       1 US$ = 90
1982                       1 US$ = 150
1983                       1 US$ = 250
1984                       1 US$ = 500
1985                       1 US$ =4300
1986                       1 US$ =4400
May 14, 1987               1 US$ =1400
From May 15, 1987          1 US$ = 60  New Ushs
On May 15, 1987, a new currency was launched bearing the same name as the old (One New
Shilling = 100 Old Shillings). The new banknotes were smaller in size than the old.
Details of disbursement of both foreign and local are as given in Annex 1 to Part II.
3.06  S&
The project was essentially a study to assess requirements and attend to any emergency
measures. The actual implementation of the rehabilitation/final design for expansion was to be in
a subsequent follow-up project. The general state of NWSC/WDD operations as existing at the
time, can be stated as poor.
3.07 Performance of Consultants. Contractors. Suppliers and Borrower
The performance of the Consultants (including Technical Assistance Personnel) was good
and generally a good working relationship with the Borrower prevailed.



- 17 -
The performance of expatriate contractors was generally good, but that of local
contractors poor. The causes for the latter's poor performance can be attributed to "unfair"
economic conditions prevailing in Uganda for locals to compete on an equal footing with
expatriates.
The performance of the Borrower represented by the MWMD (then MLMWR) was
hampered by the lack or delay of local cash flow, during almost the whole of the project's life.
The principal causes for this were bureaucratic delays outside the control of the MWMD (then
MLMWR) and the Ugandan economy.
To summarize, given the conditions of a weak Ugandan economy and the prevalent
unsettled political climate coupled with internal security problems, all participants in the project
can be said to have endeavored to have performed satisfactorily.
4.00 Operating Performance
4.01 Market
One of the main difficulties in assessing/forecasting market trends and demands was the
lack of sufficient reliable data. The potential demands were assessed on population projection
figures based on the 1980 census data. Consumption figures were based on estimates and demand
data from other towns in Africa. The following is an abstract from the data provided for
Consultancy Services for the Seven towns giving market demand forecasts (Source: Appendix to
Terms of Reference - 1987):
P = Population x 1000
D   Demand in Cubic meters/day x 1000
Town           Year 1985                Year 1990               Year 1995
P           D           P           D            P           D
Kampala        541          64         747          81          935         105
Jinja          135          28          172         41          219          56
Entebbe         24          8           44          10           51          11
Mbarara         34          6           44           7           56           9
Masaka          36          5           46           7           59           9
Mbale           35          7           45           9           57          10
Tororo          28           5          36           7           46           8
During the period of the project, the production capacities were poor and estimates of the
population served varied from a low figure of 20% to a high figure of 40%. The causes for this
were the weak organizational/management structure, lack of funds for
service/maintenance/purchase of spares, lack of trained staff, lack of motivation due to poor
remuneration/economic conditions/low morale, political instability resulting in theft, looting,
insecurity, lack of respect for law/order, inadequate tariff structure and rampant inflation. The



- 18 -
project intended to redress some of the above shortcomings, but to a large extent its success was
hampered by other factors outside its control.
4.02 Project's Rolf
A Manpower and Training Study, a Social Anthropology Study and the Tariff Study
helped in identifying the existing problems and proposed solutions to overcome them. The other
engineering studies identified the extent of requirements for rehabilitation and expansion.
Purchase of equipment/vehicles/small tools assisted in minimal preventative maintenance and
assess production consumption data. The project during this period can be said to have halted the
declining production capacity or restored modestly the production capacity by the emergency
provision of pumping/treatment equipment.
4.03 Other Factors
The project stressed the importance of sound financial operations/management of all water
supply and sewerage utilities, if they are to serve the public satisfactorily. Under the prevalent
economic and political climate, the achievement of these goals was to be implemented in the
follow-up project to this Credit.
4.04 Pro3ect Spin-off
The project assisted the Government in completing the necessary preparatory work for
urban water supply/sanitation investments in the seven major towns. On the results of the studies,
the follow-up project for implementation would give the opportunity and experience needed to the
local personnel. In a wider context, this would stimulate economic growth in the towns thus
creating employment opportunities.
5.00 Financial Performance
Financial Results, Rate of Return and Financial Targets analysis are not applicable to the
studies undertaken under the project. These will be the subject under a separate Credit
Agreement. However, there is an obligation on the part of NWSC and WDD to maintain
properly audited records of its financial operations so that they reflect these institutions financial
standing. Accountants acceptable to the World Bank (IDA) have already undertaken and
submitted their audited yearly reports starting circa 1982.
The tariffs as existing prior to May 1, 1984, were found inadequate and new common
tariffs for both NWSC and WDD came into effect thereafter. After consideration of the
recommendations as a result of the Tariff Study Proposals, a further revision was submitted to the
MWWD (formerly MLMWR) for cabinet approval in circa 1986, approval for implementation for
which was obtained on May 1988.
Forecasts of income statements, Balance Sheets and Sources of Application of Funds are
considered academic as the Water/Sewerage utilities performance was below expectations and
awaiting major rehabilitation. Moreover, enforcement of the tariff charges with a poor or non-
existent supply distribution to consumers was considered not practicable and premature.



- 19 -
6.00 Institutional Performanc
6.01 Management and Organization Effectiveness
The general management and organization capabilities of both the NWSC and WDD were
strengthened by inputs of expatriate Technical Assistance. A Project Coordination Unit was
formed reporting directly to the Permanent Secretary MWMD (formerly MLMWR). This Unit
was responsible for the routine work and coordinating functions as required by the project. As
the Project advanced, the unit increasingly took on responsibilities for implementation of the
project components. The NWSC was additionally strengthened by a Management Advisor,
Financial Manager and a Water Mains Superintendent from an EEC Grant Aid. However, much
remains to be done in both NWSC and WDD and expatriate Technical Assistance inputs shall
continue to be needed until the Ugandan economy shows a marked improvement.
6.02 Growth
In assessing the state of the Water Supply and Sewerage as existing and the enormous
backlog of work that is required, the Sector is a growth area with much potential for expansion.
As the economy picks up, there will be manpower requirements needed to keep pace with
development.
6.03 Staff Recruitment. Training. Development
The major constraints to the improvement and expansion of the water Supply and
Sanitation are the scarcity of local trained personnel and the economic conditions prevailing, the
consequences of which are weak institutions and inadequate support facilities hampering
development. It would take a considerable time and effort to overcome these constraints and the
project has initiated studies which recommend an action plan to overcome the manpower and
training requirements.
Uncompetitive employment conditions shall continue for some time making it difficult for
the institutions to attract, retain and motivate staff. Expatriate Technical Assistance and training
by themselves will not remove these constraints to the institutional strengthening process of the
government in the short term.
6.04 Sectoral Development
The World Bank (IDA), EEC AfDB, IDB, West German Government, UNICEF and non-
governmental Agencies are active in Urban/Rural Water Supply/Sanitation projects throughout the
country. To coordinate all these activities and develop a strategy for planned program of work a
Sector Study/action plan has been ongoing with UNDP/World Bank (ID) assistance. A report has
been finalized for the Government's consideration for follow-up.
7.00 Project Justification
The Engineering Project represented the first important step in addressing the basic needs
of water and proper sanitation facilities to about 1.5 million people in the seven towns. The
project identified the institutional strengthening needed and provided Technical Assistance inputs
of both personnel and equipment/materials. As a result of these measures, economic and



- 20 -
industrial growth can be expected to pick up in the seven towns thus creating employment
opportunities.
8.00 Conclu,sions
The Water Supply Engineering Credit 11 10-UG achieved all its objectives, thus preparing
the necessary framework for implementation in the follow-up project - Cr. 1510-UG.
Given the then existing state of the water supply/sewerage systems in the seven towns, it
is considered that the Tariff Study undertaken was premature and should have been deferred to a
later stage after the systems had been rehabilitated. Nevertheless, the study confirmed that need
for reliable records/data and improvements in the financial operations of both NWSC and WDD.
9.00 Comments on Part II of the Project Completion Report for Cr. 11 10-UG
by the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development
Section 1.01
This is a factual presentation of the country and sector description, and there are no
comments to be made on this part of the report.
Section 1.02
The Government of Uganda and the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development in
particular deeply appreciates the role of the water supply project aimed at meeting one of the
social goals of providing drinking water/sanitation in our seven major urban centers. The positive
effect that the project would have in reviving economic activities in the urban centers affected is
also noted.
Section 1.03 - 1.06
The Ministry has no material comment to make under these headings as they again contain
factual presentations over which we do not have much to add. The Ministry would wish to
record its regret, however, for the very trying working conditions which every project worker -
expatriate or local - had to bear with, particularly during the time immediately following the 1979
Liberation War when robberies, car thefts etc. affected many workers. Deep appreciation should
go to all those who withstood these difficulties with patience and understanding.
Section 2.01 - 2.05
No comments.
Section 3.0 - 3.7
Although the project was eventually completed, some concern must be expressed at the
long time it takes to start off the project from its identification. The project in question was
identified in November 1979, but the first actual disbursement payment was not until October



- 21 -
1981 - some two years later. I hope we can learn some lessons form this, and in the future try to
cut down on the time it takes from project identification to its implementation.
We note with appreciation the good performance of the consultants and expatriate
contractors who were engaged on the job. The reverse performance of the local contractors is
also note and it is hoped that favorable conditions can be created for them also to compete
effectively.
Section 4.01 - 4.04
The question of maintaining reliable data is vital in the task of providing social services
including water. Good data helps planning and forecasting and it minimizes wastes which occur
when one tries to plan for the unknown. This experience can perhaps help us to deal with the
future projects of this nature.
Section 5.00
It is essential that the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) and the Water
Development Department (WDD) derive sufficient and steady revenue from the services they
provide. Tariffs provide direct source of such revenue, and it is important that the levels of such
tariffs are realistic for the collection of revenue must be effective and this is still lacking in both
the NWSC and WDD.
We accept the view that until the supply net work is rehabilitated fully and consumer data
has been accurately compiled, enforcement of the tariff charges cannot be practical.
Section 6.01 - 6.04
We agree with the observation that the water supply and sewerage sector is a growth area
with much potential for expansion. Trained manpower will be needed to maintain the sector, and
it is in this light that we welcomed the studies which started under the project aimed at
recommending ways to overcome the manpower problem.
Section 8.00
We can agree that the report makes no exaggeration in its concluding remarks that the
Water Supply Engineering Cr. 11 10-UG achieved all its basic objectives. This should provide a
good basis for implementation of the succeeding projects. We also agree that the Tariff study
undertaken under project 11 I0-UG was premature as it should have awaited the full rehabilitation
of the system.



*  - 22 -      Annex 1. 1
k Sheet 1/3
SUMMARY OF DISBURSEM&ITS
RECIPIENT             CURRENCIES OF          SDR LUUIVALENT
AND                   PAYMkNT.                   k'oreign (F)
DESCRIPTION           (Total Payments)          Local (L)..
OF
SERVICE               _
Al. Parkman
Consultants -
Feasibility           L 890,439 - 86           1,201,qb8 - 15 (F)
Studies F'or
Mbale, Tororo,        N. sh 788,599              131,000 (L)
Masaka, and
Mbarara.
+ payments under
1510 UG
A2. Gauff
Consultants -         DM   44912038
Feasibility Studies     7'  9'   '3           2,740,3b5 - 18 (k)
='or Kampala,          L 49,188-52
Jinja and Entebbe.
+ purchase of Land-   N.sh l,15b,612             37b,000 (L)
Hovers F'or PCU +
sayments under 1510-
Bl. Stanley
Associates -          US $ 100,171-20             99,171 - 11 (F)
Tariff Study          Nsh.  49,352                 9,810 (LU
Cl. Coopers
Lybrand -              L 98,395-82               153,412 (F)
Manpower and           NS   8544t1   L
-Training Study         N.h 38,524                40,y18 (U)
C2 (a) Water Industry
Training Asso-
ciation (WITA).     b99897-74                 91g22b-99 (F)
Training
(b) Various -
For Training        K.Sh 145,982               53,2bb-83 (F)
Courses



- 23.-     Annex 1.l
Sheet 2/3
SUMMARY OF DISBURSEMENTS
RECIPIENT             CURRENCIS OF           SDR iUUIVALENT
AND                   PAYMkNT.                 F'oreign (F)
DESCRIPTION           (Total Payments)         Local  (L)
OF
SERVICE               _
DI-(a) Mukalazi Tech-
nical Services      N.Sh 10,538,921           4,915,0O0 (L)
Staff Housing w
+ Emergency
Rehabilitation
(Mbale/'lororo)
(b) Itoh - 12
vehicles k'or      Yen. 21,O78,392              85,0b7-28 (Fl)
PCU
(c) Wigglesworths      KSh. 1,29b,6 30            O19,074-74 (F)
Doshi Hard-        Kah. 4,505!,804-5          379,211-46 (L)
wares:
- Building
materials.
D2. (a) Kent Meters
- k'or Supply
of meters and        L 330,256 -bI             425,201  (F)
testing Equip-
ment
(b) Sunkyong -US   339730457(F
supply of pipes    US   323,917                330,645-76 (F)
(c) Dusor -
supply of fittings  3FL 5 L tF0 7 1 - Z83,608-75 (F
for pipes
El (a) Fletcher/
Abdeen/Board       US A 393,909-38             4
- Technical          3,183-bO                 402,514-30 (F)
Assistance,
strengthening      N.sh 57,780                  11,8b2 (1)
Of PCU/WD)D/NWSC    Ns   770ltb   L
(b) Ectol-
Electrical         L 9,99l-50                   13,091-01 (F)
equipment For
Staff Houses
(Gauff)



- 24 -           Arm   l.
Sheet 313
SUMMARY OF D1SBURSEMENTS
RECIPIENT             CURRENCIES OF          SDR  EUUIVALENT
AND                   PAYMENT.                  Foreign (F)
DESCRIPTION           (Total Payments)          Local t L)
OF
SERVICE
(c) PCU - expenses
for Wages/Allow-        Nab. 2,b25,bb4         l,bZl,b5b (L)
ances, office   ,
rental, Accommo-
dation, Compen-
sation, Transport,
-Local Consultants
and running costs
2      Mt- Scial Authro-      US A 31,029-84             28,498 - Ol(F)
pological study        Nsh   5,000                 5,556  (L)
Fl (a) Jos Hansen &
Sohne
-Emergency hehabi-     DM l,.155,225-35          432,404-76 (F)
litation Mbale/
Tororo
(b) bilwater-
Emergency               L 291,359-54             3`'1,b3a- 17 (F)
Rehabilitation
Totals        7,099,999 - 99 (F)
7,lOO,OO  (L)
r



Annex L. e.
ah.et 1/2
- 25 -
FOhECAST AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
All Costs in Mill. SDR
Item Description           Foreign                Local
Forecast     Actual      Forecast    Actual
1. (a) Feasibility                I
Studies -         2.45        2.74         2.45    1   0 38
Kampala, Jizlja    25         i&2.5               I  03
Entebbe                    12% higher               85% Less
on Fore-               on Forecast
cast
I-~~~~ -
(b) Feasibility               I                        I
Studies- 
Masaka, Mbale,    1.03        1.20.18 l                0.13
Mbarara,Tororo             16X higher              189% less
Ion Forecast            Ion Forecast
_              ~~~~I __I._
2. Provision of Water                                     I
Meters and Tools      0.79    I  0.94          0.24    1
119% higher             I
on Forecast
3. Staff Housing and                     _
Offices etc.          0.47       0057          o.63        4.62
21% higher                  733
Ion 'orecast              higher on
I                         ForecastI
4. Tariff Study         0.24      1  0.10         0.16        0.01
158S Less               194% Less
Ion Forecast            i on Forecast
5. Manpower Studies                                       I
and Training Pro-                                      I
gramme (Cooper &     0.24      1  0.30         0.24    I  0.04
Lybrand + WITA +               I   h
Cources)                      125% higher              '83% Less
Ion Forecast             on Forecast
6. Technical Assist-              I                       I
ance (RAF/MNA/RTB,                                     I
Matte Jorsted)       0.47      1  0.43         0.47    1    .01
9% Less on'           198% Less o
,I orecast              I Forecast
I         ..I
.   .    .                    l                        l            .~~~~I 



Annex 1. 2
- 26 -               Sheet 2/2
FOUKCAST  AND ACTUAL PRUJkCT COSTS
All Costs in MIII. SLA
Item Description              Foreign                  Local
Forecast       k Actual    korec l  Actual
. 7. Subtotal                5.68        6.2b          5.37       5.19
(Base Cost)                    I lle higher             1 3% Less
ion korecast              on Forecast
a~~~~~~~~~ I
8.  Contingencies          1.42      U082           1.73
. (Pzlyical + price)
1 42% Less               I lOC  higher
(Emergency Works,              Ion k'orecast            ion E'orecast
PCU Costs)                    I
Totals             7.10    1  7.10           7.10    I  7.10
rnuru.um.mmruL.ruuuin.u=u   inuminmu:-rX---umuu
lI                       I 



- 27 -
Annex 1. 3
FORECAST AND ACTUAL DISBURSEIINT SCHEDULE
(Million SDR)
FOREIGN COMPONENT ONLY
WB Report        Actual         Actual Disbursement
Year          Estimate          Disbursement   as% of WO Report
Feb. '81                              Estimate
1981            1.25                0.66               53
1982            3.70                1.42               38
1983            5.60                2.97               53
1984            6.70                 4.41              66
1985            7.10                5.91               83
1986            7.10                7.10              100



-28-                            Annex 2.1
kinancial korecasts
r                           National Water And Seweraie Corporation
Income Statement
-   -    (Old Ushs Million)
1954        1985         19S6         1957         1966         1989       1990
Water saitl  ( 000 83)                   9,033       10,504      13,111       16,923       21,.06       23,.74    25,046
Avtage Pftet (U6bh/)                       17.41        60.11          76           95          115         134         152
Operating  awteaina                       157.3        649.4     1,022.7      1,607.7      2,507.7      3,145.5   3,807.0
OperatiLg lapee"e
personnel Coat - Water                  35.6       110.3        133.6        143.0        1531.6       160.7      170.3
- Iev_ aue             19.3        59.4         72.0         77.0         61.6        66.5        91.7
- Total               55.1        169.7        205.6        220.0       233.2        24t.2       262.0
Trsapetrt        - Voter               46.5         56.2         62.4         95.9        116.7        126.1      136.0
- Set_aet              22.9        26.6         46.5         56.9         74.7        81.4        86.2
- Total               71.4         66.8        126.9        152.6        191.4       207.5       224.2
ChauLeala        - water                31.7        46.6         6469         64.4        106.9        119.3      133.1
Power            - Sater                 6.3        (0.5         52.2         84.1        117.1        129.6      142.9
- Sewarge               1.2         6.5          9.7         11.3         13.0         14.9       16.9
- TOtal                 9.5        47.0         61.9         95.4        130.1        144.5      159.6
WeLateames       - water                93.0       139.6        166.9        266.4        321.3        354.3      j91.t
- Sa _geys            26.6         45.7         73.5        112.5        159.7       179.3       200.6
- Tota l             119.6        165.3        262.4        380.9        461.0       533.8       591.A
D Fepalatle   - Water                 646.5       699.0        764.0      1,276.7      1,451.6      1,623.3   1,790.6
-   _e mtat          666.9        920.3        990.1      1,462.&    1,604.4       1,765.5    1,949.4
- Total            1,533.4      1.619.3      1,774.1      2.741.1     3,056.2      3,366.6    3.748.2
Total Op. lap.    - Water                  663.8     1,094.2      1,306.0      1,954.5    2,265.4       2,513.3   2,772.2
- la_erage           956.9    1.060.5        1,191.6      1,i20.1      1,933.4    2.127.6   2.346.6
- Total            1.820.7    2.154.7        2.497.6      3.674.6    4,198.6       4.640.9   5,119.0
Operating tleom                        (1,663.4)  (1.505.3)  (1,475.1)   (2,066.9)    (1.691.1) (1,495.4) (1,312.0)
Interest Cwrged to Operate"ns                2.6        60.0         73.5          67.0         60.5      361.8       438.2
met l2e  _               .             (1.666.2)  (1,565.3)  (1,546.6)  (2,133.9)  (1,751.6)  (1,657.2) (1.750.2)
Operating latin                         1,151          332          244          229          167          146        135
Sources  World Bank Staff Appraisal Reports
Water Supply and Sanitation kehabilitation Project
- Cr 1510 UG - Report No 4968 - UG dated
June 25, 1984.
r



- 29- _                        Anex-2.2
Financial Forecasts
National Water & Sewerage Corooration
Sources of Application of Funds
(Old Ushs Million)
Sat Imea   bale,  latg,t * (166.4)  (1.503.))  (1.475.1)  (2,066.9)    (1.691.1)  (1.495.4)   (6,233.6)(1.312.0)
|bF..2*.                                       1.m.4    1.419.)    1.774.1    2.741.I             3.05).3    3. XI,       Il579.S   3.7&6.2
*^1  , ' 1(130.0)    114.0       299.0       674.2       1,363.3     1692.4       4.)45.7  2.4)4.2
dL. ettsta.l hbqtromtI
lease "  (bage.) Ibvktag capital    (60 .1              66.9       134.1        S1I.2k       423.6       192.7       1,337.7    203.7
later     O0ed  *  Op        t.6                        60.0        73.5         61.0         46.5       361.6         442.1    436.1
bbltbpe :PvF="&                                J.j        43.j          6.           46.6         46.6      321.7         411.9    319.1
f' Bob-total                                    (71.3)      211.1       276.4       432.0         335.1       692.2      23S93.4    941.4
ietel fad  LAllb                                 (32.7)     (103.7)        22.6        22.2         610.0    1,001.2    11,72.3  1,.44.4
Capital 1aweeets (tact. 1le)
ft _P d    Vtote -   t                       0.0       603.7    1,399.0      1,469.1       1.046.5       332.1       S.053.0       0.0
-severe                   0j       j3. O3017.2               3 U.1        2)0.2         72.9      1 109.4       0.0
-  stal                   0.0       960.1    1,704.2        ,792.4      1,276.7        405.0      4,142.4       0.0
Ott  batwut"u    - voter                  1200.0       939.0        300.0         0.0        320.0        400.0      1939.0    450.0
: waml                  0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        440.0       e60.0 1e040.0 -  so.o
-   tat              1200.0       939.0        300.0         0.0        400.0    10.0           3.039.0  1.300.0
Totallapital lovestma;                   1200.0      1919.1       2004.2      1792.4      2,07.7       1,405.0      9.201.4  1.300.0
blina   Be be llaM..d                           3,232.7    2,022.6      1,963,4     1,770.2       1,468.7       402.6       7,449.1      23.4
P,ammwd by I
largeolie                                  t762t.6     641.2       1154.1      1276.3        935.7        294.9      4,304.2       0.0
hlt,w                                     t219.9       442.4       532.1        314.1        243.0        110.1      1,941.9       0.0
Glins                                     w210.0       939.0        30oo0.0       Jj            jm         j         1.2)9.0        0.0
Total  nt....  bregs                           1,232.7      2,022.6    2.004.2    1,19.4          1,276.1       40..0       7,303.1       0.0
assh logesm  (bins...)                              0           0          22.4         22.2.       l1040          3.2         56.0    (23.4)
Casb at bglam*e  of Tom                             7.1         1.1         *.1         29.7         51.9        61.9                    43.1
Case  at Sd at tea,                                 7.1         7.1        29.7         51.9         41.9         4.1                    37.7
Sourctl World Bank Staff Appraisal Reports.
Water Supply and Sanitation  ekbabilitation Project
- Cr 1510 UG  -  Repor.t No 4968 - UG dated
June 25, 1984



-      - iuLx
Finalcial . oi ecasts
National Water hrid LeweraK,e Cor poration
Balance Sneet
(Uld Ushs Milion)
1964        1935         1986         1987         1966        1989           1990
Aset.
11usd Lasta
lImEt es qleratiaa                         25,4,       UV7. 1    102s 3.212 ,.    3,.. 40 1,372.0   **  17.               l  6
- Sttt_gag.                            38 394.0   41 130.4   44 945.0   49 386.1    54 122.2  359 7SO.2               45 955.4
- kotUl                                44.571.1   49.2229*   77.177.         64,289 .9    *53H94.2  10s5.92.7        117.0',1.4
Fla.In ;opeiatioal
- Vater                                11.103.7   20,553.9   23,117.5   264476.6    30.311.5   34,442.8               39,563.3
-  sttt_    t30,310.0   32,973.1   36,763.9   41.537.2   44,179.9   32,664.6                                          59,511.8
- Total                                49,113.7   53.533.0   59,683.4   6e 014.0   P7.191.4   07.527.4                0  153.1
Hot 11ud LFeates
- Vatte                                  ,6873.4     7,505.6    9,094.9    10,427.0   11,240.5   11,509.7             l1,480.7
- Sftwurose                             6564.0    *.157.)   6*199.1            7,848.9      7.242.3    * 913.6         6,413.6
- Total                                 13,437.4   13,663.9    17,294.0    103275.9    16,502.6    18,425;            17,894.3
Ihrk is Propose,
- Votev                                      0.0        603.7       770.7        446.1        449.7        342.           258.6
- Sg-rtag                                    0.0        174.4        143.1        93.4        312.4        396.3          413.3
Total                                      0.0       960.1        915.8        541.7        93.1         741.1          682. 1
Curroet LAgottu
Ceb  dla  lBaks                                  7.1          7.1        29.7         51.9         41.9         63.1           37.7
Accnts lesolvabla                               52.4      130.5         170.6        246.5        416.3       32 .3          435.8
lov.steries                                    30.0        100.0        200.0        450.0       954.9    1.039.5          1,110.3
Tot&L                                          109.3       215.4        400.5        970.0     1.4)7.4      3,44.9        1,644.0
Total Aosato                                  135.64.9   164861.6   18,10.3   19.76U.0   20.922.3   20,814.3                  20.420,4
Iquitty am   Liabilities
Equity
Capital                                8   15,112.1   14,254.7   13,804.1   17,320.9   17,443.9   17,714.0   I7,174.0
Sataisa4  arsigla                          (1,444.2   (3.251.5   (4,600.1)  (0  934.0)  (5,43.) (10,542.6) (12,293.0)
Crmt_                                          270.0    13209.0    13,09.0         1,509.0      1,509.0      1,309.0     1,509.0
Swalsaties aUmevea                             257.5     1.146.3    2.476.0        4.034.      5.469.3    7,344.4       9,002.8
Total z4slty                               14.473.4   13.383.5    15.993.1   15.930.4   13.164.6   14.084,6    3,992.8
LAg Ters Debt                                     830.4    13422.8    2,505.1         3,717.4   4,584.5         4,541.7    4,222.0
Curaest Liabilltlee
Aeeomnt  Payable                                43.1        60.3        106.5        140.0        171.4       137.6        205.4
Total                                           43.3 1        0.3        108.5       140.0        171.4        1671.        205.4
Total Equity md Uabilities                     15.54,3 9   146,61.6   18.140.3   19,785.0   20,922.3   20,814.3   20.420.4
Dbt/lebt _d Eqity  (2)                               5           I           14           16           22          22           21
Source:  World dank Staff Appraisal heport:
j                        .          water bupply and Sanitati.on tehabilitation k"roject
- Cr 1510 Uu - neport Ilo 49b8 - UU dated
June 25, 1984.



-3-uie.x   j. 1
i'l1w.ttaclia FozecaisL&
water  Iievelo  rnent Ledalt:.:ent
Inlcome  Statemtteit
(Uld Ushs 1*;ill1on)
1984       1985        1966       1987        1986       1989       1990
Water 5sale ('000 .3)                 1,006      2,446       2,741      3,987       4,711       5,190     S,696
voter Sale 8 I'M              ~~17.41     60.11       78         95         Lis         134       252
Average Price (USh/-                     17.5       1470      211.6        378.8      542.6       695.5     865.8
Operating Revenues                         .       t70         238          788       526          9.
Operating *xpensee
Personel Cas    - voter             27.3       32.9        38.3        44.3       49.2        54.9      57*4
rsonnel Cost   S- ewerage                 1.6         2.0        2.4         2.9        3.3         3.8       4.4
- Total               28.9        34.9       40.7        47.2        52.5       58.7      61.8
trenspoft  I      - Water                 7.6        9.3        10.9        12.9       14.2        15.8      18.1
-Sewerage              1.6        2.6         3.1        3.64045                           5.
- Total                 9.4       12.1        14.0       16.5        18.2       20.3       23.2
Chemicals           Water                76.2        83.7      140.9       158.7      176.8       12.5      219.1
Power             - Water                 4.4        17.4       31.1        35.1       38.9        43.7      48.8
- seweerge             0.1         0.1         0.2        0.3         0.4        0.5        0.7
- Total                4.5        17.5       31.3        35.4        39.3       44.2       49.5
maintenance         Water                24.3       21.1        40.7        48.0       50.8        54.2      61.9
-Sewerage             2.0         3.4         5.1        5.7         6.4        7.2        8.0
_   Total             26.3        30.5       45.8        53.7        57.2       61.4       69.9
Depreelatiod      - tWater              168.4       177.1      201.2       333.5      381.0       429.1     468.8
- Sewerage             59.3       63.4        71.5      112.8       130.9      1          261.7
-Total               227.7       240        272.7       446.3        M69       575.5      630.5
Total Op. lap.    - Water               308.4      347.5       463.1       634.5      710.9       794.2     874.1
Totl O. gp.  - Sewerage             64.6        71.7       82.3       120            a       16.        179.9
-Total                373.0      419.2       545.4      757.8       855.9      956.6   1.054.0
Operating InCoM                        (355.5)    (272.2)    (331.6)    (379.0)    (313.3)    (261.1)   (188.2)
Intereet Charged to Operations            0           0          0           0          0           0
Net Incor                              (355.5)    (272.2)    (331.6)    (379.0)    (313.3)    (261.1)   (188.2)
Operating Ratio                       2.131         285        255         200         158        138        122
source:   "ox-d banK  6tall  kppraisal heportat
uter  buSppy  aicd  oaz)iratiun  k:ehbik c.. tion  Project
- Ur  .)lU  U.; - k'esot  Iju 4L.;b   -  Uu  dat .d
Junie 25, 19B4.



- 32 -                                      ' ex Z*>
tinanicial forecasts
Water Development lepartment
-                        Sources of ADlJication of  _unds
(Uld Usns hiii.iion)
,, .  ._   _ .                            ~S-rr
2954  5955       ~~~19864  ~     7          5           19S9   Is iFT,8i       5)1990
19s,        1985              19      07  19|t    1|          1|        it9          19
I tetel  owre..;
kt  I.e.,. boi.ro  lateta.:                     (355.5)    (271.2)    (332.4)    (379.0)           (313.3)   (236.5)   (1.155.2)   (ISS.25
,eoeiatloa                     8227. o                        40.5        212.7       5446.3        55.9       575.5      2.045.9      Gio.3
kb-total                                  (127.5)      (31.7)      (55.9)       47.3        159.4       314.4        459.7       442.)
Less  Opo,oISol kq.ioooeot
lou.... (Sect....) SbfhIng Capitol    (37.5)            4.1.        37.2        51.7          54.5       31.5        234.9        42.3
latorost Chog.de to  o"ratiom.                           0           0            0            0          0            0           0
,kbt ppN.Vymt                                 0           0           0           0             a          0            0           0.
lob-otal                                   (37.5)       '1.7        37.2        51.7          44.5       37.5        234.9       42.1
Iateia,l EV.ds Available                         (90.03      (73.4)       (94.2)       15.5        131.5      276.9         254.5      400.0
Capital laotamet
fropomd fojoet - water                       0         379.5       554.7       322.9         312.2      111.1      1.105.4         0
- Savrese                 0          59.0       154.2 -      375.5         51.3       21.5          23.1       e
- Total                   0         44.5           .                      459.5      J"l.       2.530.2         0
0t, boaot,etlet          - wt                      0          130.0                                            230.0        ;40. o     340.0
-     Iurgo                ...                   0            0          30.0                   210.0        50.0
- Total                   0         330.0         0            0          350.0      216.0        740.0       400.0
TotaL Capital laoaetmat                            0          M!!j        755.9       A9M.7        419.5       45*4.      3.290.2      400.0
laime. to be  Iamead                              90.0       571.9        655.0       553.1        451.?       1)1.7      3.035.4        0
fIlaed by$
ekr,ot*on                                    0           0           0           0             0          0            0          0
SquAt                                       55.5       900.0       5'S.0        495.7        459.5      144.4      3.0&1.5        0
to                                           00 0                                 0            0          0             0          0
Total nle.se  sowmeo                              5.5        900.0        545.0       595.7         459.9      244.4      3.047.5        0
Caoh Ioerea" (Dease)                              (1.5)        12.5       (10.0)       15.4        (25.2)        4.9         12.4        0
Coab at klnSasg of Tom                              1.5         0          25.1        15.1          33.1        5.5                    12.4
Cook at 1%d of Tow                                 0           25.1    10.1            33.1           5.5       22.4                    12.4
Source:  world sank btait Appraisal heporti
Water Supply and banitation n1enabilitation ProJect
- Cr 1510 UG - heport No 496b  - UU dated
JUne 25, 1984.



3  n*x  3. 3
Financisl Fozecasts
Water Developmernt Departmnent
Jialance Sheet
(Old Uskas i.ii.L.ion)
194         1986 19fl IM                           les          969          ?99
Ao"ts
Assetss
hint is Oet*tt@ma
- Vat.,t                                 6.3)3.6      7,069.3     6 )67.6      9,639.1   10.9)4.3    12,240.0            33,143.6
- Suinraga                               2,602.0      2,901.4    3.311.4       3,966.0      4,483.8    4*960.2            5,471.6
- bIal                                   9.135.4    9,990.9   11,499.2    133,03.7   15 435.9   17.200.2                 19,213.2
- Vet.,                                  4.)1s.3    6.552.3   S5140.4          ).936.5    663513.        7.697.6          9,011.2
- S.'m,aa                                1,100.6      1.661.6    2.091.6       2,392.6      2,738.8    3.131.?            3 575.3
-  etoal                                )S U7.9    6,414.1        7.2J2.0      6,329.1    9*390.6   11,029.3             t2,652.5
Nt Fixid Lasetal
- water                                  2,396.3    2,337.0       3,241.4      2,703.2   4,102.)        4*342.4          4*664.4
- Surage                                   901.4      1,039.6   _1219.6        1,573.4      1.743.0    13.26.5            1.696.)
- ToStl                                   MI291.      3,374.6   46,46.2        5,276.6      5.45.3  6_.170.9              6,560.7
Wbrk La Prop.e..
- Vati,                                       0         379.5        296.3        124.2       179.6        226.7             166.?
_ lvrage                                     0           69.0         0.0         69.2        41.6         40.1       _     35.I
- Total                                      0          446.5        366.3        213.4       227.2        266.6            201.8
Current Aa"tam
Casb sad 2ink                                    0           26.1        36.1         33.7          5.3         12.4        12.4
Aceco.ts 3scegosbla                              3.6         24.3        33.7         63.3         90.6        116.1       144.6
lm"t.ti                                        3 12.0      *0.0         60.0        330.0       134.4         172.0       192.1
*t.tl                                           37.6         92.6       133.6        207.0        250.5        300.5       349.1
btal daust.                                     3.3135.5    4.137.9    4.969.3        3.69.0       6,323.0    4,738.2       7.111.6
tequty end Liabilitie.
Capital                                     3,590.4    4,490.4        5,335.4    6.0)4.1       4,493.6    6,636.2        6,638.2
ltA1ed4 Rarsage                        a      (355.3)     (627.7)      (959.3)  (1.336.3)  (3,431.6)  (1.912.1)  (2.100.9)
Crate                                            0       a 0               0            0           0            0            0
twaalu.ti.e   uuiwe                             56.6        246.4       552.4        934.3      1,429.4       ,9355.3    2,510.0
Total Equity                                    3,293.7   4*111.1    4,926.5    3,650.3    6,271.4    6.661.0                7,046.3
Lomg *qrm kbt                                       0            0            0            0            0           0            0
Current Uabtlitiaa
Acco_st. Payehl                                 21.8         26.6        40.6         46.?         31.4         31.2         63.5
Total                                           21.0         26.6        40.6         44.7         51.6         57.2         63.3
total  Equity and Lahbilltl.                    3,313.5    4.137.9    4,949.3         5,697.0      6,323.0    6.738.2        7,111.'
ources:  world denk Stmil Apprmiwil iteljort
water su,ply axid 6:uaittion Ie-itbilit"tlcm &zoject
- Lr 1510 UU - hepurt iJo 49od - UU dated
June 25. 19d4



34                 Annex 3.4
Sheet 1/2
WDD BUD)GET   PERFH'MOCE
All Amounts in Million New Ushs
Financial           Recurrent                Capital lievelopment
WDD   I  MOF   I Actual       WDD   I  M4F   I Actual
Estimate I Approved' Amount   Estiuate   ApprovedI Amount
Amount   IAmount  Ipent   Amount    Amount   spent
1980/81     ?         1.13      0.777 ?              0.73  1 0.51
81/82     ?         3.60      3.22        7     I  6.60  1 2.43
82/83     7         3.31      1.60        7        4.38   ' 2.87
I   .     I                              I    
83/84    9.64       4.81      0.44       0.23(7)1  71        7
.   .             I                   .  . I               I
84/85   11.15      (6.59      6.38       3.7       2.83     1.59
_    I         j        ~~~~ I                1-
85/86   21.15      10.77   1 10.72     _ 7.4    I 7.41      2.47
86/87   62.71    I  0.b2     0.43        30    I 0.37       0.05
I                             I          I
87/88   64.17    1  0.98   I 0.68       124.       0.35     0.19
I        .                57FI
88/89  167.73    .167.83   186.26       801 SO L  63.26'0  129.12
|   |              j87f,~~~~7%F 9-rfq% ; 
89/90   685.2       0.17   I           1906'4l 97.75   1
Notest
1. Government Financial Year:  1 July - 30th June.
2.' Capital Development Estimates above are for Nationally
Financed proJepts only and is a good indicator' of.,-the
national effort towards development.
.      -1 



-35-
Meet 2/2
Financial                  Exchange Rate used
Year                       in the B.dget
Eatimates.
1980/81
81/82
82/83                           7
83/84                           7
. 84/85                          3,0 N. Ush
85/86                          5.5   ,
86/87           ';15.0   *
17/88                         14.0
88/89                         60.0   *
89/90                        165 O
l~~~~~~~6. 



-36-                                   jnnex 4.1
-                                  Sheet 1/ .
betlonal Water And SLwerage Corporation
Water Developeant Depertmant
tariff Structure a/
(old US;Ss)
E!nthli    Tdriaf/
Previoueb hi                            Pwleed  e1
USh          ~~Category A  d/               te    2o
USh                    USh
Public Standpipea  LI                   ,0                        0                             0
General water Rate                         72                  52 of annual rental         St f annuel rental valu /
(Water only)                                                value It
100 minilm                 S0 mdni_mm
Dometic (lnterual)                         72                     1UO                      s0
(water. ad sewerage)
Inatitutioes
- Publie (Moepitele, schoele)          54.40/1000 In          700/1000  sg               100/1000 Is
- Prtvat. (Scbools, collagea)          56.40/1000 IS          70011000 Kg                 120/bhed/lintb
leduatry                                86.40/1000 Ig          700/1000 W g                360/1000 1g
Hotels, Petrol Station                  d6.40/1000 Kg          1OO/I000 Ig                 396/1000 1g
Residential llouee witb
Swiming Peole                           U6.40/10001g            700/1000D4                 396/Kg
Presooes witb Luzury Appliances
(Cordoe  Uoee Bad Sptnimklar)           1,000                   2,000                      1.200
a/   So_ minor tariff categories have been omitted.
b/ UWSC tariffs only. Per HDD, unm_tetrd owners or occupants of property located within 1,000 tfet of a wntef
main, regardless of whether thy ware conneted or not, mare subject to a GCenrel Veter late (CU), generally
equal to 52 of thb esaw"l vola of the property, with a minimam eherge set at Uth 30 er month. An edditional
Internal SUPPly Rate (ISm) io the oe *o unt applied to conau_mrs with connected water supply. Other usere.
ouch *  roetouraato  *ad hotel., mare chorged higher cMN and 1 Ut rel egte"  rates.  Tbeo   weor no O*parete
ebarges for *werage.  WOUs  chreh        to tba fow comaumgre witb _ terd supply wmm  U6h 3/1000 gallons in met
towne.
c/   With eftect from Nay 1964.
i/   CoSpris*o  the sewen poject towns.
e/ Comprioeo urban centers otbhr than the seven project town%.
T/ Water to provided frte et charge to coneum_ e, but municipal authorities era charged Ush 700/1,000 Ig.
ji Determined by govegna_ t valuer in conjunction with valuation for property tax puxposes.
6ource:    Wb: ic! 0!.rlk  L)tff  AJIf;l L;R ;:J  teiurt
%4ter Supj..Ly tand ;)wiictiLiuXl kbei,;1b:iiC1ACiOK1 azOJtCt
-  Lr  1>1U   UI.  -  iepol t  Aio  4,u    -  uu    tl..it L 
Julle k), 1:0*.



; ~       ~~ ,        ^            I-      r               i               I ,      -,.., I               ,*  .   r       4_' T
S I A T   1- 0 It 'R   I N ST I   U Al L 1N I   S.                              hss  FiUIi*-{wpm.b,
19    No. *.               -                    1: RsasoNru. Bimas
The National %ater And Sewerage Corpors40o                             (')  Ut@r
(Water Rate) Regdulaions, 1983.                                    I tup    ...            ... She. So per meu
IN z ticis: of the powers conferred uoon the National                      2-1 ts    .                . Sb  100 pn   t.
Water and SewefaSe Corporation by sections 15 and :q (a)                        More thItn 3 Js          ... Sh. 300 per maItL
DO.=* 34   Oi the National Water and Sevcrage Corporation De:ree,
*l ''~   1972, these Regulations are herebr made with the crior                      (6) Metered  ...              ... She IS per cubic meter
approval of the Ainier this 15th day of February  I9SS.                     4r) t.im       arne
1. Thc mtes speciied in the second column of the First                       ' 'PP;            .        Shi SO pet menth
Schedule hereto dall be the mtes payable in respeet o. the                                                   Si tspp. S   100 per mmmdi
consumers specified in the first column thereof in the towns                                                            -  -. S
specified in the Seond Sebedule hereto.                                             upp.                    Sl J00 peftontL
"I Nc Is      2  The Witer Works (Gcnml II.-tea) Order. 19S4, is                   13 INSTTUTifs "-D Govelam,m
*E# aeaa. hereov revoked save a=.graph 2 in respect of the Thlirm and                  (a) Ununetred         .                  nn nuad
Furtih Sc-hedules thereof.Cflupa. t
I These Regulations shall be dt:zrced to hale comrr into                                                    ConsiUp tion  et
.iect on the Ist dar of July, 19S7. save the provisions of                                                      metcrcd rsa
parzamah 1.7 of the Schedule hereto rvhich sl come into                      (6) Mette  ...       *.-     *-. Sil. 11 per cunic Metet.
force on the date of publicition of this Instnument.
1.4 Itogr"A   Coj6o,0cL*.
4. These Re.ulations m3r be cited  as the Naion1.                            uC                 c
*Vater and Sewerage Corporation (Water Rams:  Repk-lain                       (a) Unitered                     AiAuesed  on  exumated
19o8o      _                                                                                                    Conumaption  at
merred mnu.
(6) M1etr    .....  ...     ... Ski. 33 per cbic meer.
-                               C. F. L'AOZI-KLAYA.                 j tni)m  c.aq.
Clicirmar. Board of Direr:ors.
J 'tpply        ...      ... Sim. SO per month.
SCEDtJLES.                                                 ' suppiv         *          Sue IQU per monU,           !IIt
FfSI CIIrULE.                                               , UPl .                      She MLV per Moanus
Fl.S TE SC. HMrrL.                                          7  IuFpiy                 ... She. i.0 pet rnntn.
e.aoner                Ratr.                              7'  r utppn       ...     ..   SJa.   LOW   pet   a attn.
C                    pr5soaof   pag                _,.
1.1 Pe3-- SrsD  Parts..   h-'SQp                                                                                               mt
(a) Unimetnred                  Shl. S50 per mta.                          4v. isly         ...     ... ShL 3.70 pet month.
Ib) McIerc,d                ... .S... Ill 1{) r ec nete.s.  o' rercuic                     ...m. She  50 peFr =-onib.



- 38 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 11 10-UG)
Part m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loan or Credit
Credit              Purpose         Year of Approval           Status
Credit 1510-UG      Rehabilitation of            1984         The Project closed
Water Supply and                          on March 31, 1990
Sewerage Systems
Credit 2124-UG      Expansion of                 1990         Under
Water Supply and                          Implementation
Sewerage



- 39 -
Table 2: Projeet Timetable
Planned         Revised          Actual          Reason
Appraisal      Jan. 30, 1980                    Jan. 30, 1980
Negotiation    Aug. 4, 1980    Nov. 1980        Jan. 1981
Board          March 1981                       March 10, 1981
Approval
Credit Signing   March 1981                     May 1981        Delay in
designating
signatory
Credit         Aug. 5, 1981     Nov. 5, 1981    Oct. 5, 1981    Delay in
Effectiveness                                                   receiving legal
opinion.
Closing date    Jan. 31, 1985    Jan. 31, 1987    Dec. 31, 1987    To allow more
time for
completion of
the added on
projects.



- 40 -
Table 3: Schedule of Accumulated Disbursement
US$ million
Year         Appraisal Estimate       Actual          Actual as % of
l_________________    Appraisal Estimate
Jun. 30, 1982             3.2                 1.4                 44
Jun. 30, 1983             6.2                 1.9                 31
Jun. 30, 1984             8.0                 4.1                 51
Jun.30, 1985              9.0                 5.7                 63
Dec. 31, 1987             9.0                 7.5               80 1/
1/    The Credit amount was SDR7.1 million, which was equal to US$9.0 million in
February 1981. At appraisal: 1 SDR=US$1.25; in mid-1985: ISDR=US$1.01; and in 1987,
1SDR = US$1.25. By closing date: SDR7.1 million = US$7.5 million. Hence the Credit
was fully disbursed.



Table 4: Project Cost
____.   Appraisal                          Actual
E___                                    Local    Foreign   Total *    Lal   Foreign    Total
1   Feasibility and Engineering
Studies.
(a) Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe        3.1        3.1       6.2       0.5        2.7        3.2
(b) Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara,        1.5        1.3       2.8       0.1        1.1        1.2
Tororo
2   Provision of water meters,          0.3        1.0       1.3       0.0        1.1        1.0
|____ vehicles & pipe materials
3   Staff housing, PCU offices &        0.8        0.6       1.4       5.9        0.6        6.6
transport                                                                                                            v
4   Tariff Study                        0.2        0.3       0.5       0.0        0.1        0.1
5    Manpower Study & Training          0.3        0.3       0.6       0.0        0.2        0.2
6   Technical Assistance                0.6        0.6       1.2       0.2        0.6        0.8
7   Rehabilitation Tororo/Mbale         -          -         -         0.3        0.5        0.8
Water system
Total base cost                    6.8        7.2      14.0       7.0        6.8       13.8
8   Contingencies                       2.2        1.8       4.0        -         -
ITotal Project Cost                 9.0        9.0       18.0       7.0       6.8       13.8
*   See footnote to Table 3.



- 42 -
Table 5: FInandal Plan
(US$ million)
Planned                  Actual
IDA                               9.0                      7.5 *
I Government and NWSC    _          9.0                     6.3
*     See footnote to Table 3.



- 43 -
Table 6: Missions Data by Stages of Project
Stage of              Month/       SW in       Specializat.   Perfor   Type of
Project Cycle          Year         field     Represented       m.    Problems
Rating
Through Appraisal
Identification    Dec. 1971        2.5      Economist,
Financial
Analyst, Sanit,
Eng.
Preparation/Ident.   Oct. 1979     5        Financial analyst,
Appraisal                                   Sanit. Eng.
Supervision
I                June 1981        1        Sanit. Eng.       1
II               Sep. 1981       2         Sanit. Eng.,      1
Financial Analyst
III               March 1981      2        Financial         1
Analyst, Sanit.
Eng.
IV 1/            Feb. 1983       4.5       Financial        2         Managt.
Analyst, Urban            /Fin.M.
Planner
V                May 1983        9         Financial        2         Managt.
Analyst, Sanit.           /fin.M.
Eng, Economist
VI               Sep. 1984       2         Financial        2         Managt.
Analyst, San.             /Fin.M.
Eng.
VII 2/           June. 1985       1.5      San. Engs.
I/ Jointly with identification of new project
2/ Jointly with Cr. 1510-UG



