Document of
The World Bank                   FIL  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2952-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
February 11, 1981
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its conteats may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Uganda Shilling (USh)
US$1.00          =  USh 7.5
USh 1.00         =  US$0.13
SDR 1.00         =   [US$1.25]
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EAC    -   East African Community
MLMWD  -   Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Development
NCC -  -   National Consultative Council
NWSC   -   National Water and Sewerage Corporation
UNLF   -   Uganda National Liberation Front
WDD    -   Water Development Department of MLMWD
FISCAL YEAR
Government    July 1 - June 30
NWSC          July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Republic of Uganda
BENEFICIARIES:           National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) and
Water Development Department (WDD) of the Ministry
of Lands, Mineral and Water Development (MLMWD).
AMOUNT:                  SDR 7.1 million (US$9.0 million) equivalent.
TERMS:                   Standard.
RELENDING TERMS:         US$6.7 million equivalent of the credit proceeds
would be passed on by the Government to NWSC as an
equity contribution. The remaining $2.3 million
would be allocated to WDD by the Government as
incremental to WDD's budgetary allocation.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project would assist the Government in
completing preparation work for urban water supply
investments in seven major towns. It would finance
feasibility and detailed engineering studies for the
rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and
sanitation facilities of these seven towns, a tariff
study, a manpower training study, technical assistance,
and provision of water meters, vehicles and staff
houses.
The main risk facing the project involves the Govern-
ment's ability to develop an appropriate policy
framework for the water supply sector. As the studies
to be financed under the proposed project would
provide the analysis needed to review the relevant
policy issues, it is felt that this risk would be
satisfactorily addressed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign   Total
------ US$ Million ------
Feasibility and Engineering Studies
(i)  Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe                     3.1          3.1      6.2
(ii)  Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara, Tororo               1.5         1.3       2.8
Provision of Water Meters and Tools                 0.3         1.0       1.3
Staff Housing and Offices                           0.8         0.6       1.4
Tariff study                                        0.2         0.3       0.5
Manpower Studies & Training Program                 0.3         0.3       0.6
Technical Assistance                                0.6         0.6       1.2
Total Base Cost                                  6.8          7.2      14.0
Physical Contingencies                              0.7         0.7       1.4
Price Contingencies                                 1.5         1.1       2.6
Total Project Cost                               9.0          9.0     18.0
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign   Total
------ US$ Million ------
IDA Credit                                         9.0          9.0       9.0
NWSC                                                6.3          -        6.3
Government                                          2.7          -        2.7
Total                                           18.0          9.0     18.0
(Net of Taxes and Duties)                        3.2         9.0      12.2
Estimated Disbursements:
FY1982    FY1983    FY1984   FY1985
-----------US$ Million-------------
Annual                                  3.2         3.0       1.8       1.0
Cumulative                              3.2         6.2      8.0        9.0
Rate of Return:        Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:    No separate report.



REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
water supply engineering credit to the Republic of Uganda for the equivalent
of SDR 7.1 million (US$9.0 million) on standard IDA terms. US$6.7 million
equivalent of the Credit proceeds would be passed on by the Government to the
National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) as an equity contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last economic report on Uganda was circulated in June 1969
(Report No. AE-2). From 1971 to 1979, there was a hiatus in World Bank Group
operations in Uganda. However, after the change in Government in early 1979 a
number of missions have visited the country; their findings were incorporated
in the President-s Report on the Reconstruction Credit (No. 983-UG) dated
January 29, 1980. After the change of Government in early May of 1980, two
more missions by Bank staff have visited Uganda; this report reflects their
findings. In addition, an analysis of the situation of the Ugandan economy
and its reconstruction needs was the subject of a report prepared by a team of
experts under the auspices of the Commonwealth Secretariat. 2/
Background
3.        Uganda, which in 1970 had one of the highest per capita incomes in
Eastern Africa, experienced a decline in real GDP, estimated at about 1% per
annum on average from the early 1970s through 1978. With population growth
averaging more than 3% per annum, per capita GNP fell by about 25%. The
decline was particularly severe in the modern sector, with the output of
monetary agriculture, manufacturing, mining and construction all having
fallen. Only subsistence agriculture achieved some growth, as farmers turned
away from the production of export cash crops (principally coffee, tea, cotton
and tobacco) towards essential food crops. Real investment also fell sharply
during the 1970s.
4.        The decline in the modern sector of the economy was reflected in the
changing structure of output. In the early 1970s, about 70% of GDP originated
in the monetary economy; monetary agriculture accounted for some 24%; industry
11%; and modern tertiary sector activity about one-third. By 1978, it is
estimated that the share of subsistence agriculture had increased from 27% to
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report on
the Uganda Technical Assistance Project (Report No. P-2900-UG) datd
November 11, 1980.
2/ Commonwealth Secretariat, Fund for Technical Cooperation, The Rehabilitation
of the Economy of Uganda; two volumes, London, June 1979.



- 2 -
over one third and that the non-monetary economy accounted for nearly 40% of
GDP. The output declines were largely attributable to the sudden expropriation
of all foreign-owned business and the expulsion from Uganda of non-citizens of
Asian origin.
5.        The balance of payments was seriously affected by this deterioration.
From 1970/71 to 1978, both exports and imports fell by over 55% in real terms.
Uganda had formerly exported significant quantities of tea, tobacco, sugar and
cotton, but production of these cash crops declined precipitously, leaving
coffee as the only significant export crop. Coffee's share in export receipts
increased from 53% in 1971 to over 90% in 1978, despite a decline in official
coffee exports from 175,000 tons in 1971 to 113,000 tons in 1978. The cumula-
tive balance of payments deficit for the period 1970 to 1978 amounted to over
US$130 million, of which some US$100 million accumulated as unpaid arrears.
Uganda experienced some respite from its balance of payments problems during
the coffee price boom of 1976/77 when higher coffee export earnings permitted
some relaxation of import controls: for a relatively brief period the country
was able to import vehicles, spare parts, raw materials and consumer goods,
and domestic manufacturing made a mild recovery. However, with the decline
in coffee prices in 1978 the balance of payments again showed a large deficit.
By the end of 1978, gross foreign exchange reserves covered less than 2 months
import requirements and net foreign assets were only marginally positive.
6.        In addition to declines in the real value of exports and imports,
Uganda experienced a fall in net capital inflows. In 1971 and 1972, net
official capital inflows were approximately US$30 million per year; by 1978
they had declined to US$12 million, implying a much greater decline in real
terms. At the same time, outflows of short-term capital increased. However,
a corollary of the decreasing level of external assistance flows to Uganda
after 1971 was a correspondingly low level of external public debt; recorded
external public debt outstanding rose from US$210 million at the end of 1972
to only US$270 million at the end of 1978. 1/ As a result, the ratio of
Uganda's debt service to export proceeds fell to 5% in 1978; however, if
payment arrears on external debt are added to debt service, this ratio would
have been 8%.
7.        Despite the contracting real economy, the Government's budgetary
operations were strongly expansionist. Total expenditures increased from
UShs 1.9 billion in 1970/71 to UShs 5.2 billion in 1976/77, while revenues
only increased from UShs 1.3 billion to UShs 3.4 billion, and net foreign
borrowing actually decreased. Net domestic financing, almost entirely
through the banking system, rose from a little over UShs 0.35 billion in
1970/71 to UShs 1.6 billion in 1976/77.  This heavy deficit financing by the
Government was the major cause of the nearly six-fold increase in the money
supply between 1971 and 1978.  While the improvement in coffee prices boosted
Government revenues significantly and reduced the recourse to deficit financ-
ing in 1977/78, the deficit and Government borrowing from the banking system
both rose sharply again in 1978/79.
1/   The World Bank Group accounted for 21% of total debt outstanding at
the end of 1978, the USSR for 20%, and the UK for 12%.



8.        Because of the severe shortfalls in domestic production and the
scarcity of imports, coupled with heavy Government deficit spending and
resultant monetary expansion, inflation was rampant. The official low-income
consumer price index (which may actually understate true price inflation) rose
at an average annual rate of 36% from 1970 to 1978. Despite this high infla-
tion rate, the official minimum wage was increased only 54% over these years;
civil service salaries also fell sharply in real terms.
Recent Developments
9.        Since the liberation in early 1979, there has been little improve-
ment in Uganda's economic situation. Economic development during the past
two years has suffered from the unsettled political conditions of the country.
The constructive spirit present at the meeting of the Uganda National Libera-
tion Front (UNLF) held in Moshi in March of 1979 evaporated gradually as
Governments changed; the erosion of the political consensus progressively
reduced the decision-making capability of the Government. Until recently,
maintenance of law and order and security continued to be a subject of great
concern.
10.       Production trends in 1979 were not encouraging.  Agricultural output
declined over 4%, attributable in part to adverse weather conditions. There
may have been a slight increase in subsistence agricultural production which,
however, would be an indication of the continued disruptions in the monetized
sector of the economy. Output of the manufacturing sector stagnated; capacity
utilization was estimated to have been about 20% on average. A hopeful aspect
was the arrival of the late but adequate rain in the spring which eased the
problem of food supplies, except for the northern and northeastern regions
which continued to depend on food shipments to alleviate famine conditions.
Another hopeful aspect was the slow beginning of the rehabilitation of import-
ant agricultural processing facilities which promises to bring capacity
utilization to higher levels.
11.       It was hoped that the UNLF Government would bring to a halt the
fiscal mismanagement of the Amin period. The 1979/80 budget, which was
finally presented to the National Consultative Council (NCC) on December 4,
1979, did imply a substantial improvement in fiscal performance. It promised
to hold the overall deficit to only UShs 1.4 billion, of which UShs 0.6
billion was to be financed by the sale of government stocks outside the
banking sector. The provisional outturn for 1979/80 reveals a dismal picture,
however.  Recurrent revenue fell UShs 632.0 million below the budget, while
recurrent expenditures exceeded the budgeted level by almost UShs 1.0 billion.
While development expenditures fell short of budget by UShs 640.0 million,
foreign grants and loans plus domestic development revenue experienced an even
larger shortfall of UShs 876.0 million. The result was a total deficit of
UJShs 3,186.0 million, almost 2 1/2 times the budgetary forecast, which had to
be financed entirely by borrowing from the Bank of Uganda. At a time when
output was stagnating and imports declining, this monetary expansion was
inflationary.



- 4 -
12.       Attempts to arrest price increases through administrative controls
have been largely ineffective. The black market or "magendo" economy has
continued to spread and pervades all areas of the economy. Unfortunately,
those few areas where price controls continue to be of some relevance happen
to be of crucial significance: salaries to Government and public sector
employees and prices paid to producers of Government-marketed export crops,
particularly coffee. Second jobs or illicit incomes are essential for
Government employees to survive. Coffee is being smuggled where possible
or else there is a tendency to extend the cultivation of food crops, which
can be sold at free market prices, at the expense of coffee. The unofficial
exchange rate which ranges between 10 and 15 times the official parity of
the Ugandan shilling is perhaps the best indication of the prevailing dis-
tortions. A significant devaluation of the Ugandan shilling is essential
if the economy is to be brought back on a course of progressive rehabilita-
tion. The devaluation would have to be accompanied by appropriate increases
in producer prices, effective measures to increase Government revenues,
improved control over Government spending, and appropriate adjustments in
the remuneration of public sector employees.
13.       Political considerations, mainly concern over the possible impact
of significant policy changes following the elections, kept the Government
from taking long overdue economic policy decisions. The budget for 1980/81
shows major shortcomings in its attempt to deal with the critical issues
of resource mobilization and expenditure control. Large increases are projected
in recurrent revenues (50%), primarily in sales taxes, customs and excise
revenues, and in external loans and grants (60% above the 1979/80 budget and
more than five times the 1979/80 actual). However, little in the way of
additional revenue measures is proposed; rather the revenue forecast relies
entirely on a significant revival of the economy which is not likely without
more determined management efforts by the Government. The expenditure
side of the budget implies that the increase over 1979/80 actuals will be
held to 16%. However, expenditure estimates do not make any provision for
public sector wage and salary increases which could add UShs 300 to 400
million. The level of development spending, projected to be double the
1979/80 actual figure, is obviously dependent on the availability of aid; if
aid is not forthcoming, the major part of the proposed public investment
cannot be covered. The 1980/81 budget was prepared on short notice, with
little analysis of the underlying economic situation; with little study of
revenue prospects, and without the careful review of priorities that would be
essential if the reconstruction effort is to make a real beginning in 1980/81.
As yet, little effort has been devoted to dealing with the weaknesses in tax
administration and expenditure control along the lines of the recommenda-
tions made by IMF and Bank missions.
14.       In 1979, exports increased by 19% over 1978 because both coffee
export volume and price went up in the second half of the calendar year.
Revenues were 30% higher for the year than had been forecast last September.
The cautious attitude of the Bank of Uganda in allocating foreign exchange
and the disruption of trade by the war during the first half of the year
contributed to a decline in import values of 11% from the already low 1978
level, equivalent to at least 20% in real terms (compared to 1977, the decline



- 5 -
was 30% in nominal terms and 50% in real terms). The level of 1979 imports
was nowhere near the UShs 6 billion of imports which the Commonwealth Report
indicated were essential for the first phase of the reconstruction period.
While the growth of exports and especially the tight restrictions on imports
brought about a large trade surplus, there was a very large deficit on capital
account attributable mainly to large repayments of short-term trade credits.
15.       For 1980, the Bank of Uganda produced a slightly more optimistic
forecast. Export receipts were expected to increase only marginally over 1979,
with no significant improvement in non-coffee exports such as cotton, tea,
tobacco, copper or hides and skins. However, a substantial increase in
nominal imports over the depressed levels of 1978 and 1979, about back to the
1977 level was anticipated. Gross aid disbursements in 1979 totalled only
US$50 million equivalent, consisting of US$31 million in the form of grants
and US$19 million in the form of loans. Net aid disbursements amounted to a
mere US$25 million equivalent. The Bank of Uganda projected gross capital
inflows of US$290 million for 1980, including US$50 million of private commer-
cial loans and investments. This figure would seem optimistic since preli-
minary reports show that total gross disbursements are not likely to be much
above US$100 million equivalent. However, this figure does not include
emergency food aid which will probably amount to an additional US$20 to
$25 million.
16.       Commitments of foreign assistance have fallen short of earlier
expectations and the effective transfer of external assistance has clearly
been disappointing and far short of even the most elementary requirements
associated with the reconstruction process. Uncertainty about the political
situation discouraged many donors from extending commitments and caused
some to suspend the use of credits extended earlier, although some of the
development assistance allocated to Uganda was diverted to meet the urgent
requirements for humanitarian assistance in the Karamoja region. However,
the dramatic shortfall in aid disbursements is not only a reflection of
shortfalls in commitments, but is also due to the fact that the Government
of Uganda had considerable problems absorbing available assistance effec-
tively. Weaknesses of the planning machinery and the Government administra-
tion and the shortage of well prepared projects had much to do with this.
17.       The Government last year adopted a two-phase strategy to revive the
economy. The first phase was designed to restore the production and sale
through official channels of export cash crops (coffee, cotton, tea and
tobacco) and re-establish vital Government services.  The second phase
covered a medium-term investment program directed at the rehabilitation
of key productive sectors and the country's infrastructure to the level
which prevailed in 1970.  While the Government is still struggling with the
first phase of this strategy and further progress would seem dependent on
Government decisions in the exchange rate, fiscal, and price administration
areas, the rehabilitation of critical productive facilities has made a slow
beginning. Investment programs have been developed for the restoration of
productive capacity of those sectors which provide significant foreign exchange
earnings or savings, such as coffee, tea, sugar and cotton output and proces-
sing. Technical assistance has been provided in some cases through joint



- 6 -
ventures or management contracts with experienced international firms. The
gradual restoration of output levels should in due course provide some relief
both to the balance of payments and to the budget. It is now important to
reinforce and extend these efforts into other areas of the economy, including
the rehabilitation of the country's infrastructure. This will require strengthen-
ing the Government's planning capability to take on the preparation of specific
proposals in a more systematic fashion.
18.       Notwithstanding the lack of well-prepared projects, it is obvious
that the severe shortage of foreign exchange resources is seriously affecting
the reconstruction program. Even under the most optimistic assumptions,
overall economic performance is not expected to have improved over 1979.
Imports will be far below the requirements for even the first six-month phase
of the reconstruction process identified by the Commonwealth team; they would
be more than UShs 1 billion below the minimum requirements estimated at the
time of the appraisal of the Reconstruction Credit presented to the Executive
Directors in January 1980.
19.       Nevertheless, it is hoped that the recently installed Government
will dispel the political uncertainties of the past and be able to mobilize
the larger aid flows necessary to facilitate the step-up of reconstruction
activities and investments. The first since 1962, general elections were held
on December 10, 1980 bringing into power the Uganda People's Party (UPC)
headed by former President Milton Obote. Although there were charges of
election irregularities, it now appears that the other contesting parties will
give support to the new Government. To date, the Government has concentrated
on the task of reorganization and mending political fences. President Obote
has selected the head of the former Military Commission, Mr. Paulo Muwanga, as
Vice President and Minister of Defense. He has also, for the time being,
retained the portfolios of Foreign Affairs and Finance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects
in education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda has benefitted from ten loans totalling US$244.8 million
which have been extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda through their
association in the former East African Community (EAC). IFC's only investment
in Uganda, in a textile company, was sold to the Government in 1970. Annex II
contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Uganda and the
EAC organizations as of November 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.       There had been a hiatus in Bank Group operations in Uganda from
1971 until February 1980, when a Reconstruction Credit of US$72.5 million
(including a participation of US$17.5 million by the Kingdom of the Nether-
lands) and an EEC Special Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved



- 7 -
(Credits No. 983-UG and 54-UG); the Association is also acting as Administrator
of a Can$ 3.0 million grant from the Government of Canada for the reconstruc-
tion effort. Throughout the 1970s, the Bank Group continued to disburse funds
against prior loans and credits. At present, only one of those Bank Group
assisted projects, an education project, is still under implementation. The
project, which experienced implementation problems even before the recent
war, was adversely affected by the fighting and subsequent looting (see Annex
II for details).
22.       The Reconstruction Credit, which was signed last April was declared
effective on May 1, 1980. Following the change in Government later that
month, which was accompanied by a prolonged phase of uncertainty regarding the
focus of political power, the Government agreed not to submit any withdrawal
requests until we had had an opportunity to review jointly the prospects for
the implementation of the reconstruction program. We wished to assure our-
selves that the new Government would effectively carry on the reconstruction
program and confirm the undertakings entered into by the previous Government.
Subsequently, the Government acknowledged all past undertakings to the Bank
Group and confirmed its intentions to carry out the reconstruction program
described in the June 1979 Commonwealth report. We then agreed to resume
disbursements under the Credit and under the associated EEC Special Action
Credits and the Canadian grant, initially up to a total amount of US$25
million equivalent. Commitments in respect of this understanding are proceed-
ing satisfactorily. Nevertheless, given the prevailing economic dislocation,
in particular the pervasive black market, and given the Government's past
unwillingness to introduce the necessary drastic reforms to bring the situation
under control, we agreed with the Government that the use of these funds would
be limited to specific items, which are clearly related to reconstruction
projects and whose ultimate application can thus be supervised. Progress of
the reconstruction program and the use of the Credit will be reviewed before
the end of February to determine the further use of the funds available under
the first tranche of the Credit.
23.       Following the liberation (in 1979), the Bank Group began project
identification in a number of sectors with a view to establishing an active
project pipeline. Since an initial reconnaissance mission in July, particular
efforts have been made to assess the basic constraints facing the Government
in the productive sectors and in transportation. Industrial, agricultural and
transport sector reconnaissance missions visited Uganda in the course of the
year as well as initial water supply, urban and education missions. Project
preparation is now in process in these various sectors and should be further
advanced through the Technical Assistance project (Report No. P-2990-UG)
signed on January 21, 1981 and the Water Supply Engineering project covered by
this report.
East African Community (EAC)
24.       Lending from the Bank Group to the EAC continued until 1976, when
the problems facing the Community made it impossible to continue lending
within that framework. After direct lending to Uganda stopped in 1971, Uganda
continued to benefit directly from loans made to the EAC Corporations; a



- 8 -
telecommunications project in 1973 and a line of credit to the East African
Development Bank (EADB) in 1976. Uganda is also an indirect beneficiary of a
1972 EAC harbors loan, although the proceeds of that loan are being disbursed
entirely in Kenya and Tanzania. Since October 1, 1977, all remaining balances
under EAC loans, with the exception of the EADB loan, have been disbursed on
the basis of separate national guarantees. Under the agreed allocation of undis-
bursed balances for each loan, as approved by the Executive Directors, some
"S$2.0 million was allocated to Uganda for completion of projects in that coun-
t y - US$1.9 million for railways and US$0.1 million for telecommunications.
These amounts are now fully disbursed.
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined in a report to the
Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and more recent develop-
ments were reported in a statement to the Executive Directors during their
meeting on May 6, 1980. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator ap-
pointed by the Partner States in January 1978, has visited East Africa on
numerous occasions and prepared reports on the results of his fact-finding
work on the EAC Corporations and the General Fund Services, and the methodology
adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities. In late March 1980, the
mediator presented to the three Governments (Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) for
their consideration, his proposals for the allocation of these assets and
liabilities. The mediator has also prepared a supplemental report in response
to the three Governments comments on his proposals and the next step would be
the start of negotiations among the three Governments. According to his terms
of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a
definitive settlement. Meanwhile, the mediator-s report and recommendations
on the future structure and operations of the EADB have been accepted by the
Partner States. The revised EADB Charter, along with the Treaty to enact the
new Charter, have now been ratified by the three Governments.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
26.       The Uganda plateau, lying within the upper basin of the White 2Nile,
has extensive surface water resou5ces.  Of its total area of 241,000 km
open waters cover about 48,000 km (20%). Lakes Kyoga and Kwania in the
center of the country, Lake George in the south-west and Lake Bisina in the
north-east lie within Uganda, while Lakes Edward and Mobutu Sese Seko in the
west lie on the Zaire border. Lake Victoria in the south-east borders both
Kenya and Tanzania. The largest river, the White Nile, rises in Lake Victoria,
runs through Lakes Kyoga and Mobutu Sese Seko, and descends over 500 m in a
series of falls and rapids before it crosses into Sudan. Most of Uganda's
other rivers are seasonal and usually change into vegetation-covered swamps in
the dry seasons. Springs and small rivers with clear running water are found
in hilly regions, mainly on the slopes of the western Rift Valley.
27.       In Uganda, surface water is the principal source for water supply.
Data collection on surface water resources began in Uganda in 1948 and since



- 9 -
1967, the data base has been considerably expanded and improved through an
ongoing UNDP/WHO-sponsored hydrometeorological survey of Lakes Victoria,
Kyoga and Mobutu Sese Seko. Knowledge of groundwater is scant. Currently,
about 8,000 boreholes have been drilled, mainly for rural water supply, but
available data on configuration of the groundwater table, water quality,
etc. have not been consolidated or summarized. However, it appears that the
groundwater potential is small. Witer, generally hard and salty, is normally
obtained in small yields up to 5 m /hour per well, from depths of about 100 m.
Water Supply and Sewerage Systems
28.       During the late 1960s, modern water supply facilities served almost
the total urban population and about 70% of the rural population. During
the 1970s, these facilities were not expanded or properly maintained and the
quality of service deteriorated considerably as a result of poor management,
lack of funds and shortage of qualified staff. The Government estimates that
operating water supply systems are presently serving only about 30% of both
the rural and urban population.
29.       Water for urban water systems is almost exclusively taken from
surface sources and treated. It is estimated that 70% of water supplied is
for domestic purposes and 30% for commerce and industry; 80% of domestic
consumption is supplied through individual connections and 20% through public
kiosks. In view of the recent deterioration in services, towns are now only
intermittently supplied and have a reduced coverage. Water quality is usually
substandard and often polluted, since the treatment and disinfection facilities
are no longer effective. The unserved urban population obtain their supplies
from unsatisfactory local sources, mainly springs and swamps or by collecting
rainwater. The rural population draws water from protected and unprotected
springs, boreholes, a few shallow wells, water holes, rivers, swamps and
lakes. Water from boreholes is usually hand pumped but at the moment about
5,000 of the existing 8,000 pumps are defective. Similarly, of the 4,000
protected springs, about 2,500 require substantial repair.
30.       Sewerage systems exist in 12 towns, typically serving commercial
and industrial areas; they are estimated to serve about 15% of the urban
population. Some of the unserved urban population use septic tanks and pit
latrines, but about 25% are without any acceptable excreta disposal systems.
This represents a serious health hazard in densely inhabited areas. It is
now estimated that more than 50% of the rural population use pit latrines.
Public Health
31.       There is little reliable information on the pattern of water-borne
and sanitation-associated diseases. There have been a number of cholera
epidemics in the last several years, particularly in fishing communities
which follow the fish migrations and lack any excreta disposal facilities.
The Ministry of Health's 1977 annual statistics, based on attendance in medi-
cal units, show some 265,000 cases of water-borne diseases which resulted in
200 deaths. Improved water supply and sanitation, combined with an education
in hygiene, would substantially reduce this number.



- 10 -
Institutional Arrangements for the Sector
32.       The Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Development (MLMWD) is
responsible through its Water Development Department (WDD) for the national
water resources including the development, operation and maintenance of all
water supply and sewerage systems. Exceptions to this are the water supply
and sewerage systems in Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe, which are the responsibi-
lity of the NWSC. NWSC, an autonomous parastatal reporting to MLMWD, was
established in 1972 to develop and operate water supply and sewerage systems
in any area specified by MLMWD.  The Minister of Lands, Mineral and Water
Development has direct responsibility for overseeing the activities of NWSC
which is headed by a Board of Directors representing concerned Government
ministries and includes two members from the private sector, one of whom
represents industrial interests. Day-to-day control over NWSC's activities
rests with the Managing Director and his Deputy. NWSC is organized into three
functional departments at headquarters in Kampala; Engineering, Finance and
Accounts, and Personnel and Administration. These departments are headed
respectively by the Chief Engineer, the Chief Accountant and the Corporation
Secretary, all reporting to the Managing Director through his Deputy. The two
field branches, Kampala/Entebbe and Jinja, each have three sections correspond-
ing to the departments at headquarters. The present Managing Director seems
well qualified and conscientious. However, NWSC is hampered by lack of
trained staff in all of its departments. Technical assistance and a training
program aimed at strengthening NWSC's operations would be provided under the
proposed project (para. 44). According to NWSC's Act (Decree of 1972), NWSC
would "ensure that its revenues provide adequately for the overall cost of
operation and maintenance of its services and for depreciation, amortization,
interest, and a reasonable return on investment." The Act also allows NWSC,
with the prior approval of the Minister of Lands, Mineral and Water Development
to inter alia "fix, impose and collect rates, charges and fees for water and
sewerage services rendered." While NWSC originally was given responsibility
for three towns (Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe), in the Third Five Year Plan
(1972-1976) over US$20 million was allocated for capital expenditures on
expansion and improvement of other urban water supply and sewerage systems and
NWSC was proposed to take these over. This plan was unrealistic in the
context of the failing economy. In fact, the state of repair of all water and
sewerage systems deteriorated, as noted above (para. 28), and the idea of
NWSC's expansion was not pursued. WDD is now reviewing the policy of expand-
ing NWSC to take over additional urban water and sewerage systems. As a
matter of urgency, WDD intends to improve and expand the systems in four
priority towns (Mbale, M4barara, Masaka and Tororo) which NWSC will take over
upon completion of construction. These arrangements are satisfactory to the
Association.
33.       The Ministry of Health is responsible for monitoring the water
quality of public systems and the reliability of water disposal installations,
including those of NWSC.
Sector Development and the Bank Group's Role
34.       The sector management has inherited a most difficult and demanding
set of problems. Since most records were destroyed during the liberation war,



there is a critical lack of information about actual and potential capacities
of water sources and supply facilities. In addition, there are severe
shortages of equipment, spare parts, materials and vehicles for the sector.
However, the most serious problem is the shortage of qualified staff in all
categories. WDD and NWSC are allocated 2,500 staff positions, of which about
450 should be professionals and key sub-professionals. About 70% of the
professional positions are vacant and there are no trained Ugandans available
to fill them. The shortage of qualified manpower began during 1972 when
thousands of non-ciLizens of Asian origin -- many of them professionals --
were expelled from the country. Later, many citizens and expatriates departed
and were not replaced.
35.       Thie Government is well aware of the physical condition of the facil-
ities and has made its first priority the restoration of the services and
rehabilitation of the defective equipment of the urban and rural water and
sewerage facilities; restocking workshops and laboratories, and building up
essential items of inventories. All these works, estimated to cost US$25
million, are now in progress with financial assistance from the European
Economic Community, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom.
Next in priority is the expansion of water and sewerage facilities over the
next ten years, for which preparation is underway (para. 38).
36.       Recognizing the financial and manpower constraints it is facing,
the Government has decided that the basic needs for water supply and sanitation
in urban areas 1/ should be given the highest priority and that the systems
in the seven towns facing the greatest constraints (Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe,
Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara and Tororo) should be improved and expanded. After
this, the needs of smaller towns and rural areas would be addressed. Improve-
ments of service levels would be a long-term program which can be considered
only after the basic needs of the entire population are satisfied.
37.       To alleviate the acute shortage of qualified manpower, the Govern-
ment has begun to recruit engineers and senior technical staff from abroad.
In order to augment the number of trained local staff, WDD plans to undertake
with consultants assistance, identification of sector manpower needs as a
basis for developing training facilities and providing training of technical
staff. Administrative staff would be trained in existing Government training
institutions.
38.       The Bank Group-s initial role in the sector would be to help the
Government prepare its expansion program in priority towns. Moreover, as the
chief constraint oin both preparation and implementation of such a program is
lack of manpower, the Bank Group would provide financing for technical assis-
tance, which would, among other activities, assist in the preparation of an
appropriate training program. These measures, together with review of water
and sewerage tariffs (see para. 44 below), are expected to strengthen the
major sector institutions, WDD and NWSC.
1/  The proportion of the urban population has grown from about 3% in 1959 to
7% in 1969 and 10% in 1978 - and is projected to reach over 20% in the
year 2000.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       The Bank Group had initially examined in 1970 the possibility of
lending for expansion of water supply and sewerage systems in Kampala and
Jinja. Studies 1/ had been prepared by the Government with UNDP assistance
and the project was ready for appraisal just as Bank Group operations in
Uganda came to a halt (para. 21). Since the change in Government in 1979,
high priority has been given to the sector. In July 1979, the Bank Group
was invited to help reactivate the project and expand it by including other
priority urban areas (para 36).
40.       When the status of the earlier work was reviewed, it was concluded
that available information should be updated and additional work be undertaken
to cover the inclusion of the proposed additional towns. Further work was
required, for: (i) updating feasibility studies; (ii) new studies for towns
added to the project; (iii) detailed engineering design for all seven towns
(Kampala, Jinja, Entebbe, Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara and Tororo); (iv) analysis of
manpower requirements for operation of new facilities; and (v) preparation of
a training program. It was therefore decided to propose an engineering credit
to address these needs. The comprehensive engineering studies would allow
the Government to start mobilizing financial assistance from other external
sources as it is anticipated that the construction cost of a project comprising
all seven towns would be substantially larger than the Bank Group alone would
be prepared to finance.
41.       The proposed engineering project would be the Bank Group-s first
operation in the water supply and sewerage sector in Uganda. UNDP funds for
Uganda are being committed for other studies and there are no other readily
available sources of foreign exchange within Uganda or from other agencies for
this purpose. All external sources are now concentrating their assistance on
immediate rehabilitation and famine relief.
42.       The proposed project was identified during the water supply mission
to Uganda in November 1979 and appraised in February 1980. There is no sepa-
rate appraisal report for this project. Negotiations were held in Washington
in January 1981; the Ugandan Delegation was led by Mr. Ntate, Secretary to the
Treasury, Ministry of Finance, and included representatives of MLMWD, NWSC and
the Attorney General's office. A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of
this report and Annex III contains supplementary project data. The map (IBRD
No. 15155) shows the location of towns for which studies and designs are
proposed.
1/   Master plans for water supply and sewerage for Greater Kampala and Jinja,
UNDP/WHO 1971.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The objectives of the proposed project would be to assist the
Government in preparing projects for expansion of water and sanitation
services in major urban centers, in strengthening WDD and NWSC, in laying the
ground for improVement in training of technical staff in the sector, and in
educating the general public in the hygienic use of water and sanitation
facilities. In view of the need to keep development costs to an absolute
minimum and the requirement that the expanded systems should reach as many
people of the towns as possible, particularly the poorest segment of the
community, the studies   would concentrate on the provision of water through
communal standpipes 1/ and sanitation by pit latrines. Individual water
connections would be provided only to industry, commercial entities, institu-
tions, flats and houses with internal plumbing; similarly sewerage systems
would be expanded only in areas where other low cost sanitation facilities are
not acceptable for economic, public health and environmental considerations.
44.       The proposed project would include:
(a) feasibility and detailed engineering studies, including prep-
aration of tender documents, for rehabilitation and expansion
of water supply facilities, upgrading of sewerage systems and
improvement and expansion of sanitation facilities in Kampala,
Jinja, Entebbe, Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara and Tororo;
(b) provision of about six staff houses and offices, twelve vehicles
and 15,000 water meters, meter-testing and repair facilities
and materials for NWSC's immediate needs;
(c) a water supply and sewerage tariff study;
(d) a study of manpower and training requirements in the sector,
a feasibility study for a training facility and preparation
of a training program for technical staff; and
(e) provision of the following technical assistance:
(i)  one engineer to assist MLMWD in coordinating the Project
activities (Project Coordination Unit);
(ii)  two engineers to assist NWSC in supervising engineering
consultants work; and
(iii) one specialist to assist the Government in organizing
education of the general public in hygiene in relation
to water use and sanitation.
1/   Government service standards provide that standpipes should not serve
more than 200 people and should be accessible to users within a radius
of 200 m. These standards are acceptable to the Association.



- 14 -
45.       The proposed studies and designs would cover all of the technical,
financial, economic, ecological, and sociological aspects needed to undertake
an investment project for water supply and sanitation in the selected towns.
They would also assess the impact on the poverty group, and establish the
base for improving the planning and operating capacity in WDD and NWSC. While
the proposed technical assistance would strengthen NWSC's presently weak
engineering capacity, the provision of water meters, meter-testing and repair
facilities would improve water conservation and collection. In view of the
acute shortage of housing and transport in Uganda, the proposed project
would provide houses, offices and vehicles to be used by consultants and
experts employed. These houses and vehicles would be owned by WDD and NWSC
and, after the completion of the proposed project, would be used by other
expatriates or staff.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$18.0 mil-
lion, of which US$9.0 million (50%) is in foreign exchange. All costs include
local taxes, which are estimated at US$5.8 million equivalent. Cost estimates
for engineering services are based on consultants- proposals. Estimates for
remaining components are in December 1980 prices, based on contracts awarded
in eastern african countries for supplies and technical assistance over the
last year, and reflect the cost adjusted to similar work undertaken in Uganda.
The total project cost includes physical contingencies at 10.0% of base cost
and price contingencies based on annual cost escalation of 15.0% and 9.0% for
local and foreign components respectively in 1981, and 8.5% for the two
components in 1982 and 7.5% for 1983 through 1984. Detailed project costs
are contained in the Project and Credit Summary at the beginning of this
report.
47.       The studies and detailed engineering and the technical assistance
are estimated to require 900 and 110 man-months respectively, at a man-month
cost of about US$6,000 for studies and US$7,200 for technical assistance
(including the man-month rate, international travel and subsistence).
In addition to these, the project costs would include the cost of vehicles,
construction of offices and houses, drilling and laboratory equipment, and
some other minor items required to carry out the studies.
48.       The proposed engineering credit of SDR 7.1 million (US$9.0 million)
equivalent would cover the entire foreign exchange cost of the proposed
project.  The local cost (US$9.0 million), including taxes and duties, would
be provided by the Government (US$2.7 million) and NWSC (US$6.3 million). The
credit would be on standard IDA terms (Sections 2.05 and 2.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Part of the credit proceeds (US$2.3 million)
would be allocated to WDD by the Government as incremental to WDD-s budgetary
allocation. The remaining US$6.7 million would be passed on by the Government
to NWSC for carrying out the studies and designs for those cities now under
NWSC as an equity contribution (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). These arrangements are considered appropriate because, in
the short run, NWSC would not generate revenues adequate to meet its debt
service. NWSC-s financial position would be the subject of a detailed study
during implementation of the project (para. 61 below).



- 15 -
Project Execution
49.       The proposed project is expected to be implemented between May 1981
and June 1984. MLMWD would have general responsibility for overseeing the
proposed project. It has established for this purpose, in March 1980, a
Project Coordinating Unit staffed by one local engineer. From May 1981, the
Unit would report to the Ministry's Permanent Secretary and from September
1981, the Unit would be expanded by an internationally recruited engineer for
a period of three years. MLMWD has agreed to maintain an adequately staffed
Project Coordination Unit (Section 3.01 (b) (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). NWSC would have the responsibility for carrying out the
engineering studies and designs in the towns in which it presently operates
(Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe), the tariff study, construction of staff houses,
and procurement and installation of water meters. To strengthen its capacity
to implement the project, NWSC would be strengthened by two engineers each for
three years and would maintain an adequately staffed engineering department
(Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       WDD would be responsible for the execution of that part of the
project to be carried out in the remaining four towns (Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara
and Tororo), and for the preparation of the sector training facilities and
training program. Also, with the assistance of an expert to be employed under
the project (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement), an
educational program directed at the general public in hygienic use of water
and sanitation facilities would be prepared.
51.       The studies and designs would be carried out by experienced and
qualified consulting firms and the technical assistance would be provided by
individual experts specifically recruited for the purpose. The qualifications
and experience of the consulting firms and individuals to be employed under
the project and the terms and conditions of their contracts would be satis-
factory to the Association (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The consultants'
and individual experts' reports on studies, designs, and tender documents
would be submitted in draft for review by the Government, NWSC, and the
Association. Before their finalization, the Government and NWSC would
review with the Association any comments either has on such reports and
documents (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       The terms of reference for the studies and designs and a shortlist
of consultants have been prepared by the Government and NWSC; these are
acceptable to the Association. The consultants' proposals for Kampala, Jinja
and Entebbe were received in April 1980, and for the other four towns in
July 1980. Contracts with selected consultants would be signed by May 31,
1981 (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
2.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement) and the design work is expected to be
sufficiently advanced for appraisal of a construction project early in 1982.
The bids for staff houses and offices are expected to be invited in August
1981 and for water meters, related tools and installation material to be
invited in September 1981. The tariff study consultants would be employed by
November 1, 1981 (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Consultants



- 16 -
for the preparation of (i) the manpower and training requirements study; (ii)
the feasibility study of a training facility; and (iii) the training program
for technical staff, would be employed by May 31, 1981 (Section 3.02(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Preparation of the training program and
of the educational program in hygienic use of water and sanitation is expected
to be completed in April and December 1982 respectively. A project implementa-
tion program, acceptable to the Association has been agreed upon.
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       Contracts for water meters, related tools and installation material
estimated to cost about US$1.3 million, excluding contingencies, would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. These items are not manufactured in Uganda and would
be imported. The following items would be awarded in accordance with NWSC's
procurement procedures which require at least three quotations on the basis of
written specifications for equipment and public tender invitation for civil
works: vehicles, drilling equipment, laboratory equipment and other material
(about US$0.4 million), and construction of about six houses and offices
(about US$1.4 million). These procedures are acceptable to the Association.
54.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment,
water meters, meter-testing and repair facilities, and
materials;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants services
and experts; and
(c) 35% of total costs for construction of staff houses
and offices.
All withdrawal requests would be fully documented.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
55.       NWSC and WDD follow different accounting and auditing procedures.
Although NWSC-s accounting procedures are generally adequate to provide
information needed for financial control, planning and management information
reports, its accounts have not been finalized since 1976. This inability to
complete the accounts is attributable to NSWC's difficulty in finding a person
suitable for employment as chief accountant, a position which has remained
vacant since 1974. NWSC has recently employed a suitable person to fill this
position. He is being assisted by their external auditors in updating the
accounts for 1974/75 through 1979/80 on a contract basis, a task expected to
be completed by June 30, 1981. At present the chartered accountants firm,
Coopers and Lybrand, whose staff in Uganda is adequately qualified and headed
by two partners who are Ugandan nationals serve as NWSCs auditors.



-- 17 -
56.       NWSC bills its consumers for water supply and sewerage services
once every month in Jinja and Entebbe, and once every three months in Kampala.
While billing is normally carried out promptly during the early part of each
month or quarter respectively, collections remain substantially in arrears.
NWSC's outstanding customers accounts for Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja on
December 31, 1979, for example, were UShs 39.7 million or equivalent to about
18 months billing. This accumulation of arrears is the result of NWSCGs
-hortage of staff and inability to disconnect consumers who are in default
of payment, as the Government s present policy is to keep in operation the
essential services like hotels, industries, and commercial and government
establishments. This situation, however, is expected to improve as soon as
the emergency conditions in the country are over, and a disconnection policy
in respect of delinquent consumers can be implemented.
57.       WDD, as a department of MLMWD, has all its water and sewerage systems-
costs financed from the Government budget. While water supply in rural areas
is free of charge, urban consumers in areas serviced by WDD are charged for
both water and sewerage (see para. 59). Water and sewerage revenues are
collected by WDD and paid to the Treasury. These revenues would normally
cover operation and maintenance costs of the systems. WDD accounts are
required to be kept in accordance with government accounting and budgetary
procedures, but its accounting records and control are presently weak; accounts
for past years are unavailable and are said to have been destroyed during the
recent liberation war. WDD is presently planning to improve its accounting
and reporting systems by requiring its district and provincial offices to
regularly submit statements of accounts.
58.       Because of the absence of complete accounts for both NWSC and WDD,
the appraisal mission collected available information and prepared estimated
statements of income and expenditure for NWSC and WDD-s water supply operation
for the year ending June 30, 1979. These estimates are set out in Annex IV.
Tariffs
59.       The current water supply and sewerage rate for metered water supply
is UShs 10.80 1/ per thousand gallons for Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe; lower
rates are applied in other towns and areas. Very few consumers, however,
are charged on this basis because most of them have unmetered supply due to
the absence of working meters. When water consumption is not metered, two
sets of rates based on the annual rental value of the property are charged for
*      water supply and sewerage services; a General Water Rate (GWR) applies to all
owners or occupants of property located within 1,000 feet of a water main
regardless of whether they are connected or not, and an additional Internal
Supply Rate (ISR) applies to consumers with connected water supply.  GWR and
ISR are at different levels for different urban centers.
1/   Of which UShs 4.80 is sewerage charge.



60.       Lack of metering results in considerable waste, as there is no
incentive to economize on use of water. While both NWSC and WJDD intended to
install meters, this policy has not been implemented due to lack of funds. It
is estimated that if all water supply connections were metered, revenues would
increase by 25% to 40%, significantly reducing the operating losses now being
incurred by both NWSC and WDD. The proposed installation of about 15,000
meters will improve the situation.
61.       The estimates illustrated in Annex IV show that present revenues do
not cover the operating costs of either NWSC or WDD. It would require approxi-
mately a 50% increase in revenues for NWSC to cover the estimated operating
loss and interest. While an increase in revenues of this order might result
from the rehabilitation of water supply systems currently underway (para. 35)
which would increase water production and sales revenues, there is a strong
case for a comprehensive tariff study to provide an appropriate framework for
future water tariff policy. This study, to be financed under the proposed
credit, would inter alia, assess demand growth for water in the selected
towns, cost of additional facilities to be constructed to meet the growing
demand, and the consequent increases in operating costs and debt service
requirements together with a reasonable return on investment. The results of
this study would be available by September 30, 1982, so that the relevant
policy decisions can be made before further investments in this sector are
made; it would be submitted to the Association for its review and comments
(Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). By October 31, 1982, the
Government would prepare a program for implementing a revised tariff structure
satisfactory to the Association, which would ensure financial self-sufficiency
for NWSC and ensure that WDDs revenues are adequate to cover its operating
expenses. The revised tariff structure would be applied by NWSC and WDD by
January 1, 1983 (Section 3.01(f) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Within six months of the completion of the Project, the Government, through
WDD and NWSC, would prepare and submit to the Association a Project Completion
Report analyzing the implementation of the proposed project and achievement of
its objectives (Section 3.05(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 2.07(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Justification and Risks
62.       The proposed engineering project would represent the first important
step in providing basic needs in water and sanitation to about 1.5 million
people presently not served in Uganda-s major urban centers. It would
strengthen NWSC and WDD and help the Government to develop a training program
for the water sector. The hygienist provided under the project would provide
the Government with proposals for the education of the general public in
water use and hygienic excreta disposal in the context of local practices and
conditions, which combined with better services would improve health standards.
63.       The risk involved in the proposed engineering project is minimal as
the consultants for the major part of the studies have been short listed and
their proposals are being examined (para. 52); no major delay in the imple-
mentation of the project is therefore anticipated. It is intended that the
proposed engineering studies would result in a major urban water supply and
sewerage construction project. The major risks involved in the construction



- 19 -
project, which would be designed under the proposed project, are the Govern-
ments ability to develop an appropriate policy framework for the sector and
the current heavy demand upon Government financial resources which may curtail
or delay the implementation of a further project. Inefficient administration
may also impede the development and implementation of government sector
policies. However, the high priority accorded by the Government to urban
water supply and sanitation is expected to ensure timely mobilization of
external finances for the construction project. Moreover, through the pre-
paration, under the proposed engineering project, of engineering studies, a
comprehensive manpower training program, and carrying out analyses of critical
sectoral issues, these risks are considerably reduced.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 11, 1981



-20-                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
'IGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV      ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             236.0
AGRICULTURAL      105.4                                 MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   160.0       210.0      280.0                 228.9                   726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       30.0         74.0      48.0                   80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        6.8         9.8       12.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.2            8.0       11.1                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         23.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           58.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                        29.0         42.0      53.0                   27.4                    61.7
PER SQ. 1Gi. AGRICULTURAL LAND     72.0         98.0      117.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.8         44.0      45.0                   44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                          54.0         53.0      52.0                  52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          3.0       3.0                    2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          3.7        2.9                   2.7                     2.7
URBAN                               7.3          6.3        7.3                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TUOUSAND)       43.0        43.0       45.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TEOUSAND)       21.0        17.0       14.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6         3.0        3.0                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUASC (THOUSANDS)        ..         3.8       16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          107.0         99.0       91.0                  91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0         98.0      91.0                   90.2                    92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.0         55.0      57.0                   53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0         24.0      26.0                   18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.0         22.0       17.0                  27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0          49.0       53.0                  45.3                    50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            160.0       120.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         22.0      35.0                   23.2                    31.0
URBAN                                ..         88.0      100.0                  58.0                    66.8
RURAL                                 ..        17.0      29.J                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        76.0       94.0                  28.9
URBAN                                ..         84.0      82.0                   67.0
RURAL                                 ..        76.0       95.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12958.0/c    9210.0/c 27599.0                 30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      9424.0/c    8030.0/c.d4298.0                  5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             795.0        640.0     624.0                 1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                              56.0         65.0
RURAL                            1622.0       1849.0         ..                    ..                      .
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..       154.S/d
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         4.8
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



-21-                                             AMNEX I
Page 2 of 5
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  49.0         61.0      53.0                   57.7                    61.7
MALE                  65.0         72.0       63.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEMALE                32.0         49.0       44.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          6.0        7.0                  10.0                    20.6
MALE                   4.0          9.0       10.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0          3.0        4.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  12.0            7.0        6.0                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.0         34.0      35.0                   45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                           18.0         20.0      21.0                   25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         35.0           ..         ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          3.0        2.5                   3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          12.0         24.0      21.0                   31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.4        6.1                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    8.0          8.0        5.0                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3             ..        0.1                    ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (ThOUSANDS)       3049.0       4207.7    5120.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.2         33.7      34.0                   33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.4         85.9      83.0                   80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.6          4.6       6.0                    8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.6         43.5       42.3                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                  58.3         57.3       56.1                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                                30.7         29.5       28.3                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           46.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         16.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 138.2
*                          RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                   86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      87.0                   65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government establishments only.
April, 1980



-22-                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Altough the deets a   drawn from  sources generally judged the mast authoritative aed reliable, in  should also be noted thee they may net be itter-
etlooully cooyarshle beteuse ot the look ot standatdieed definitions sod noonoeptoteed by different ounsordes it collertiog she data.  The data are, none-
thelesc, useful tt describe orders of magnitude. indicate streds, and nharaeteriIe tertaho mejoi  diffeeretes hetwen eo..tries.
The refereene groups are (1) the same country genup of the subject country and (2) a coInory group vith someohat high-er aerage inoome thee he eountry group
of sInthe subjt  fy f p  ta  " l  ds O   tohers   g p where "Middle ILlos  Nntoh Afi ai end Middle tet" i  chosen           ue   strooger
soo-ulua   ffissittas).  Is the rnfereooe geoup data the scRugs  n  pepulatir weighted arithmetic nee  fo  eehiodic--o sod ah-s  oly  hb.o at
least half of the rountee   in a group hen data foe that indiatoe.  Stine the Io.e.age of Couet ins .moeg the ledicators depe ido  on the oviilibility of
date and is not u            tiforrs  osuriun suet be nloernised ie relating averages of see indicytor to so-the.  Tb co  overoges arr only useful it cosyaring the value
of one indiotor- ata  ioemongthe  ootorynd reference groups.
LAND AREA (thousand sq.ks.)                                                                rulstlon  er lyy;:iao-ropuatoo   uttsdon Ny numet us prooticiog phy-
total - Tonal surfa          -P area comprising lund aresod inland oaters .ic;u,.  .oo,icilc   -or a radical  school at utuvetalty level.
griculcura U -                                                                          "        .t.maee of esPiculnuesl ans used tomporarnly on perosonotly  Porulatuon net tuso Person - Poylsnion divided ty ouster of ytanoloina
for crops, yan-u-es, macket cod kiochec gardenh   or cc lie f-aloo; 1917 dat.           eale ard female grad uate nurses. p-acti-l nurse-    , ud assistanst  urses.
GNt  PEy  CAAPIA (tUS) - GNo per caPita esntites as current monkht prons., el-               n e       l to ta l) T        'I d"i ed  bY  thir  ep  gn   o   o  hospita  bed
1970, sod 1978 data.                                                                      habiLrttion rootrs.  gspinulsbLore  entseablieb nts  peiemnoP ly  ctafged
tricity) in hllogramo at coal equivalent pot capina; 19h0, 1970, ued 1970                 curse, eidwife, arc,) vhNCh offer te-patient anemeop  dtionl end providea
limited range of medical facilinies. For esttistical purpose surban hospi-
Ttal iaclude 01900 pritcipal grin- rl and operleiNeed hospitals, and rural
POULTo   ouANDo, Mid-Sear (mAIISTICS es  -h   f  uy1;            90ad 7                   honyitals  local yr  rural bcspitoln aod medical and n        -ternty onters,
ota.                                                         1                          Adoslcbn per Hospital ced - Total nuber of adetasions ta or diaobarges
fro  'osylt el  d - Rded Sy the numben so beds.
Trbao Pocutat ion fproreent of total) - Retoic of urbaonto tonal population;rXws ass
differten  defivlnions of  urban areas ray *ffeci  oeeparabtlisy of data            HOUSINC
among cunPtres;                     1960, 1970, ld0and 1978 da                        Avenage  ier of Household feersass per household) - total, urban  and eseal-
Popularson Projections                                                                    A houseeheld consiasts of a group of individuals avho share liting quarrere
Population in year 20ON - Current population projeotocons are based on 1980             and their eelsnseals,  A boarder on lndger may or may not be inoluded io
tonul populasiun  by age and sex and their rortality sod fertility races.             th  household foc stetisninal purposes
Projection parareters for soctalicy ratsa cemyr ice of three lrevelsassuv           uceraee number of persons rer Poor - natal, urban. asd rural - Average put-
log life eysonooacy an birth increasingowith counoon '0 pen tayito inoose             her of persons per rcot lInll.1  urbae, aod rural occupied oevnentlosel
level, und female 11lfe enpeonsocy stabilizing at 17.1 iears.  The para-              dwellings, renpectively,  lslllngn exclude non-postoaset strootures aed
neovo for  ortillity ruse also have three levels uouEiitg decline in                  usoccopied parts.
foct11lity acoor ding to ittuor  level and past family planning perfornasce.        Access no tlernrlclty  (nercent of dnnlliaael - total, urban, and rareL -
lath country is the sesoigned one of these oncne coshinanloes of mortolicy            Tonventtonal doelllogs with electrliciy is living quarters as pretg
und fertility  crends for pnojectioo purpooses                                        of total, urban, and rural doellingsrespectively-
Stationary population -Ine toslatonary populatlos theree is no growth since
Lhe birth rate is equal to toh  death rate, and also the age structure re-    EDUCATIOU
rains constant.  This is achieved only after ferciiity rates decline to             ndjunted EnrollmeentaR,tios
The replacement ievel of unit net neproduction rte, ohen each generariot              Prinarcuchool -  total, sale sad fanle - iroas total, sale end fntule
of 00mev replaces  Itself enattly.  The stationery poyslaltor sizeroas                  eseolleent of all ages at the prisary level as percentages of respnotive
estinated on the tools of the projocted character istlos of the population              primary school-age populations: sosmally includes childnre  aged b-lI
in thr  year 2000, and the vale of  decline of fertility  rsor to replace-              yearn bun adjusted for different lengths of primary eduoation; for
nett level.                                fountrie ...                                                    i     1  d HOUSING
Year stationary eopulation is reached - the year whet stationany population                iunriao spo  olnversa  6 h l  hdin   t e  Casp  ea          110 peres
sloe has be so reached,.                                 b..   ..198             A sinu  sea  pupls Ar below  r ITov  th  ofioy   sobst  age,I.dI
Ppuloihasbeen inesity                                                                 Senoqdary nchool - total, maLe ailnd female - Computed ^seahove;aetoendary
Population  Density        dedhtduationrequiresat least fer years of approved primary instruction;
Per n. h. - Mud-year population per square kiloneter   h..f b_cares) of                    provides aeneral. vn,a, ionele oe ceather crbining insdrrtines ton -   upig
total area.                                                                             usually of 17 no 10 years of ago; tomdes pondlenle ro1rees  rar  generally
Per eq.h. . gricultural  land - Tptted as shove for agricultural land                      excluded.
Poralianioc doe Stcructure (percent) - thtldren Il-lu pesos), norhsoa-ase (15-            voAisolod   ntecolos   Int dosr''iel  or orber progeems vhich operate indepen-
64 pears), and centred (65 years and  over) as percentages of mid-year pupa-               dently or ta depoetments of secondary institotions
lotion; i960, 1970, sod 1970 data.                                                      Purul-tearber ratio - crimars. end serondaro - Total students enrolled in
Population Grovnb tne (rerrent  - total - Annual growth rates of total mid-                  primary sod secondary levels divided by nushers of tearhers is the
psea  poy ladions  for  1950-6f, 19h0-7O.  aod 1970-78.                                   rcrresponding levels.
Population Grovth gate (pernent) - urban - Annual growth rates of urban popu-             hdult literacy rote (parrene) - Literate adolta (able to read sod write)
letlons for 1950-hO, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                asaypercennage of total adult population aged 15 years and oven.
Crude Birth tans free thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of aid-pear
population; 1900, 1910, sod 1970 dana-                                              CONSUMFETION
CrudoeasD  totR e (ear thousand) - Annual doaths per thoausad of mid-year               Paasengsr Cars (per thousanid aePrulOtie  -Yiu Peen uge  oars   heipr matoRn
Crots nepvoduction Nate -Average number of daughcers aewomn sill hear in                   nil itary vehirles.
her normal reproduoitie period if she experifeces present age-specthit fer-           tadio -eteiters (nor thousand ropalatior) - hll typee of reteivera fer edti
tility  pate . usually fis-year uavrages enpding it 19h0, 1970, and 1977f broadcasts no general public pr thosand  of population; serlodna unli-
faatl7 Planninge- Acceptors, uAnual (thousands) - Annual snub"P of acceptors                  sed     i      ;run cye     i   ears shen registrasion of radio see
of birth-cootrol  devices under auspices of national family planning program            ass i       n f  a     oe  rens  pears mY nt b  compareble ainne mast
Panilo Plannina-Usars (reroent  of married nosno) - Percentuge of mairried                 colntries abolished licenuig.
vooen of child-bearing ago (lb-At years) vho use birth-control devices to             1TV teoeivers (perr tboosand nPoplation) - TV receivers for broadcast to
all sucyled vooen to sane afe group.                                                    geusrl public per .hooaand popultnioq; noolades onlisentsd TV .eceivees
d-OiD AUD  fertility   tNeup-apir Cirhulanios (pr thosand rrulptiosy                               - theses the average airrae-
loden of Food Production Der Capita )lMhM1-Pl. ) - loden of per rapine annual                tion of "daily geteraf interest n ewpaper", defined  as a pertodic-l pub-
production oF all food comeodities.  Produotion excludes seed and feed ard              liostlen devoted primarily to reoording general news,  It is considnered
is on calendar year basis.  Cqosedinine  cover prinery godod  (e.g.  usenrarcn          to ha "doly' if iteappearsat leat  f our timessa veb.
iostead oF sugar) ohich are editlr and contain notrienro (e.g. toffee sod             Tineme Annual attendance per Caeita noer tear -OBsead on the nutber nf
tea are excluded).  Aggregate production of each country is based non                   nokeos sold doriog the yer  inoIuding edmieie   to drive-in oinemas
nattonal average producer price weights; 1961-6I, 1970, and 197B data,                  nod mobile uits .       e                        f Ifa
Par cantoa sorrlv of calories (nerceot of requlrements)( - fonputed finsn   o e  nt
energy equivaleot of tet food nuppites aveilahle it country per ta pits          LABOR PORCt
par day   Atailable supplies comprise domensir prodution, isports lets              Total Labor Poh    (tb tand) - trd  ifoally  ctiv  persons, inoluding
...pors, and changes in t tochr Net supplies enlode animal fend, sands,               a rmd fo   ced    moy   ha  s onluCR    oc                        ,i
quantities used in food processing, and Nooses in distnihuoton.  Require-             lefinittoos in tart cus counteies are net comparable; l960, 1971 end
mPn. s eet Mimited by PFA based on physiologic-l needs for norma l a oi-                 1970 dote.
nit5 and health considering enyitoomeotal teepereture, body onights, age            Female (percent) - Pomale labor force as pernensaga of notal labor torus.
and sen distribution of popuiat ion, and allosttg 10 percent for ousne at           hAricalture (recroos) - Labor force in fermiog, forsaney, booting sod
household leool; 1961-65, 1970, sod 1977 dana.                                        fishing as percentage of total labnr force; 1961, 1971 and 1970 data.
Par capina supply vf protein (grams per day) - Protein0 coriest of par ca pita         loduonro )rerrnot) - Labor force is mining, construction. mainufentoriog
rot supply of food per day.  Net tupply of food is defined aso above.  Re-            and electrticiy, water sod gaseas percentsage of total labor force; 1960,
quirenetso for all countries established by USIA protide for sie,mus                   1970 and 1970 dast.
allousoce of h0 aream  of total protein per day sod 20 grass of eninai and          Peroicinanice Rtot  (pecet) - total male  and female - Participation or
yulse protolo, of ohich 10 arena should be arimal proetein   Tbhesn stand-            ant iryos        see pecmuedn a tonal. ab,i and femaile labor forcease
ords are loner than those of 71 grams of otoal pro trio end 21 grue                     voongs of      toal  mac -e  *e3Ple sod fematle ppolaition of all a gee respeosively;
snimal protsole as an averuge for the world, propcosd by PAl in the Third              196D, 1970, And 171; data.  Tbhear are ILO's participation rates reflecting
World Food Surtey; 1961-65, 1971 and 19(7 data.                                                  Of s u    th  poultin f          lon  tire trend        A    g ..tIl
Per canto  rctin sopply from ucisal and pulse - Pro tei-nupply of food ds-               ge-is    are      of thation,l    s b           t     rd        f     t
mate  ar  fro  ouisoa  toroo.....  '-V-i
riced from animals and pulses in grnam  per day; 1961-h5, 1970 and 1977 date.    ocuomloo  DFPosesnvc tatis - tatio of population onder 15 and 65 and acer
Child (uses 1-4) A oStalit  Rtot     (per thousand) - A1nna  deaths pen thousand in        no the tota i  br f
age group 1-u ye-fvr  no  children .n this age group; for noon  developing coon-              e    a        a or  orc
cries data dentved  fros life tables; 19h0, 1971 and 1977 dats.                     INCGME lIttRIfTIOn
BEALTh                                                                                     Peroentase of Private Income (both in cash and kind) - teosivAd by rirbest
Life tpectan       a  Brh (vets) - Average noeber of yearn  of life remaIning              hfir, r            . U prcht,                   ero     e   poorest  AN te
so birth; 1960, 1970 sod 1978 dana.                                                       ousePoIO
Infant Doroalito tone (per thousand) - An nual deaths of inf.ants under one year   POVERTY TART 0ROfPS
oF age pat thousand lone birnhs.                                                       Intimated Absolute Povety Inoee Level its) per cnait-) - arbas end rural -
Access so hael gat0r (per1n90   of 9otulasion) - total, urban, and meral -                 Absolut e      t   overov lenci  tt nme le    below shiob a eldimal
Somber of  people  (toal  urban, ad rurul) at  neasonable acces  to sfe                                  p        eigt p
hater supply  (includesti-  aned surf are eapern. or untroated hut unconsminatod         oforiiodR i-L   adequate  ei..  p.peseti Alltypd   rqi-t  is not
vacer ouch as that from pnotected btrrholes, opringo, aod  anoltaro oells) at          intimoted Relative Pceveen  lersee Level (11$ per taplia) - seban sad total -
percentages of their reuect ice ypopulatiyon    l an orban area a public                 Rural relad ine poverty i      pnte level is one-third of overage per ca pita
Ftuntain cr stanlost lnoated tot sore than 200 =oters fros a .ouse ray he                personaI intne Or th  totryd Urban level is dsrived from the rurai
vonlOen h a.  being d th   -rReasona hie arces ci of   at house.  In rural areas         Levi vith adjust et   f    i g er toNt  f liing  in  urban areas.
reFisoable access vould imply that the hoosedlf e or membern of the houtebold           otl.aird Popula.tion Eelov Absolute Poverty Incoe Lnel (torrent) - urban
do vrc have no spoed a disprogorcoouaPe part of the day in frching the                   and rural -Percent of population (urhan end rural) who se tabsolte  oar".
ess.                                                                                      g ...LcrrIa Olpbosal (noroaro of PonulotoT - icool urban. uod
turol - Nuombec of people (total, urhar, atd rural) served by noorets
d lscosal an cerrcotagrs of cheAt respectcice popuclaroons  intrena dls-                                               Neonomic and Sorial Data Diveision
ponolac a  ncul.udn tbe collcthvtand duspuo aN   ntnt ortolthootocetrarmes                                        EconomicAntabysissand ProjocttlnssDepartment
of busancrt>cnnoard ova  r-nater by ontrr-hocrne sysnr   orttheuse cfApi,lD
pit privicT atd simiuar inscallaniIons



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
UGANDA - ECONOMIC DATA
AM__                                                         ___POATIO_                     DENSJE
236,000 sq. kr.                                              12.4 million (mid-1978)        52.5 per sq. hn (1978)
Rate of growth: 3.37
pop'Tir-O'" C.rm CTE=TSTTCS (1977)                                  IEALTh (Ca. 1975)
Ctrude Birth Race (per 1,000)                    45.0            PopuLatioa per physician                     28,330
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                     14.0            Population per hospital bed                     640
ACCESS TO SAFr  'ATE7 (Ca. 1975)                                   MM%TXTIOJr
Perceac of population                            35.0              Adult literacy rate ,. (1960)                  35
Primary school earollmnt % (Ca. 1975)        51
=CTTRITVON (Ca. 1975)
Calorie intake as percent of requirventU         90.0
Per capita protein intaka (grams per day'        54.0
GWP?E  CAPI   TIT l978a-/  USS 280
Cross 'Natrinal ?-roduct in 1973-8  (estimates)                   ANNUAL RATE 0? GRO'AZ
(7. coastant iriceO)
lS,$ M-!lllloni    7.         1958 2     1973-78    1978
GC.? at mar?et prices               3,260         lC0.0           3.0        -0.7      -4.-
G-ross fii=d laves3nt                 1;            4.3          -3.       -11.1      -1S.7
Grots naticmal. savinG                139           4.3           0.1      -19.8       98.2
Current Accaont Balauce              -131          -4.0
Zxport of Coods and N$S               332          10.2          .2.2      - -1.4     -12.0
Import of Cood5s and 'u!              458          14.0          -8.1       - 5.2     -30.0
Ourif0r 'C  19781/                                 CZmTRAL GOVTEhIY1   Mktak/
USS Million   7.                                    Shs. !'illion          7. of CD e/
Agricultura             1,34Z       56.5                                    1977/78                 197       72/73
Industry                  235        7.2           Reva*UU                  5,856            23.4           11.7
Services                            36.3           Cu-rrnt Expenditure      4.113            16.4           14.0
Total                 3,260      100.0           Current Surplus          1,743             7.0           -2.3
Capital Expenaditure     1,755             7.0            5.2
a/  GCP, CDP, Per Capita CX?, Lnvestment, saving and sectoral output data
have been calculated by the same conversion technique as the World Sank
Atlias and are subject to revijew and further elaboration.  A.ll other
conversious to doL1ars in this table are at tbe average e=.bange rate
prevailing during the period concarned.
b/ Fiscal years are July 13t to June 30th.
INot Applicable.                                                                      December 1979



-24-                                  ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 5
UGANDA - ECONOMIC DATA
mEy. CRQ1T M!MD ?VIC!s
I974      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979 June
(Shs. aL1lion oucstanding end or period)
K=w& Supply                                                 3,010      3,257     4,497      5,787      7,053      8,371
Met Credit to Covtrft                                       2,895      3,532     4,869      5,532      7,207      8,178
Credit co Private Sector                                    1,570      1,681      1,912     2,834      3,207      3,334
(Percentagee or Index Numbers)
oMey as a  of CDP bi                                           17         16         19         23         29
hmpa1A Low Tacma Cost of Living Index (1960 * 100)            341        410        601     1,133      1,705
A=mial percentages chanret La:
Cost of Livia& Idex                                          67         20         47         89         50
Iat Credit to Governme                                       35         22        38         14         30         33
Credit to Privace Sector                                     30          7         14        48         13          3
%ALMCE OF PKM!ITS                                                          rC)2ISt SEXPORWS (AV1ACE t975-78)
1975      1976       1977      1978                                uss Mln      %
eloilia US$)
COfUee               337.3       87.9
Erort of Goods, K            248       333        553        332         Cocton                 21.5        5.6
Imparts of Goods, MS                   281        471        458         Tea                    11.8        3.1
lesource Gap                 -65         52         U       -126          Copper                 4.8         1.3
Tobacco                 2.0        0.5
Factor Pavmnvt (net)          -4         .7       -11         -1         Other                   6.4       1.
Net Trausfers                 13          2        -3         -3            Total              383.8      100.0
Current Accounu  Balac*e    -56          47        (8       -130
MERRAL DEBT, DECETIER 31. 1977 S/
Net Priveat Long-Te=m
Capital                     .5        -9        .L5        -20                                                 5S5 xfln
Set %ax Sorraving                                                         Public Debt, including guaraatred,
DIsburscs                   29        11         24         18            outstanding aud disbursed             215.0
Aaortizadon                 10         1         29          5
1 9        -         .5        13
Other Capitol (et)-           42        -36       -49        133          Public Debt Service Ratio 1977 -/        3.3
Increase in reserves           -         _2         1        -14         DMD/TDA LZUDING MDecenber 31) (i1lio,i rJSS)
Cross reserves (end yea)    28           37        38         51                                      1977           1978
Petrolau  imports SI          51        55         55         39                                 IJRD-MA    TMR         D-&
Outstanding and
Diabursed             2.4  43.0       2.1  44.5
1AIT OF vCIIA1WT                                                        Vadisbursed                -   4.9        -   3 -
OuIstandLng imci.
Ahnal Averages                         Vadisbur3sd            2.4  47.9      2.1  47.7
1977      1978    jan -June 1979
V531.00 - Sb.              A.M       7.62          M5
Sh. 1  a M5                0.121     0.130         0.133
a/ Provisional
G CDP ham been estimtad using t!he saw technique es indicated
in !ootnote a/ an page 1.
E External public debt data -my be Lncomplete.   ha public debc
erv-ice ratio Ls dcbt service as a percentage of exports of
gods and mon-factor iervIces.
dI .ucludate ccumulatlion of arraars.
o/ Crude and derivatives
%ot availAble
Met applicaole                                                                                     December 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO UGANDA
AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year      Borrower     Purpose                  Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and six credits fully disbursed                 8.40   40.73
258-UG   1971     Uganda        Education                        7.30       1.02
983-UG   1980     Uganda        Reconstruction
Credit I                       72.50 /1  72.50
Total                                          8.40  120.53      73.52
of which has been repaid                     7.66      .92
Total now outstanding                           .74  119.61
Amount sold:                       8.32
of which has been repaid        7.58          .74    0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA /2              0.00  119.61
Total undisbursed                              0.00   73.52
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1980
Nil
/1   Includes participation of US$17.5 million from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. In addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of $20.0
million and Can$3.0 million have been made available toward the
reconstruction program.
/2   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.  SUMMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
No.       Year      Borrower       Purpose               Bank /1         Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                 93.40
638-EA   1969      EAHC           Harbours               35.00               0.52
674-EA   1970      EARC           Railways               42.40              0.03
865-EA   1972      EAHC           Harbours               26.50              0.35
914-EA   1973      EAPTC          Telecommunications    32.50               0.61
1204-EA   1976      EADB           Development Finance   15.00               4.87
Total                                           244.80              6.38
of which has been repaid                        60.16
Total now outstanding                           184.64
Amount sold                 24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36                  0.00
Total now held by Bank /1                       184.64
Total undisbursed                                 6.38              6.38
/1   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1980
There are currently two projects under execution:
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 258-UG - Second Education Project: US$7.3 million
Credit of June 23, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 26,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Project implementation is now about four years behind schedule.
Prior to the war, a number of remedial actions were taken to speed up imple-
mentation: these included strengthening the Project Unit, streamlining
Government processing of project related matters, and contracting for civil
works. Reflecting these measures, progress towards educational objectives was
satisfactory; project implementation had advanced by 12% from August 1978 to
January 1979, raising the overall completion of the project to 48%. However,
following the events in Uganda, in which the war and subsequent looting
affected most contractors and school sites, the status of the project com-
ponents had to be reviewed and the effect of the war assessed. A supervision
mission visited Uganda in November 1979 to begin this work. Arrangements
have been made to enable the project to be fully implemented; the closing date
has been postponed by 24 months to December 31, 1981 to allow completion of
the project.
RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Credit No. 983-UG - Reconstruction Credit I: US$72.5 million
Credit of April 2, 1980; Date of10ffectiveness - May 1, 1980,
Closing Date - December 31, 1980-
Along with the IDA credit, which includes US$17.5 million repre-
senting the Government of the Netherland's participation, a US$20.0 million
EEC Special Action Credit and a Can$3.0 million Canadian Grant have been made
available to the Government in support of its reconstruction program. The
total amount of about US$95.5 million was to be released in two tranches.
No funds have been disbursed yet.
1/   The closing date was postponed on December 16, 1980 by 18 months
to June 30, 1982, to allow for full disbursement of all proceeds of
the credits and to avoid a further postponement.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community. Following the disintegration of
the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States 1/ of
undisbursed balances of loans to the East African Community Corporations at
October 1, 1977 was approved by the Executive Directors on January 12, 1978
on the basis of recommendations made in a report dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312). Agreements in line with those recommendations were subsequently
signed by each of the Partner States on January 25, 1978. A portion of the
undisbursed balances under two loans (Loan 674-EA - East African Railways
Corporation, and Loan 914-EA - East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation) was allocated to Uganda. Industrial projects in Uganda are also
eligible for financing under the ongoing East African Development Bank Project
(Loan 1204-EA). Progress on implementation of these projects is summarized
below. Although the closing date for Loans 674-EA and 914-EA has expired,
since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly
defined under the terms of the agreement of January 25, 1978, disbursements
continued to be made. Uganda's allocation under Loans 674-EA and 914-EA has
been fully disbursed.
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways
1969-72 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative
and political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. All three countries have enacted legislation to establish
their own Railways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
at October 1, 1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
US$ Million
Kenya                               2.0
Tanzania                            3.8
Uganda                              1.9
Total            7.7
1/   Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
This loan is now fully disbursed except for US$27,000 of the amount allocated
to Kenya; this amount is expected to be disbursed shortly.
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Directors approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent, out of the proceeds of this loan, to finance the
East African mediation effort. This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million
provided by UNDP for this purpose, is expected to cover the total estimated
cost of the mediation service.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and susbscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project-s completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of head-
quarters. About US$31.8 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
US$ Million
Kenya                                 2.4
Tanzania                              3.5
Uganda                                0.1
Total              6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio, with the arrears affected the portfolio has fallen
from 50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1980. About US$10.1
million of the-loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommited balance
amounts to approximately US$1.9 million. The closing date has been postponed
to June 30, 1981 to allow completion of the project.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First Bank Group mission to consider the project          November 1979
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                         Government/NWSC
(c)  Date of departure of appraisal mission                    February 1980
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations                        January 1981
(e)  Planned effectiveness                                     April 1981
SECTION II    Special Project Implementation Action
None
SECTION III   Special Conditions
(a) US$6.7 million equivalent of the Credit proceeds would be passed
on to NWSC as equity (para. 48);
(b) MLMWD will maintain an adequately staffed Project Coordination Unit
to supervise and coordinate the Project and NWSC will maintain an
adequately staffed engineering department to supervise the consultants'
work and designs; (para. 49); and
(c) By October 31 1982, the Government would prepare a program for the
implementation of a revised water supply and sewerage tariff structure
satisfactory to the Association and by January 1983, the Government
would adopt such revised tariff to be applied by NWSC and WDD
(para. 61).



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ESTIMATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURES
Year Ended June 30, 1979
Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe
NWSC Estimated Accounts                                     (UShs Thousand)
Estimated Gross Revenue                                        26,400
Estimated Operating Expenses
Pumping and Water Treatment                                   4,216
Distribution                                                  5,745
Sewage and Sewerage                                           2,470
Vehicles and Plant Usage                                      5,116
Administration                                               14,006
Depreciation                                                  4,500
Other                                                           753
Total Operating Expenses                                  36,806
Estimated Operating Income                                    -10,406
Estimated Interest                                            - 2,163
Estimated Net Income                                          -12 ,569
------ Year ended June 30, 1979
WWD Estimated Accounts 1/                    Mbale  Mbarara  Masaka  Tororo   Total
(UShs Thousand)
Estimated Sales Revenue                     724     633      816     487      2,660
Estimated Expenses
Salaries and Wages                       645      824      873     336      2,678
Travel and Transport                      45       59       60      25        189
Electricity and Fuel
(for pumping, etc.)                      9        9       9        9         36
Other (chemicals, etc.)                   27       27       27      27        108
726     919      969     397      3,011
Surplus of Revenue over Operation
and Maintenance Costs                     -2    -286    -153        90       -351
1/   The estimates do not include depreciation allowance on fixed acs2ts,
interest on loans, nor any allocation for WDD's headquarters coSts in
Kampala. The value of fixed assets and the funds used in the past could
not be ascertained because of lack of records.



