Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13420
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
AUGUST 2, 1994
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Rupee (Rs.)
Rs.1              =  US$0.077 at appraisal        (Nov 1982)
Rs.13             =  US$1      at appraisal       (Nov 1982)
Rs.1              =  US$0.040 at project close (Dec 1992)
Rs.25             =  US$1      at project close (Dec 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)          =    0.0394 inches (in)
1 meter                    =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =    0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)            10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (km2) =    0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.Olkm2 =    2.4711 acres (ac) or 10, 000 sq m
1 Marla                    =   20.90 square meters or 225 sq ft
1 Kanal                    =   418 square meters or 20 marlas
1 liter (1)                =    1.0567 quarts liquid or
0.2642 US gallon (gal) or
0.9081 US quart dry (qt)
1 cubic meter (m3)         =   35.3147 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita              0.2642 US gallons per
per day (lcd)              capita per day (gcpd)
1 cubic meter per second =  264.1721 US gallons per
(m3/sec)      second (gal/sec)
1 metric tonne (MT)        =  2204 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
HBFC           =   House Building Finance Corporation
LDA            =   Lahore Development Authority
LUDP           =   Lahore Urban Development Project
MCL            =   Metropolitan Corporation Lahore
PUDP           =   Punjab Urban Development Project
WAPDA          =   Water and Power Development
Authority
WASA           =   Water and Sanitation Agency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Lahore Urban Development Project (Credit 1348-PAK)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Lahore Urban Development
Project (Credit 1348-PAK)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed by
the Borrower.
The project focused heavily on capacity building to prepare and implement integrated urban
programs for improving living conditions of the urban poor through better housing and improved
access to municipal services. Project completion was delayed about 4.5 years mainly due to the fact
that the project was the first of its kind in Lahore and the implementing agencies were relatively
inexperienced with such an operation. Land acquisition and procurement problems contributed to
the delay as well.
Achievements of the physical components were substantial. Particularly the upgrading of the
Lahore's historical Walled City was successful in meeting the objectives within the given cost-frame
and provided sustained benefits to 70,000 low-income inhabitants of the area. On the other hand,
a sites and services scheme faced serious land acquisition and plot allotment problems and is expected
to become fully utilized only some ten years after project completion. The project involved two main
institutions one of which effectively developed its capacity to plan and execute housing schemes. The
other institution chiefly responsible for maintaining municipal services including solid waste
management was slow in introducing expected improvements in its operations.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, and its institutional development impact as
substantial. Sustainability of project benefits is rated uncertain as the allocation of sites and services
plots is still expected to take a long time to complete, and as the capacity to maintain municipal
services remained weak at project completion.
The PCR is of high quality and provides an exceptionally interesting and candid review of the
project's implementation features and relevant lessons. Part II presents particularly interesting and
practical lessons on various aspects of project design and implementation.
The project may be audited.
Attachment                                    (
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .             1
A. Project Identity. 
B. Background. 
Context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
IDA's Role in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Sector Policy Objectives.                                                2
C.    Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Objectives   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  2
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D.    Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E. Project Implementation.                                                     3
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up . . . . . . . . . .    3
Implementation Schedule.                                                 4
Procurement.                                                             4
Project Costs.                                                           5
Disbursements.                                                           5
Credit Allocations.                                                      5
F.    Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Physical Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Financial Performance.                                                   6
Impact of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Rate of Return Comparisons.                                              7
G.    Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
H.    IDA's Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
I. Borrower Performance.                                                       9
J.    Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
K. Consultancy Services.                                                      10
L.    Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .   11
A.  Introduction.. ....................  11
B.    Walled City Upgrading Phase I Component . . . . . . . . . . .   11
C.    Gujjapura Site and Service Scheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
D.    Solid Waste Management ................. .. .   15



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 3.  Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated
and Actual Disbursements (SDR '000) . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Table 5A. Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
5B. Project Financing .....  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .   .   20
Table 6A. Project Results - Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . .   21
6B. Project Results - Economic Impact . . . . . . . . . . .   22
6C. Project Results - Financial Impact  . . . . . . . . . .   22
6D. Project Results - Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Table 7.  Status of Covenants ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
Table 8A. Use of IDA Resources - Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . .   28
8B. Use of IDA Resources - Missions . . . . . . . . . . . .   29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Lahore Urban Development
Project, for which Credit 1348-PAK in the amount of SDR 14.8 million (US$16.0
million) was approved on April 19, 1983. The Credit was closed on December
31, 1992 after four extensions, 4.5 years behind schedule. At that time 82%
of the original credit amount was disbursed. The last disbursement was in
April 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division Country Department III, of the South Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). Part II is
unedited, apart from minor grammatical clarifications, and its contents are
not attributable to IDA.
Preparation of this PCR was started during IDA's final supervision mission of
the Project in January 1993 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between IDA and the Borrower; and internal IDA memoranda.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The basic objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen the
capacity of local institutions to prepare and implement integrated urban
development programs to arrest the decay in urban living conditions; (b)
improve municipal services and develop strategies to cope with continuing
urban growth; and (c) address the delivery of services and shelter to the
urban poor.The Project comprised the following components: (a) infrastructure
upgrading in the Walled City of Lahore; (b) a sites and services scheme in
Gujjapura; (c) house construction/rehabilitation loans; (d) solid waste
collection, municipal management and maintenance; and (e) studies.
Implementation Experience
2.        The Lahore Urban Development Project, Credit 1348-PAK,  (LUDP), the
first IDA-assisted urban development project in Pakistan, was originally
scheduled to be completed by mid-1988, but was eventually closed in December
1992 after four extensions. The civil works at Gujjapura were substantially
completed, the Walled City component was complete and the solid waste
management program was fully operational. The housing investment component of
the project proved unsuccessful and most of the component's funds were
reallocated.
3.        The main reasons for the delay were: (a) the relative inexperience
of Lahore Development Authority (LDA) in handling IDA-assisted programs; (b)
serious land acquisition difficulties at the Gujjapura site; (c) indifferent
performance of selected consultants; (d) procurement difficulties; and (e)
weak institutional capacity of the Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL).
Results
4.        Despite these difficulties, the project was largely successful in
meeting its principal objective to strengthen the capacity of local
institutions to prepare and implement integrated urban development programs to
arrest the decay in urban living conditions, to improve municipal services and
to develop strategies to deliver services and shelter to the urban poor. The
physical achievements of the project are very much in line with the appraisal
estimates. The Economic Rate of Return for the project (excluding the solid
waste and studies components) is calculated as about 11%-.
5.        The Walled City rehabilitation component was completed within the
original cost estimate and provides improved shelter and infrastructure
benefits to some 70,000 residents. The Gujjapura component facilities were
completed in December 1992. LDA anticipates that the allocation of plots to
potential beneficiaries will be completed around 1998.
6.        The housing loan component was not successful (utilization was only
15% of the appraisal estimate, and no reimbursement was claimed.) This



- iii -
component, implemented through the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC),
proved difficult due to: the need to alter HBFC's by-laws to permit lending
for house rehabilitation in the Walled City; the lack of interest by potential
beneficiaries; and the late completion of the Gujjapura sites and services
scheme, which precluded any lending for house construction.
7.        After a slow start, implementation of the solid waste management
component improved substantially with the vehicle fleet and workshop becoming
fully operational by the end of the project. Management weaknesses at MCL and
physical problems persisted throughout the project, and support from the
corporation's political leadership was variable due to changing priorities of
the various Mayors elected to office during the project's life. These
deficiencies are to be addressed in future IDA-assisted interventions.
8.        Deficiencies in the performance of design consultancy services for
the Gujjapura and solid waste management components were addressed by LDA and
by IDA mission interventions. The solid waste management component was
finalized through inclusion of technical experts in the IDA missions. This
strategy, while solving the immediate problem, did not contribute
significantly to the longer term strengthening of MCL.
Sustainabilitv
9.        The sustainability of the project depends largely on the successful
operation and maintenance of the upgraded facilities provided. Site
inspection in the upgraded areas of the Walled City and of the MCL's solid
waste collection fleet indicated that these components are maintained
satisfactorily. The sustainability of the Gujjapura infrastructure can only
be assessed in the future after the housing development is complete and the
site is occupied. The sustainability of Government-sponsored sites and
services schemes as a means of low-income housing development has not been
demonstrated, with difficulties of land acquisition, implementation, and plot
sales causing extensive delays before construction of housing by target groups
could commence.
10.       With regard to the institutional strengthening of the various
agencies, HBFC benefitted from the project interventions despite the housing
loan component proving unsuccessful. The financial systems installed in
Lahore with Project-financed assistance have been replicated by HBFC in other
regional offices. LDA has 'learned by doing' during the project and the
increased management skills have been demonstrated through persistent efforts
to complete LUDP and in the ongoing second project (Punjab Urban Development
Project, Credit 1895-PAK). The inherent management weakness of MCL, although
ameliorated by project interventions, persisted through project completion.
Lessons Learned
11.       The following lessons may be learned from the LUDP experience:
(a) the time originally allowed for implementation proved grossly under
estimated, bearing in mind the social difficulties of
implementation, the local agencies' inexperience of IDA projects,
and that this was the first IDA urban lending operation in
Pakistan;



- iv -
(b) the difficult problems associated with land acquisition for the
Gujjapura component, and, to a lesser extent, for the solid waste
management component, were not fully appreciated at appraisal;
(c) there is a need for a strategy for land acquisition as this caused
major delays. An option would be to defer appraisal until
executing agencies have "authority to enter" or "possession" which
cannot be challenged in the courts, and until compensation has been
paid over to the landowners by the government "Collector";
(d) urban projects involving multi-agency execution should include a
mechanism for integrated project monitoring, coordination and
evaluation, perhaps located in the Government Planning and
Development Board ;
(e) the delays with Gujjapura contrasted sharply with the timely
benefits, in terms of improved shelter and basic services, provided
under the Walled City upgrading. Future projects should
concentrate on area upgrading rather than on sites and services;
and
(f) the consolidation of contracts for basic services civil works into
integrated area-based packages principally in order to encourage
ICB should be reviewed in the context of locally available
contractor expertise.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identitv
Name                      Lahore Urban Development Project
Credit Number             1348-PAK
RVP Unit            :     South Asia Regional Office,
Country Department III
Country             :     Pakistan
Sector              :     Infrastructure
Sub-sector          :     Urban Development
B.   Background
1.        Context.  At the time of project preparation (1974-1980), Lahore
faced a substantial and growing shortage of housing and infrastructure
services, particularly for the lower income groups. Some 25-30% of the
population lived in slum areas with limited access to infrastructure and
utility services. A further 25-30% (260,000 people) lived in the Walled City
in conditions of severe overcrowding, decaying housing and inadequate urban
services.
2.        Studies at that time indicated that high urban land prices,
ineffective planning, inadequate supply of serviced land, and lack of access
to established financial markets combined to deny the low-income population
access to urban services and housing at affordable prices. A Katchi Abadil'
upgrading program was launched in 1977 by the Lahore Development Authority
(LDA) which had benefitted about 250,000 people in 30 settlements by 1981.
Although the program provided security of tenure, it was not particularly
successful due to poor maintenance and apparent lack of community
participation. Furthermore, the existing public sector housing land
development program by LDA proved inadequate to cope with increasing growth in
demand (providing about 15,000 serviced plots/year compared with an estimated
demand of some 25,000).
3.        Most formal land development in Lahore has been undertaken by LDA
which acts as a planning and development agency. Roads and drainage are
provided jointly by LDA and the Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL);
water supply by the Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA); electricity, and
street lighting on behalf of MCL, by the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) and gas distribution by SUI Gas Company. Solid waste management, and
operation and maintenance of various urban services, are the responsibility of
MCL. House building is done through the private sector, typically by
individuals using small local contractors.
1/    A Katchi Abadi is a squatter development on Government-owned land.



-2
4.         IDA's Role in the Sector.  While earlier IDA lending in Pakistan
contributed to urban growth, efforts to prepare an urban development project
proved difficult. The first proposal, prepared during 1974-75 for the Lyari
district in Karachi was appraised but not negotiated, and was eventually
abandoned for reasons related to cost recovery.
5.        Earlier IDA involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector was
limited to two projects in Lahore. The Lahore WASA was created and equipped
under the first project in 1967 (Credit 106-PAK), and a second credit of
US$26.6 million (Credit 630-PAK) was approved in 1976. Consultants financed
under Credit 630-PAK (see Table 1) were appointed in 1978 to assist LDA in
carrying out urban planning and transportation studies to provide the basis
for the Lahore Urban Development Project, Credit 1348-PAK (LUDP), the first
urban development project to be implemented in Pakistan.
6.        Sector Policy Obiectives.  Policies to deal with the urban
development problems facing Lahore were initiated as a result of the planning
studies. These included: expansion of the Katchi Abadi program to cover all
remaining Katchi Abadis; low-cost traffic management schemes; an action
program for improved land use and investment strategy in North Lahore;
upgrading of high density areas in the city center; and increased supply of
serviced plots, particularly for low-income groups and small businesses.
Strengthening the management and resource mobilization capacity of the
institutions responsible for urban services were key elements of the policy
initiatives.
7.        The LUDP was designed to assist in implementing and further
developing these policy initiatives.
C.   Project Obiectives and Description
8.        Objectives.  The basic objectives of the project were to: (a)
strengthen the capacity of local institutions to prepare and implement
integrated urban development programs to arrest the decay in urban living
conditions; (b) improve municipal services and develop strategies to cope with
continuing urban growth; and (c) address the delivery of services and shelter
to the urban poor. To achieve these objectives the project included
integrated physical demonstration schemes, and training and technical
assistance to strengthen the responsible institutions.
9.        Project Description.  The project included the following
components:
(a)  Walled City Upgrading.  Infrastructure upgrading covering an area
of about 45 hectares (ha) being about one third of the densely
populated (1,100 persons/ha) Walled City, to benefit around 70,000
inhabitants, mostly in low-income groups. The upgrading included
the provision of sewerage, improvements of water supply, lighting,
street paving, drainage and solid waste, rehabilitation of schools
and provision of community facilities;
(b)  Gujiapura Sites and Services. Development of fully integrated
infrastructure facilities in an area of about 225 ha to provide
about 10,000 fully serviced residential plots, of which about 4,000
were for low-income beneficiaries, and some 600 commercial and



-3-
industrial units, with sites for education, health, religious,
cultural and recreation facilities;
(c) House Construction Loan Facility. Provision of investments for
house reconstruction in the Walled City and new development at the
Gujjapura site;
(d) Solid Waste Collection, Municipal Management and Maintenance.
City-wide improvements in collection, transport and disposal of
solid waste through provision of vehicles and equipment, municipal
workshops, transfer stations, and selection of landfill sites; and
(e) Studies. Technical assistance and training related to the physical
components of the project. In addition, the project included
assistance for the preparation of a future urban development
investment program (Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP), Credit
1895-PAK).
D.   Prolect Design and Organization
10.       The project was designed as an integrated program to bring about
policy changes and to improve the effectiveness of the main sector
institutions in the Lahore Metropolitan Area. Institution building was a key
objective to be achieved through technical assistance and training, and
through the experience gained by project implementation.
11.       An organization, management and finance study was planned for LDA,
the principal implementing agency, to strengthen its capacity to plan, finance
and implement similar schemes in future. The upgrading in the Walled City was
designed to improve the living conditions of about 30% of the urban low-income
group in Lahore, and to provide a model for wider replication. The sites and
services scheme at Gujjapura was designed to provide affordable fully serviced
shelter for about 10 of the total need through the project period (1983-87),
and to provide a model for replication. The solid waste component was
designed to improve the environment city-wide, particularly in low-income
areas which would not otherwise be served.
12.       LDA was responsible for the Walled City Upgrading and Gujjapura
Sites and Services components. The solid waste component was executed by the
Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL). The house building loan facility
was channelled through the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC). This
institution was also the financial intermediary for loan funds to LDA for
infrastructure development at Gujjapura.
13.       The project was appraised in early 1981.  The appraisal report was
updated in late 1982 to curtail the project scope because of IDA allocation
restrictions. The total project cost was US$24 million with an IDA credit of
US$16 million (SDR 14.8 million) to finance foreign exchange and a portion of
local expenditures (representing 67% of total project costs excluding taxes
and duties, in accordance with IDA-Government norms at that time.)
E.   Prolect Implementation
14.       Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up.  The Credit was approved
on April 19, 1983, signed on May 24, 1983 and declared effective on January



-4-
23, 1984 (see Table 2). This delay in effectiveness was due to the default of
Lahore WASA in meeting the cost recovery covenant under Credit 630-PAK.
15.       Implementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled to
be completed by June 30, 1988, but only the Walled City component was
completed within this schedule (see Table 4). The project was extended four
times, for a total of 4.5 years, and closed finally on December 31, 1992.  The
main reasons for the delayed completion were:
(a) the initial very optimistic estimate of the time required for
implementation;
(b) relative lack of experience by LDA in managing IDA-assisted
programs;
(c) selection of inappropriate consultants for detailed preparation of
the Gujjapura and solid waste components;
(d) the serious difficulty of acquiring the Gujjapura site, exacerbated
by changes in legislation during the acquisition process
culminating in court proceedings and life-threatening civil
disturbances which prevented the civil works contractors from
gaining unrestricted access to the work sites;
(e) slow progress on vital construction contracts resulting in
termination of contracts and the need for LDA to complete the works
using other contractors;
(f) preparation of designs for electrical work being unacceptable to
WAPDA, caused by consultant inefficiency;
(g) weak institutional capacity of the MCL and the low priority
afforded by it to solid waste management;
(h) frequent management staff changes in the solid waste sector at MCL;
(i) lack of interest by beneficiaries in the Walled City in HBFC loans;
(j) changes required to the HBFC bylaws to allow it to lend for
rehabilitation in the Walled City; and
(k) late completion of the Gujjapura site's infrastructure which
prevented disbursement of any HBFC construction investment loans at
Gujjapura.
16.       Procurement.  Delays were experienced on the Gujjapura component
due to the following:
(a) the infrastructure contracts for construction of basic services
were not attractive to competent international contractors. In
retrospect, the use of ICB for the type of infrastructure civil
works included in the project proved inappropriate;
(b) the packaging under ICB procedures of the infrastructure works on
an area basis resulted in two large contracts, both awarded to a



-5-
single firm. The selected contractor proved unsatisfactory and
after long delays (exacerbated by civil disturbances over land
acquisition), these contracts were terminated. The work was
completed by reverting to LCB sector specific contracts which were
handled satisfactorily by local contractors; and
(c) unsatisfactory procurement of two vital consultancy assignments for
detailed design of the Gujjapura and the solid waste management
components due to the selection of a non-performing firm.
17.       In general, procurement followed World Bank guidelines, albeit with
some delays especially in selection of consultancy services.
18.       Project Costs.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
about US$24 million. The final cost was about US$21.4 million (at the
exchange rate of US $1 = Rs.25 at December, 1992), as shown on Table 5A in
Part III. In rupee terms, referring to Table 5A, the total project cost
increased from Rs.312 million to Rs.536 million (72%). This increase is
explained by substantially higher costs for solid waste management equipment
(Rs.177 million compared with Rs.60 million estimated at appraisal), and the
substantial technical assistance costs (Rs.67 million) for future project
preparation and studies which were not identified at appraisal. The increased
cost of the Gujjapura sites and services component (Rs.244 million compared
with Rs.191 million at appraisal) is attributable to higher material costs.
19.       Disbursements.  The estimated and actual disbursements of the
Credit are given in Table 3 in Part III. The disbursements were delayed due
to: (a) delay in implementation; and (b) devaluation of the rupee against the
SDR by about 250% since project appraisal (SDR 1 = Rs.14.05 at appraisal
compared with Rs. 35.5 when the Credit closed in December 1992), which
resulted in less SDR being required, and hence disbursed, to reimburse rupee
expenditure. An outstanding balance of SDR 2.83 million (19% of the Credit
amount) was cancelled.
20.       Credit Allocations.  The original and revised allocations and
actual disbursements of the Credit are shown in Table 5B of Part III. The
original allocations were revised in mid-1992 to reflect changes resulting
from: (a) slow disbursement of the building investment loan component due to
HBFC lending procedures, unsatisfactory audit statements, and delayed
completion of the Gujjapura component; (b) higher costs than anticipated at
appraisal of solid waste equipment; and (c) additional consultancy services,
studies and training which were identified during the implementation of the
project.
F.   Prolect Results
21.       Project Obiectives.  Overall, the project was largely successful in
meeting its principal objective to strengthen the capacity of local
institutions to prepare and implement integrated urban development programs to
arrest the decay in urban living conditions. The upgrading of infrastructure
in low-income areas of Lahore Walled City was particularly successful, being
completed satisfactorily within the original cost and time-frame, and
contributing to improved living conditions of the 70,000 beneficiaries in the
area. LDA, as an institution, was strengthened in its capacity to implement
future projects.



-6-
22.       The Gujjapura sites and services component suffered serious delays,
but the infrastructure was completed by the final credit closing date
(December 31, 1992). However, LDA anticipates that the allotment of plots to
beneficiaries will only be completed after a further five years or so. Thus
the effective completion of delivery of plots will not be achieved for some 14
years after the beginning of the project. House construction may take a
further 5-10 years. Thus, the Gujjapura component does not compare favorably
with the Walled City upgrading in terms of providing improved shelter and
living conditions within a reasonable time frame, and does not provide a model
for replication.
23.       Physical Performance.  Apart from the poor performance of the HBFC
housing investment component, the physical targets were achieved substantially
as planned at appraisal, although some components were seriously delayed.
24.       The estimated and the actual physical performance are compared in
Table 4 in Part III. In retrospect the implementation schedule agreed at
appraisal was over ambitious bearing in mind: (a) that LTUDP was the first IDA
urban lending operation in Pakistan; and (b) that the executing agencies were
not accustomed to IDA procedures.
25.       The housing loan component was singularly unsuccessful, only 15% of
the appraisal estimate being utilized (but not reimbursed). This was due
primarily to HBFC's lending conditions which required: proof of ownership;
approved building plans; an unencumbered mortgage certificate; proof of
income; and disbursement of the loan proceeds in arrears of expenditure by the
mortgagor. This final requirement meant in effect that low-income borrowers
need funds from another source to finance building costs. In the case of the
Walled City, the HBFC bylaws had to be changed to allow lending for
rehabilitation (as opposed to new construction). At Gujjapura, the late
completion of infrastructure and delayed plot allotment precluded any house
lending under the project.
26.       After a very slow start, towards the end of the project, the solid
waste vehicle fleet, workshops and one transfer station became operational.
Physical problems, notably waste transfer and disposal, and weak management at
MCL, persist.
27.       Financial Performance.  The financial viability of the project was
based on cost recovery through: charges for water and sewage services and
property tax increases in the Walled City; housing investment repayments; sale
of serviced plots and development charges at Gujjapura; and municipal taxes in
the case of the solid waste management component. Water service charges have
been increased regularly and a sewerage charge has been introduced by WASA,
which now recovers the cost of operation and maintenance from revenues with
some contribution towards debt service. Annual rental values (ARVs) have been
revised at 5-year intervals, thus contributing to the cost recovery of street
upgrading and solid waste management. At Gujjapura, about 30t of the plots
(3,300) were allocated by December 1992. LDA anticipates that the remaining
plots would be allotted during the next five years. Clearly the investment
costs of this development will not be completely recovered for some years.
28.       HBFC's financial statements were heavily qualified by its auditors
due to accounting weaknesses, and remained in default of the covenants
throughout the project. This problem was addressed through technical



-7
assistance to HBFC, and had been largely resolved by the closing date.
29.       Impact of the Project.  The impact of the project was generally
positive, albeit, the project completion was delayed by over 4 years and the
benefits from the Gujjapura component will not be fully achieved for some
years into the future. The actual physical benefits, shown in Table 6A, Part
III, were substantially in line with appraisal estimates. In terms of
institutional strengthening, the project has improved the capability of LDA to
plan and execute sites and services and upgrading projects. HBFC has
benefitted through the introduction of computer based systems for monitoring
its loan collection process at Lahore, Islamabad and Karachi Zonal offices,
through portfolio audit and training in financial reconciliation. MCL's solid
waste management organizational structure has been improved to some extent,
but further strengthening and organizational changes are still necessary.
30.       Rate of Return Comparisons.  At appraisal, economic rates of return
(ERR) for the Gujjapura and Walled City components of the project were
calculated as 159 and 27.2% respectively, based on financial development costs
excluding taxes and price contingencies. These two components represented
some 80% of the total project cost at that time. The economic benefits from
the remaining components (mainly solid waste management) were not calculated
at appraisal due to the stated difficulty in quantifying the benefits.
31.       The ERR calculation for the Walled City component was predicated on
increased rental values for upgraded properties. While ARVs annual have been
revised regularly every 5 years, due to certain anomalies in assessment these
did not provide meaningful information to update the ERR calculation. Actual
expenditures were in line with the appraisal estimate and the work was
completed substantially within the original time frame. The results of a data
survey of rental increases after the completion of the upgrading component
indicates property rental increases around Rs.200/month, of which about
Rs.150/month was attributed to benefits arising from the improved
infrastructure facilities. Therefore, based on this data, the actual ERR for
this component is estimated around 15% depending on the quantification of
benefits (see Table 6B).
32.       The appraisal calculation for the Gujjapura site assumed that
benefits from development charges and plot sales would be realized by 1987.
The infrastructure works were completed only in late 1992 at a cost of Rs. 243
million, some 27% above the appraisal estimate. At that time, only 30% of the
plots were allocated, and most of the house construction was yet to start.
Thus, the benefits of this component in terms of available shelter may only be
fully realized after a further 5-10 years. Based on the appraisal assumptions
and estimated income from plot sales and development charges, the final ERR is
estimated around 4%, compared with the figure of 15% estimated at appraisal
(see Table 6B). This difference is attributed to: the increase in capital
costs; the extended implementation period; delays in plot allocation and
sales; and anticipated delays in construction of houses.
33.       Combined, the ERR for these components is 11%, compared with an
estimate of 20% at appraisal.



-8-
G.   Prolect Sustainability
34.       The sustainability of the project infrastructure depends largely on
the successful operation and maintenance of the upgraded facilities provided.
Site inspection in the upgraded areas of the Walled City and of the MCL's
solid waste collection fleet indicate that these components are maintained
satisfactorily. The sustainability of the Gujjapura infrastructure can only
be assessed in the future after the housing development is complete and the
site is occupied. The sustainability of Government-sponsored sites and
services schemes as a means of low-income housing development has not been
demonstrated, with difficulties of land acquisition, implementation and plot
sales causing extensive delays in the construction of housing by target
groups.
35.       With regard to the institutional strengthening of the various
agencies, HBFC benefitted from the project interventions despite the housing
loan component proving unsuccessful. The financial systems installed in
Lahore with Project-financed assistance have been replicated by HBFC in other
regional offices. LDA has 'learned by doing' during the project and the
increased management skills have been demonstrated through persistent efforts
to complete LUDP and in the ongoing second project (Punjab Urban Development
Project, Credit 1895-PAK). The inherent management weakness of MCL, although
ameliorated by project interventions, persisted through project completion.
H.   IDA's Performance
36.       Throughout the project, IDA made a positive contribution to the
project's physical and institutional outcome. Persistent interventions by IDA
staff and interaction with the concerned staff of the executing agencies
enabled this difficult project to achieve a positive outcome (See Tables 8A
and 8B). Close interaction was necessary in view of the inexperience of
agency personnel with IDA funded projects; and in the case of Gujjapura and
solid waste components, the poor performance of the selected consultants.
This interaction developed into a close "team work" approach in terms of IDA
and executing agency relationships. This approach has benefitted the Punjab
Urban Development Project (Credit 1895-PAK) which is ongoing.
37.       However, a number of lessons may be learned from the experience on
the project. These are:
(a) the estimate of the time required for implementation was overly
optimistic, bearing in mind the social difficulties of
implementation, the executing agencies' inexperience of IDA
projects, and the fact this was the first urban lending in
Pakistan;
(b) the problems associated with land acquisition for the Gujjapura
component and to a lesser extent for the solid waste management
component, were not fully appreciated at appraisal;
(c) there is a need for a strategy for land acquisition as this
difficulty caused major delays. It may be that appraisals should
be delayed until executing agencies have authority to enter or
possession which cannot be challenged in the courts, and the
compensation has been paid over to the landowners by the government



-9-
Collector for a substantial proportion of the required land;
(d) similar projects involving multi-agency execution should include
provision for a Project Management Unit, perhaps located in the
Government Planning and Development Department, for integrated
project monitoring, coordination and evaluation;
(e) the delays with Gujjapura contrasted sharply with the timely
benefits, in terms of improved shelter and basic services, provided
under the Walled City upgrading. Future projects should
concentrate on area upgrading rather than on sites and services;
and
(f) Use of ICB for basic services civil works contracts should be
carefully reviewed in the context of locally available contractor
expertise.
I.   Borrower Performance
38.       Table 7 in Part III contains the review of performance of the
Borrower in response to the covenanted actions in the credit and project
agreement documents. All three executing agencies, LDA, MCL and HBFC
experienced difficulty in submitting audit reports on time. By the end of the
project, LDA was in compliance, and HBFC although in default through project
completion, eventually provided a satisfactory audit report, its difficulties
in this regard being addressed through technical assistance for portfolio
audit and training in financial reconciliation.
39.       The progress reporting requirements for the project appear to have
been totally disregarded by MCL and HBFC. LDA was unable to meet its
obligations to HBFC for Gujjapura owing to late completion of this component.
40.       After a slow start up, the Borrower's performance was generally
satisfactory. LDA demonstrated persistent determination, and eventually
overcame the very difficult and serious problems encountered over land
acquisition on the Gujjapura site. Both LDA and MCL overcame the indifferent
performance of selected design consultants so that physical results were
achieved in line with the appraisal estimates. Solid waste collection in
Lahore noticeably improved and the whole fleet of waste collection vehicles
was in full operation at the completion of the project. Institutional
weaknesses in MCL still remain, but some headway was made under the project.
41.       LDA has demonstrated improved capacity to design and execute urban
renewal projects. The institutional capacity of HBFC has been strengthened,
although the house investment component of the project was not successful and
funds were subsequently reallocated. Project implementation would have
benefitted from improved project monitoring, coordination and evaluation,
perhaps through strengthening the Planning and Development (P&D) Department.
The concept of a Project Management Unit was introduced in PUDP, although the
unit was not located in P&D, with consequent loss of effectiveness.
J.   Proiect Relationship
42.       IDA's relationship with GOP/GoPunjab and the executing agencies
remained good throughout the project. Mission interventions were well



- 10 -
received and cordial working relationships established.
K.   Consultancy Services
43.       with the exception of consultants engaged for Gujjapura design and
the solid waste management study, the performance of consultants under the
project seemed satisfactory (See Table 6D). In the case of Gujjapura, the
deficiencies were addressed by LDA personnel and IDA mission interventions,
thus improving the LDA design capability through learning by doing. The solid
waste management component was ultimately finalized by the inclusion of solid
waste specialists within IDA missions. This strategy, while solving the
immediate problem, did not contribute to the longer-term institutional
strengthening of MCL.
44.       In retrospect, the selection of non-performing consultants could
have been avoided through more rigorous pre-qualification criteria and
analysis of applications when the short lists of firms were prepared.
L.   Project Documentation and Data
45.       IDA missions were afforded ready access to the available data in
the field. However, the quality of this information varied widely between
agencies. Establishment of a focal point for in-country project management
would have enabled all the data to be properly coordinated and could have
ensured that the project was monitored on a continuous basis. As it was, the
project expenditures by MCL were not available in satisfactory format even
when the project closed. Similarly, it was difficult to access information
from HBFC. Lack of reporting by these two agencies added to the difficulties
in accessing information on a regular basis.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Introduction
1.        Borrower's comments are provided for Part II of the PCR separately
for the following components:
(a) Walled City Upgrading - Phase 1;
(b) Gujjapura Sites and Services Scheme; and
(c) Solid Waste Management.
2.        The following general comments relate to the Walled City Upgrading-
Phase 1 and the Gujjapura Site and Services Scheme components:
(a)  Adequacy and Accuracy of Information in Part III.  (Incorporated.)
(b) Comment on the Analysis in Part I. No comments.
(c) Evaluation of IDA's Performance. The World Bank performance
remained excellent during the evaluation and implementation of the
project.
(d) Evaluation of Borrower's Performance. See following Sections.
(e) Effectiveness of IDA/Borrower Relationship. Effectiveness of the
relationship between the World Bank and the borrower remained quite
satisfactory.
B.   Walled City Upgrading Phase I Component
3.        The project includes the upgradation of about 1/3 area of the
Walled City as Phase I (45 hectares) to provide benefits to 70,000-80,000
people.  The main objectives were to:
(a) provide sewerage system;
(b) improve water supply system;
(c) provide brick pavement;
(d) improve street light;
(e) improve the solid waste collection services.
4.        This component of LUDP has been implemented.  An amount of Rs.41.63
million has been spent on civil works against an originally estimated amount
of Rs.31 million. Anyhow, the amount thus spent has been regularized and the
revised PC-1 has been approved.
5.        In the original PC-1, an amount of Rs.20 million was reserved for
provision of loans for house construction in the Walled City. This amount was
to be utilized through HBFC. They have spent Rs.7.71 millions.



- 12 -
6.        Details of the total estimated cost and actual expenditures are
given as under:
-----------Rupees in Millions-------
Estimated        Actual Cost
Cost
(a)  Improvement of solid waste collection services.  2              0.05
(b)  Upgrading through provision of sewerage, Leak
detection and replacement of water supply
improvement of street lighting and upgrading of
school buiLdings and provision of community
centers.                                      31                41.58
(c)  Investment houses reconstruction/repair in the
project area.                                 20                7.71
(d)  Preparation of a conservation plan for preservation
of historic buildings.                        2                 1.78
(e)  Design and supervision, community development,
monitoring and evaluation, training and technical
assistance.                                   5
Total                          60                51.12
7.        The upgrading works were executed departmentally through force
account and the work was completed during 1987. The project is handed over to
the WASA and MCL, Lahore for operation and maintenance.
Lessons
8.        Larger diameter sewer pipes could not be laid due to narrow gallis
(lanes) and existing old buildings with inadequate foundations. As such, the
drainage/sewerage network was not very effective. The sewer, being of smaller
diameter, gets surcharged during rains and blockage occurs due to the throwing
of polytene shopping bags in the manholes/pipes. That is why, in the PUDP
component of Walled City, pre-cast drains have been provided, with less deep
foundations. Furthermore, in the PUDP system we have provided liftable covers
to clean the drains and get rid of the blockages.
9.        Water supply lines have also been laid at shallow depth to
safeguard the old building structures. As such, water supply ferrules usually
leak due to traffic impact on the street pavement, causing inconvenience to
residents and danger for the existing old houses. That is why in the PUDP
component of Walled City upgrading, galvanized iron pipes have been provided
on the street surface to have quick repair and attending to the visible
leakage quickly.
10.       In the LUDP component of Walled City, the HBFC could not fully
utilize the amount allocated for the people as there was an expenditure of
Rs.8 millions against Rs.20 millions. This was due to the fact that the
people did not have complete proprietorship and there was a lengthy procedure
for obtaining an HBFC loan. A number of meetings were therefore held with the
HBFC to streamline procedures whereby the dwellers of Walled City could
benefit from the loan facility. This loan facility was, therefore, not
included in the PUDP component of Walled City. It is proposed that the loan
should be for house repair and not for the house construction/reconstruction
as is a normal procedure of the HBFC. Furthermore, a possibility should be
looked into whereby the loan should be disbursed by the HBFC in association
with public representatives and LDA.



-13 -
11.       In the LUDP component of the Walled City, down pipes were not
provided. Consequently, the people either did not provide the down-pipes or
provided down-pipes of inadequate sizes and shapes. Thereby, the sewage and
the storm water was dropped onto the street thus causing problem for the
residents. Therefore, in the PUDP component of Walled City, down-pipes with
specials of adequate size and shape have been provided to get rid of the
problem.
12.       In the LUDP component of Walled City, insufficient prior survey
documentation was made and photography for the houses having cracks was too
little. Therefore, in the PUDP component of Walled City, the needful has been
done adequately and signatures of the house owners/occupants on house
inventories have been taken to eliminate the possibility of unnecessarily
blaming LDA regarding house cracking.
13.       In the LUDP component of Walled City, there was less departmental
contact with the people and public representatives, contrary to what has been
practiced in the PUDP component of Walled City, thus much more satisfaction in
favor of the LDA has been attained in the latter project.
C.   Guljapura Sites and Services Scheme
14.       This part of LUTP is a housing scheme spread over an area of 224
hectares, planned to provide residential accommodation to about 10,000
families. The total cost of the project was Rs.189 million which included
Rs.35 million for house building loans through HBFC. The project cost
increased to Rs.244 million due to delay in completion. The work has been
completed at site on December 31, 1992. Facilities provided under this
project are as under:
(a)  Water supply         68.8 km in length
(b)  Sewerage system      60.9 km
(c)  Drainage system      19.3 km
(d)  Metalled roads       35.3 km
(e)  Brick paved streets 36.7 km
(f)  Electricity          224 hectares
15.       Cost of the project increased from Rs.189 million to Rs.244 million
due to status quo obtained by the local land lords from different courts at
different times. Delay in completion and increase in price has been
incorporated in the revised PC-1 which has been approved by the Provincial
Development Working Party (PDWP).
16.       In the original PC-1 provision of Rs.35 million was made for HBFC
for house building loans for low income beneficiaries, which could not be
utilized.



- 14 -
17.        The detail of cost estimates and actual expenditures are as
follows:
--------------Rupees in Millions----------------
Original                  Revised
PC-1                      PC-1
(a)  Acquisition of land (224
hectares).                                8                       14.30
(b)  Infrastructures, civil works.            133                     208.28
(c)  House Building Investment for
low income beneficiaries.                35                        -
(d)  (i)  Design and Supervision                9                      15.00
(ii)  Community Development
Monitoring and
Evaluation Training and
Technical Assistance.                4                       6.00
Total                           189                     243.58
Say Rs. 244 millions
18.        The works were carried out through prequalified contractors of the
World Bank.
Lessons
19.        The HBFC loan incorporated in PC-1 for house construction could not
be availed by the individuals for the reason that all the services were to be
provided in running condition only after the completion of the scheme.
Thereafter the individuals abstained from construction of their houses, during
the development of scheme. This reflects that period of HBFC loan to the
individuals for the construction of their houses should be started after the
completion of the scheme.
20.        Large herds of buffaloes hindered the progress of the scheme to a
great extent. Hence, there arises the need of the promulgation of such rules
and regulations which can prevent the animals from entering into any under-
execution public residential scheme.
21.        The preference for construction of T.S.T. roads in place of brick
paved streets would have played vital role towards the need of the people
according to their demand/requirement of modernization as was experienced
during construction period in different meetings with local people.
22.        All the stay orders, encroachments and any such obstacles should be
cleared before utilizing the World Bank Loan. This could enable the scheme to
proceed smoothly and in-time completion of scheme could be ensured.
23.        The drainage system of the scheme was designed by the consultants
relative to the bed of Chotta Ravi drain which has since been silted up to a
large extent with the passage of time, thus making it difficult to accommodate
the drainage of the scheme. Provision in PC-1 should have either been made
for its independent disposal or the rehabilitation of Chotta Ravi drain should
have been made to cater for the flow of the Scheme.



- 15 -
D.   Solid Waste Management
24.       Project was conceived in 1980 as a World Bank Project under LUDP
Cr. 1348-Pak. The study was carried out by M/s. Indus Associates & the
agreement was signed with the World Bank in 1983.
25.       The Project was delayed due to different reasons as narrated in
Para 15, and completed according to the information provided in the Tables 2 &
4 of the Project timetable in the Project Completion Report.
26.       The Project financing provision in the agreement for MCL Credit
was:
Local Share       =   Rs. 30 million
I.D.A. Portion   =   Rs. 31 million
Total             =   Rs. 61 million
27.       The Project costs in the appraisal are as given in Table 5A.
28.       These funds were spent for purchase of equipment and machinery,
storage skips, containers and different type of refuse collection vehicles,
establishment of a modern work-shop, provision of transfer stations, land-fill
site, training and consultancy.
29.       Details of some of them are provided in Table 6A, Project Results -
Direct Benefits, and Table 6D, Project Results - Studies.
30.       Regarding column 3 of Table 6A, Project Results - Direct Benefits,
Solid Waste Management has the following equipment/vehicles & other facilities
in operation:
Vehicles for Supervisory Staff            15
Hand Carts                         :   2976
Modify Vehicles Workshop           :       1
Transfer Station                   :       1
Compactor Trucks                   :      34
Skips                              :     971
Arm-roll Vehicles                  :      23
Containers                         :    200
Garbage Trolley                    :    1200
Tractors                           :       4
Bulldozer                          :       2
31.       In Table 6D, Project Results - Studies, under column "C" regarding
the impacts of Solid Waste Management study in Head-I, it is provided that
consultants were appointed with the approval of World Bank and they have done
the job satisfactorily. Whereas we are agreed with all other heads of the
column.
32.       Regarding Table 7, Status of Covenants, it is correct that
quarterly progress reports were not submitted due to different reasons,
however audit reports are being prepared which will be submitted to the
Mission soon.



- 16 -
33.       Benefits & achievements  Overall, the project was largely
successful in meeting its principal objectives, the collection of Solid Waste
is considerably improved under more hygienic conditions. MCL is efficiently
running the project and claims the best utilization of funds provided by the
World Bank to improve the Sanitation Conditions.
-    Lifting/Dumping of waste capacity has increased from 1300 metric
tonnes (MT) to 2100 MT against total generation of 2600 MT/waste
per day.
-    MCL has made available a Land-fill Site at Mehmood Booti which will
meet MCL ten years' requirements of dumping for the Solid Waste.
-    (MCL plans) to install Gas Extraction Plant for the generation of
energy from the Solid Waste.
-    MCL has a fleet of imported collection vehicles (Compactor Trucks,
Arm Rollers etc.) for immediate and regular lifting, dumping of the
Solid Waste.
-    MCL has established with the assistance of the World Bank Mission,
Auto Workshop equipped with the latest machinery which help high
saving in the maintenance cost.
34.       Limitations
-    Yet we are not in a position to collect all the waste generated in
Lahore, i.e. about 500 MT/day is yet to collect.
-    No standard containers specially made for handling the Solid Waste
of individual (household) units are provided.
-    Height of the Containers is high therefore causes problem for
children, ladies and persons of smaller heights.
-    Small Containers in more Nos. are moved better.
-    Skips, Containers provided are not covered.
-    Skips, Containers provided have no places in the master plan of the
City (and) they are placed at road sides causing traffic problem.
-    Collection in narrow streets is being done by bullock carts giving
very poor performance, (and) therefore mechanical vehicles must be
provided.
-    There is only one Transfer Station which is not sufficient and
which is not working because of some technical problem present
there.
-    There is no unit for the recovery of the re-cycleable items in the
Solid Waste.
-    Highly trained and qualified Officers/staff were not available with
MCL at the time to run the project successfully and efficiently.
-    Necessary awareness towards sanitation conditions is not
established among the people.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 1348-PAK)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
ISR.|LOAN/CREDIT                                PURPOSE            YEAR OF             STATUS       j      COMMENTS
INO.|TITLE                                                        APPROVAL                          I
I   |Cr. 630-PAK.  The Second Lahore    |Water Supply,       |      1976        |     Complete      ITA component used forl
I   lWater Supply, Sewerage and DrainagelSewerage and        I                  I                   |preparation of
I   |Project                              |Drainage          I                  I                   ICr. 1348-PAK
I   I                                     lImprovements      I                  I                   I
TABLE 2.   PROJECT TIMETABLE
|SR.|ITEM                                 I      DATE        I      DATE                DATE
|NO.1                                     I    PLANNED       I    REVISED              ACTUAL
1 lIdentification (Initiating           I                  IJUlY 1980
I   |Project Brief)                                                             I                   I
| 2 |Preparation                                                                11974 through 1981
I 3 lAppraisal Mission                                                          IFebruary 1981      1
I  I                                                                            |  (updated Nov.82) I
I 4 ICredit Negotiations                  |January 1982      |March 1982        |February 1983
I 5 |Board Approval                       |April 19, 1983   1      -April 19, 1983    1
| 6 |Credit Signature                     IMay 24, 1983      1                  IMay 24, 1983       1
| 7 |Credit Effectiveness                 |August 24, 1983  |October 24, 1983 |January 23, 1984  |
8 ICredit Closing                       IJune 20, 1988    IDecember 31, 1992lDecember 31, 1992 |
I 9 |Credit completion                    |December 31, 19881      -            |April 30, 1993
Comments:   Delayed effectiveness due to time needed to resolve default of financial covenant by Lahore WASA.
TABLE 3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS - CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (SDR '000)
IDA                 I                                     I           ACTUAL
|          FINANCIAL YEAR                     APPRAISAL |                              AS I OF
(FY)                 |        ESTIMATE j           ACTUAL            ESTIMATE
FY84                 |           1,388                Nil |                   1
FY85                 I           4,995                 760 I                15%1
FY86                             9,805               1334 I                 14%1
FY87                            13,320                2314                  17%1
FY88                            14,800                3765 |                25%1
|               FY89                  I                  I            4808 |                321I
|               FY90                  I                  I            6333 |                43%1
|               FY91                                                  7589 |                51%1
FY92                 I                  I           10186 I                 69%1
FY93                                                 11968 |                81%1
Final disbursement



- 18  -
PAKISTAN - LAH4ORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE 4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
-- ----------------------------------------------------++                                                       --                       --+--------
ISR+                                          J  1982  11983  11984  11985  11986  11987  11988  1  1989  11990  11991  11992  
INO .!                                        I         I          I          I         I          I          I          I         I          I          II
-- I - - - -  -  - -  -  - -  -  - -  -  -I- - -  - -I - - - -I  - - - --I- -  - --I  - - -- - - -I- - -- -I- - - - -I- - - - -I- -  - - -I  - - - -I  - - -
1   CONSULTANT STUDIES                       I          I         I          I          I         I          I          I         I          I          II
I    IOM&F STUDY LDA                          I      E   IE E EEIA A          I          I          I         I          I          I         I          I          I
III                                                      I          I         II                    II                   IIII  I
I22FGUJJAPURA EXPANSION AREA                  I          I         I          II
I    ILAD ACQUISITION                         IE E EEIA A           I         I          I          I         I          I          I         I          I          I
I    ISURVEY                                  IE EA Al              I         I          I          I         I          I          I          I         F 
I    JAPPOINTOGENERAL CONSULT                 IE EA AI              I         I          I          I         I          I          I          III
I    IAPPOINT PROJECT STAFF                   IE E A Al                             I         I          I          I                    I          I
I    ITRUNK INFR-ASTRUCTURE                   I          I          I         I          I          I         III                             III
I  PREPARE DESIGNS                                       E EE  I A A  IA A            I                    II                  IF          II
I    IPREPARE TENDER DOCUMENTS                I          I     ElI            I   A A  A            I         I          I          I          II
I    IGO'T/IDA REV/APPROV                                      E I            I          I   A A  IA A                   I          I         IIII
I    IINVIT/SUB OF TENDERS                    I          I     E   I          I          IA A A  IA A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A Al
I  AWARD OF CONTRACTS                      I          I     E   I          I          I A A  IA A A AlA A A AIA A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A Al
I    !CONST. OF WORKS                         I          I         IE E E I              II  A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A AJA A A Al
I    IHOME BUILDING LOANS                     I          I          I         I          I   E E  IE E        II                    I         I          I          I
I    ISELECT~ION OF BENEFICIARIES             I          I E E                           II                        A A  IA A A AlA A A AlA A A AJA A A Al
J 3JWALLED CITY UPGRADINGI                               I         II                    IIIIII                                                          I
I    JAPPOINT PROJECT STAFF                   IE A E Al             I         I          I         I          I          I                               I II
I    ITOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEY                    JEAE Al               I         I          I          I         I          I          I         I          II
I    ISAMPLE SURVEY                           IE A E Al                             I         I          I          I               I         I          I
I    IPREPAR-ATION OF DESIGNS                 IE A EAl                   I          I         I          I               I          I         I               I
ICONSTRUCTION                            I         I   E A  IE AEAIEA EAIE A EAIE A EAl                            I          I          I                    I
I  LOANS FORNHOME RECONSTRUCTION  I                   I   EA  IE A EAIE A EAIE A EAIE AE  Al                          I          I         I          I          I
I    IIMPROVEMENTS SC-I/COMM                  I          I   E A  IE A E AlE A E Al                 I         I          I          I          I         II
I    ICONSERVATION  PLAN                                 I   E A  JE A E Al              I          I         I          I          I         I          II
I    IMONITORING  & EVALUATION                II                        E A  IE A E AlE A E AlE A E Al                   I          I         I          II
III                                                      I          I         I          III                            III  I
14  ISOLID WASTE COLLECTION ANDI                                  I          I          IIII                                      III
MANAGEMENTI                                        I         I          I          IIIIIII
I    JAPPOINT CONSULTANT                      I       ElI           I A       I          I          I         I          I          I         I          I          I
i    JCONSULTANTS STUDY                       I          IE EE El             I          IA AA Al             I          I          I         I          II
I  EXPT LISTS & SPECS                      I          I  E E El            I          I         IA A A   j            I         I          I          II
I IDESIGN CIVIL WORKS                       I         I   E EEIE            I         I          IA A   F             I          I          I         II
I    IPREPARE TENDER DOCUMENTS                I          I        EIE E       I          I         I      A Al           I         I          I          II
I    IINVIT/SUBETENDERS &AWARD                I         I          I      E El           I         I        AIAA AAIA A AAIA A AAIAA                     II
I  EQPT DELIVERY/CONSTRUCTION                                   I IE EIE E E EIE E E El                    I     A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A A AlA A                I
I  IMONITORING &EVALUATION                    I          I          IE E EEIE E EEIE E EEIE EE EI                   A AIA A AAIA A AAIA A AAIA AA AI
I   I                                         I          I          I         I          I          I         I          I          I         I          I          I
I 5  ISTUDY FOR SECOND  PROJECT               I          I          I         I     E EIE E A AlA A           I          I          I         I          I          I
-- ------------------------------------- ---------------------+----------
+                                         E :  ESTIMATED AT APPRAISAL                                                                                    +          +
++                                        A:  ACTUAL                                                                                                     +          +
I    +                                    A:   ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DATES IDENTICAL                                                                      +          +
-----------------+-------                                         +        +-----------------------------                                    -+-------
/WCS F?)-



- 19 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE SA. PROJECT COSTS
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                                    ACTUAL COSTS (Note 2)
|SR.1         ITEM                            I   LOCAL  FOREIGN       TOTAL                    LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
|NO.|                                         I   COSTS EXCHANGE    (RS.M)   (US$M)  |          COSTS EXCHANGE (RS.M)   (US$M)  |
|  (RS.M)     COSTS             (Note 1)1        (RS.M)     COSTS           (Note 3)1
| I           (RS.M)                      I                 (RS.M)
I 1 |Walled City Upgrading  (Note 4)              45.3         5.9     51.25      3.94          51.12        -    51.12
| 2 IGujjapura Site & Services Scheme            136.01      23.56    159.57    12.27          243.58        -   243.58
I 3 ISolid Waste Management                       26.67      22.95     49.62      3.82 j        45.22    129.36 174.58
| 4 |Studies                                 j    1.12        0.48        1.6     0.12          30.00      36.61  66.61
-        -     -     -     -     -     - I-    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I 5 |Total Base Cost                          |  209.15      52.89    262.04    20.15
I   1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
| 6 lPhysical Contingencies                       13.78       4.98     18.76      1.44
I 7 |Price Contingencies                     j    23.9        7.66     31.56      2.43
 -- I-                                       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_I- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
| 8 |Sub-Total                                |   37.68      12.64     50.32      3.87         369.92    165.97 535.89   21.44
 I---------------------------------- __            ___                                        _      ___ ____ -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -
| 9 |Total Project Costs                         246.83      65.53    312.36   24.02           369.92    165.97 535.B9   21.44
Notes
1  Exchange rate at appraisal US$1 = Rs.13
2  Actual Costs include contingencies
3  Exchange rate US$1 = Rs.25  (December 1992)
4  Project cost for Walled City upgrading includes an amount of Rs. 7.7 million in housing loans
disbursed by HBFC but not reclaimed from credit funds.



- 20 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE SB. PROJECT FINANCING
SOURCE                               PLANNED                           REVISED                          FINAL
MARCH, 1992                      APRIL, 1993
RS.M   US$'000  SDR'000          RS.M   US$'000  SDR'000          RS.M   US$1000  SDR'000
IDA
Expenditure Categories
1 Civil Works                                             5,700                             7,500                            5,627
2 Vehicles/equipment                                      1,400                             3,700                            3,695
3 Cons/Training                                           1,400                             3,000                            2,646
4 Housing Investments                                      3,900                              400                                -
5 Unallocated                                             2,400                               200
Total IDA                            208.00   16,000 14,800            297.00           14,800          321.96   15,800 11,968
Government                             18.00                            18.00                            18,00
Lahore Development Authority          56.00                            111.00                           121.02
Lahore Metropolitan Corporation    30.00                                66.00                             67.2
House Building Finance Corporation   -                                    -                               7.71
Total                                312.00   24,000                   492.00   19,680                  535.89   21,436
Exchange Rates
At Appraisal:                 US$1.0 - Rs.13.0   SDR 1.0 - US$1.081
Revised Project Financing: US$1.0 - Rs.25.0   SDR 1.0 - US$1.42
At Closing:                  US$1.0 - Rs.25.0   SDR 1.0 - US$1.42



- 21 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE 6A.  PROJECT RESULTS - DIRECT BENEFITS
ESTIMATED       ESTIMATED
APPRAISAL      AT CLOSING      AT FULL
INDICATORS                                        ESTIMATE           DATE         DEVELOPMENT       COMMENTS
1.   Walled City Upgrading
Area Upgraded (ha)                                       45               45              45
Improving of Schools                                     20                8               8             1
Community Centres                                         2                -               -             2
Loans for
reconstruction (Rs.M)                                 35                 8               8
Number of Beneficiaries                              75,000           75,000          75,000
2.   Gujiapura Area Development
Area Developed (ha)                                     224              213             213
Developed Plots
Residential (Total)                               10,000            2,000          10,386           3,4
Low Income                                         4,000                            6,582
Commercial/Industrial                                600              Nil              333
Recreation Area (ha)                                     15                2              10             5
Education/Health
Facilities (ha)                                       15                                10            5
Community/Mosques (ha)                                   15                                2             5
Exempted (to existing                                                                                    6
landowners)
Number of Beneficiaries                             60,000           14,000           70,000
3.   Solid Waste Management
Vehicles for Collection,
transport and disposal
of waste                                              60                 -               -            7
Vehicles for Supervisory
Staff                                                 15               15               15
Bicycles                                                100                -               -             8
Handcarts                                            2,000            2,976           2,976
Modify Vehicles Workshop                                  1                1               1
Zonal Vehicle Park                                        3                -
Transfer Station                                          6                1               1
Compaction Trucks                                         -               34              34
Skips                                                     -              971             971             9
Arm roll vehicles                                         -               23              23
Containers                                                -              200             200
Garbage trolley                                           -            1,200           1,200
Tractor                                                   -                4               4            10
Bulldozer                                                 -                2               2            11
Comments
1.   Fund constraint.
2.   Sites not available.
3.   Includes existing development.
4.   Sites fully developed but not yet sold/allocated.
5.   Sites reserved but facilities not yet provided.
6.   Included in total figures.
7.   Details of vehicles types not given at appraisal.
8.   Not provided.
9.   Miscellaneous equipment not detailed at appraisal.
10. Deployed in congested city areas.
11. Deployed at landfill sites.



- 22 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE 6B.    PROJECT RESULTS - ECONOMIC IMPACT
SR.|ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN             |APPRAISAL         |ACTUAL
|NO.1                                    |ESTIMATE          I(AT FINAL DEVELOPMENT)
-- ---                                _ I-- _--              --  --  -- --  -
I 1 lWalled City upgrading               |            27.2%1                              14.5S1
| 2 |Gujjapura Sites                     I                  I                                   I
I   I  and Services                      I            15.0%|                               4.2%1
I 3 IComponents 1&2 Combined                          20.0S1                              10.7%1
I - -  I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -  - -  - - - -   - - - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  I
COMMENTS
ERR for Gujjapura based upon estimated schedule for plot sales.
TABLE 6C. PROJECT RESULTS - FINANCIAL IMPACT
|SR.1   FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN    I    WITHOUT            I          FUTURE WITH                ACTUAL
|NO.1                                    I    PROJECT       I             PROJECT               I
I  I                                     I                  I                                   I
I   |Not applicable, see text                               I                                   I
I   |in Part I.                          I                  I                                   I
I   I                                    I                  I                                   I
 I -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I- - - -   I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- I -
COMMENTS



- 23 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE 6D. PROJECT RESULTS - STUDIES
Purpose as
defined at
Studv              appraisal             Status             Agency             Impact
A. Walled City
Upgrading
1.  Final            D/S of Walled         Done by LDA           LDA           Satisfactory
design and           City component        "in-house"
supervision
2.  Conserva-        To define             Completed            LDA            Satisfactory
tion plan            overall
conservation
strategy.
3. Community         To define a           Completed             LDA           Satisfactory
development          program of
program (with        community
UNICEF)              development
4.  Monitoring       Monitoring and        Completed             LDA           Satisfactory
and evaluation       evaluation of
component
5.  Training         Local and             Completed 1991       LDA           Participation by
and technical        overseas                                                  Senior LDA staff in
assistance           training                                                  seminars, short
courses and study
tours - of direct
benefit to LDA
B. Guliapura
Site & Services
1.  Final            D/S of                Completed 1985       LDA           Work unsatisfactory
design and           Gujjarpura                                                due to selection of
supervision          component                                                non-performing
consultants
2.  Community        To define a           Not utilized         LDA           No impact
development          program of
program (with        community
UNICEF)              development
3.  Monitoring       Monitoring &          Done by LDA          LDA            Satisfactory
& evaluation         evaluation of         "in-house'
component
4.  Training         Local and             Completed 1992       LDA            LDA senior Managers
and technical        overseas                                                 participated in short
assistance           training                                                 courses and study
tours appropriate to
the work in hand, of
direct benefit to LDA
C. Metropolitan
Corporation of
Lahore
1.  Solid Waste      To develop a          Completed 1986       MCL            Not satisfactory due
Management           solid waste                                               to selection of
Study                management                                                inappropriate
strategy for                                             consultant
Lahore
2.  Workshop         Not defined           Completed 1990       MCL           Satisfactory
staff training
3.  Solid Waste      Not defined           Completed 1992       MCL           Satisfactory. Senior
Disposal Plan                                                                 MCL personnel
undertook study tours
of solid waste
facilities



- 24 -
D.  Studies
1.  Preparation       To prepare            Completed 1987        LDA            Enabled appraisal of
of Second Urban       Punjab Urban                                               Punjab Urban
Project and           Development                                                Development Project
assistance with       Project                                                    (Cr. 1895-PAK) in 1987
regional
planning
2.  Double            Not defined           Completed 1989        LDA            Satisfactory
entry
accounting
3.  Organiza-         Not defined                                 LDA            Satisfactory
tion and
administrative
procedure,
financial MIS
4.  Advisory          Not defined           1987                  TEPA           Satisfactory
service to LDA
5.  Preparation       Not defined           Completed 1987        TEPA           Satisfactory
of maintenance
and rehab. of
storm drainage
and street
lighting
6.  Feasibility       Not defined           Completion            TEPA           Satisfactory. In
& detailed                                  anticipated                         preparation for future
design for Ring                             March 1993                           investment program
Road Lahore
7.  Water             Not defined           Completed             WASA           Satisfactory
Supply computer
study
8.  Lahore            Not defined           Completed 1986        WASA          Satisfactory
Urban Drainage
Preliminary
Engineering
Study
9.  Aquifer           Not defined           Completed             WASA          Satisfac'-e y
Study
10.  Walled           Not defined           Completed 1992        WASA          Drainage Investment
City Drainage                                                                   package prepared
Improvement
Project
11.  Langey           Not defined           Completed             WASA          Satisfactory
Mandi reservoir
investigation
12.  Financial        Not defined           Completed             WASA          Financial model
Study of WASA                                                                   prepared
13.  Computer         Not defined           Completed             HBFC          Satisfactory
Training for                                                                    computerized
HBFC                                                                            billing/collection
system installed at
Lahore, replicated by
HBFC in other Zonal
Offices



- 25 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE 7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Reference                   Description of Covenant    Status as at 12/31/1992
Metropolitan
Corporation of Lahore
Project Agreement
2.06 (a)                    Prepare quarterly           Regular reports not
progress report.            provided.
4.02 (i)                    Audit MCL accounts and      Ongoing.
financial statements
annually.
4.02 (ii)                   Within six months of        FY92 outstanding.
financial year-end
provide certified
financial statements
and audit report.
Lahore Development
Authority
Project Agreement
Obligations not
2.06 (a)                    Perform all obligations    discharged include
under agreement with        completing scheme by
HBFC re Gujjapura.          12/31/1986 and repaying
HBFC investment, with
Islamic profit, and 3
years' maturity.
2.07 (a)                    Prepare quarterly           Report to 12/31/1992
progress reports.           provided.
2.10 (a)                    Provide exempt plots on    Plot allotment to
Gujjapura site to           exemptees in progress.
provide landowners on
payment of development
charges sufficient to
recover on-site costs
including IDC.



- 26 -
2.10 (b)                     Sell plots on Gujjapura    3,304 plots allotted.
site to low income
beneficiaries selected
according to procedures
and on terms
satisfactory to IDA.
2.10 (c)                     Sell other plots on          Allocation of remaining
Gujjarpura site at           plots in process.
market price, or at
least to recover costs
as in 2.10 (a).
2.11 (a)                     Before 12/31/83,             Property Tax
GoPunjab/LDA to provide    reassessments
and thereafter               completed.
implement a cost
recovery plan for
Walled City component.
2.11 (b)                     On completion of the         Outstanding.
component, to review
cost recovery and if
necessary adjust
fees/tariffs/taxes to
recover costs.
2.12                         Prepare standard sale        Satisfactory.
agreements for
Gujjarpura plots on
terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
3.02                         By 12/31/83, LDA to          Double-entry accounting
undertake an                 improvements
organization review,         implemented
and during the project       satisfactory.
to implement agreed
recommendations.
4.02                         Audit LDA accounts and       FY91 and FY92 Financial
financial statements         Statements and Audits
annually.                    outstanding.
4.02 (ii)                    Within six months of         Satisfactory.
financial year-end
provide certified
financial statements
and audit report
including a separate
auditor's opinion in
respect of certificates
of expenditure.



- 27 -
4.02 (ii)                    Furnish quarterly             Satisfactory.
financial statement.
Housing Building
Finance Corporation
Project Agreement
2.02                         Make investments in           Infrastructure
Walled City housing          investment made.
improvement, and             Housing loan component
Gujjapura low income         discontinued.
housing purchase and
construction, in
accordance with
criteria satisfactory
to IDA.
2.03                         By 12/31/83 establish         Profits, if any, on
and maintain a               Gujjarpura scheme still
revolving fund,              awaited.
financed by profits on
credit investments, for
further investment in
urban projects.
2.06                         Perform obligations           In part ongoing,
under HBFC investment        although no Islamic
agreement to on-land         profit has been repaid
credit investments on        to GOP (and none has
terms specified              been received from
therein, and to repay        LDA).
GOP a share of Islamic
profit.
4.02 (i)                     Audit HBFC accounts and    Loan component
financial statements         discontinued.
annually.
4.02 (ii)                    Within six months of          Major problems continue
financial year-end           with HBFC accounting.
provide certified            Actions taken include
financial statements         HBFC Portfolio Audit
and audit report             (under FSAL) and
including a separate         Financial
auditor's opinion in         Reconciliation Training
respect of certificates      (under Credit 1348-
of expenditure.              PAK).
4.02 (iii)                   Furnish quarterly             Not Provided.
financial statements.



- 28 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE 8A. USE OF IDA RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
+_--_-------------------------------_+_-______+______-+_______+_____-_---____________+
ISR.|STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE                 IFINANCIALIPLANNEDIFINAL   ICOMMENTS
INO.1                                       I  YEAR              I        I
I1 |Identification to Appraisal             I  FY82    I         I   8.0 |Estimate not availablel
I   IDeparture                              I          I         I        I                          I
I  I                                        I          I         I        I                          I
|2 |Appraisal Departure to Invitationi   FY82    I               |  21.9 |Estimate not availablel
I   Ito Negotiate                           I          I         I        I
I I                                      I           I        III
F 3 INegotiations to Effectiveness          I  FY83    I         1  11.2 |Estimate not availablel
I  I                                        I          I         I        I                          I
| 4 ISupervision                            I  FY83    |18.00 |   1.1 I
|  FY84    |18.00 |  23.2 |
|  FY85    | 18.00 |  19.6 |
|  FY86    | 18.00 |  19.7
|  FY87      18.00      28.0 |
|  FY88    |        |  12.1
|  FY89    F        |  12.6 F
|  FY90    F        I   5.9 |
|  FY91   F         |  37.8 |
|  FY92   F             19.7
I  FY93   F              6.6 F
----------------------------------- - -- +-------+-- ----
F 5 |TOTAL:                                 I          I  90.0 | 227.4 | I
_-----------------------+_______-_                     +______-+_____-_+-_______--____________+



- 29 -
PAKISTAN - LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  (CREDIT 1348-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART III
TABLE BE. USE OF IDA RESOURCES - MISSIONS
ISTAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE                  IMONTH/  INUMBER OF  IDAYS IN   ISPECIALIZATION   |PERFORMANCE   ITYPES OF
I                                        |YEAR    |PERSONS    IFIELD          IREPRESENTED  a/  IRATING              |PROBLEMS c/   |
I  I      I            I            I                     ISTATUS    b/   I
IThrough Appraisal                       |  2/74  |           2 |          2 |                     I                I               -
I  5/74  1          4 1          4 1       a,c,d         I              -                 -
I  11/74 1           41          9 1        a,f                           I               -l
I  8/75  1           31         10 1        a,f
|11/75|             21           7 1        a,f                         -l                  I
110/761              1'          2 1          a          |                                -l
110/771              11          2 1          a          |                                -I
12/791               11          S            a          |                                -I
|  5/79  I           2           8 1        a,f                         - I               -
| 11/79              4 |        16  |    a,b,c,f
|2/80|               3 1        12         a,b,f
5/80|            4 1         101        a,b,f
I  7/80 I           2 1          7          a,c
| 11/80 I            6 |        17       a,b,c,f,g       I              - I
2/81  j          7           18      a,b,c,f,g        I              - I
jAppraisal through Board Approvall  6/81  |                   1 j          2 |         c                             I -            -
I                                        1 10/81  1           4 I          5 |    a,b,c,f                         - I               -
111/82  1           2 1         5 |        c,d                           I               -I
15/83  1             1           4 1          e           |                               -I
~~~~~~~~~~I                             III                 I             I                     I
|Supervision                             I  7/83 1            31           3         c,d,e
110/83|              1          7 l          e           |             -                 _
I  2/84  |           6           3     a,b,c,d,e,f    |                 2                 1
|  7/84|             31          41        a,b,c                        2|                31
I  3/85  |           4 j         6        a,b,c,e         |             2                 3
|  9/85  |           4           8        a,b,c,f        j              2                 3
|  2/861             3|          31        a,c,d                        -l                -
I  4/86 I            6           4       a,b,c,e,f                      3 |               3 I
|  8/86  |           6           9       a,b,c,e,f        |             2                 3
|  2/87  |           7 I         9 I a,b,c,e,g,f,g   |                  2                 3 |
I 10/87  |           3 I         7         b,e,f          |             2                 3
|4/88|               2|         12          b,e                         21                31
12/88             4 |          8         b,c,f         |              2                 3
|3/89  |             1 1         2 1          b                         2 1               3 1
15/89 1              1 |         2 1          b                         2 1               3 1
7 7/89 |            4 |         17 |    b,c,f,g          |              3 |               3 |
6 6/90 |             5 j        10  I    b,c,g,f         |              3 I               3 I
| 10/90              4 |         6        b,c,g,f         I             - I               - I
| 12/90  |           3 I        11  I      b,c,f                        2 1               3 |
|5/911               4 1         3 1       b,c,g                        -I                -I
I  7/91              4          15  1      c,e,f                        2                 3
| 11/91  |           6          10  I    b,c,e,f                        2                 3
|  6/92              4          12        b,c,d,f        j              2                 3
|  1/93  |           3          16         b,c,d          |             2 j               3
a)   Key to Specialization.                b)   Key to Status.
a = Urban Planner                          1 = Improving,  2 - Static,
b = Municipal Engineer                     3 = Deteriorating
c - Finance Analyst                   c)   Key to Problems.
d - Sanitary Engineer                      1 - Technical, 2 - Financial,
e - Procurement Specialist                 3 = Institutional/Management.
f = Technical Specialist
g = Solid Waste Specialist



