Document of
The World Bank                                =    e
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3584-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 25, 1983
Urban and Water Supply Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1                =     US$ 0.077
US$1                =     Rs 13.0
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)         =     39.37 inches or 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)   =      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =     2.47 acres or 10,000 square meters
1 liter (I)         =     1.06 quarts liquid or 0.26 gallons
1 marla             =     20.9 square meters or 225 square feet
1 kanal             =     418 square meters or 20 marlas
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP                  Annual Development Program
ARV            =     Annual Rental Value
GOP                  Government of Pakistan
GOPUN          =     Government of Punjab
HBFC           =     House Building Finance Corporation
LDA            =     Lahore Development Authority
LMA                  Lahore Metropolitan Area
LMC            =     Lahore Municipal. Corporation
UNESCO         =     United Nations Educational Scientific and
Cultural Organization
WAPDA                Water and Power Development Authority
WASA           =     Water and Sanitation Agency
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ..........1.................................... 
A.  Urban Development in Pakistan ...................        ....1 
B.  The City of Lahore ......           ............................     2
C.  Administration and Finance .....           .....................     3
D.  Urban Conditions and Policies ......................                 4
E.  The Bank's Role in Urban Development ...             .............   9
F.  New Responses to Urban Needs .....           ...................    10
II.   THE PROJECT             .............................................    10
A.  Objectives ....... ...................................    10
B.  Main Features .......................................               11
C.  Detailed Description .....         .........................    13
III.   PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING ..               ................    22
A.  Cost Estimates ......................................    22
B.  Execution             ...........................................    23
C.  Financing  ................................................    23
D.  Procurement and Disbursement ........................    26
E.  Accounts and Auditing  .....          ..........................    29
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation .....           ......................    30
G.  Supervision .........................................               30
IV.   COST RECOVERY, AFFORDABILITY AND BENEFICIARY
SELECTION           ...............................................    30
A.  Affordability and Income Distribution .... ............    32
B.  Beneficiary Selection ...............................               34
V.    IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES . ...........  ...................... .           34
A. Project Organization                       ..                        34
B.  The Lahore Development Authority ........ ..           ..........    36
C.  The Lahore Municipal Corporation ......... .. .........    39
D.  The House Building Finance Corporation ....... .......    41
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..........................    42
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................    46
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Pakistan in February/March 1981 consisting of Messrs. D. Graham (mission
leader), B. Menezes, G. Menckhoff, J. Courtney, R. de Silva, A. Malik
(IDA), D. Cole, D. Jackson and A. Penn (consultants). A follow-up mission
in November 1982, comprising Messrs. D. Graham and R. MacWilliam, updated
the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
CHARTS AND TABLES IN THE TEXT                                          Page No.
Table  II-1      Summary Cost Estimates                                    12
Table III-1      Project Financing Plan                                    24
Chart III-1      Flow of Funds                                             25
Table III-2      Estimated Disbursement Schedule                           29
Table  IV-1      Land Use, Affordability Analysis and Differential
Pricing - Gujjarpura Sites and Services                 33
Chart  IV-l      Household Income Distribution                             35
Table  V-i       LDA - Summary Financial Statements                        38
Table  V-2       LMC - Summary Budget                                      41
ANNEXES
I           Detailed Cost Estimates
II            Implementation Schedule and Project Phasing
III            Sources and Applications of Funds
IV           Economic Analysis
V            Urban Poverty Impact and Sector Indicators
VI            The House Building Finance Corporation
VII            Technical Assistance, Consulting Services and Studies
VIII            List of Documents and Data Available on the Project File
PHOTOGRAPHS
Walled City, Lahore (historic areas)
Walled City, Lahore (utilities)
Walled City, Lahore (old housing)
Lahore, Pakistan (Katchi Abadis)
Lahore, Pakistan - Gujjarpura Sites and Services Area
Lahore, Pakistan (urban transport)
Lahore, Pakistan - North Lahore Action Area (Markets)
SKETCHES
23242   Walled City - Pilot Area #2
23040   Walled City - Sewerage and Water Supply
23038   Sites and Services, Neighborhood Land Use
23039   Sites and Services, Initial Provision and Anticipated 2Development
23037   Sites and Services, On Site Development Optio2s (72 m  plot)
23036   Sites and Services, On Site Development (9O  m          plot)



- iii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
MAPS
15541           Lahore Metropolitan Area
15542           Walled City
15540           Gujjarpura Sites and Services






I. BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development in Pakistan
1.01      Nearly 29% of Pakistan's population of 87 million (mid-1982 estimate)
live in urban areas. The urban population grew at an average rate of 4.5% per
annum during the decade 1971-81 as compared to the 3% general rate of popula-
tion increase, and is expected to maintain the same growth rate through the
1980s. Over the last ten years, poverty has remained widespread, 1/ although
Pakistan's major urban centers have made a substantial contribution to labor
absorption and improving incomes. The growth of these centers, however, has
resulted in a clear deterioration of urban living conditions; due to rapid
population growth and relatively low levels of investment in housing and urban
infrastructure, a large and increasing backlog of unmet demands for basic
services has been created, particularly in water supply, sanitation, residen-
tial land, housing and social services.
1.02      Current and programmed expenditure on urban development is low.
Existing financial institutions do not have the capacity to provide adequate
funds for housing loans. Municipal finances of all cities are seriously
limited. Critical shortages of technical and administrative manpower exist
at all levels. Major operational responsibility in the planning and manage-
ment of urban development lies at the provincial and local levels, but effec-
tive coordination of development efforts is hampered by the separation of
maintenance and development responsibilities, lack of clear objectives and
priorities and serious resource constraints. The three major reasons for the
situation prevailing in the urban sector are: (i) weakness of institutions
responsible for revenue collection and operation and maintenance; (ii) lack
of cost recovery for services; and (iii) shortage of trained manpower.
1.03      While Pakistan has recently fared better than its South Asia neigh-
bors in terms of economic growth, it has done less well in terms of social
development. Its life expectancy at birth and literacy are lower and its rate
of infant mortality higher than the average for South Asia. These problems
reflect the inadequacies of the response to basic needs of shelter, water
supply, sanitation, education and health. Failure to address these basic
needs will mean a deterioration in the distribution of income and larger
numbers of people living in urban poverty. It is currently estimated that
the bottom 40% of the population receive about 18% of the national income.
The Province of Punjab
1.04      Punjab, with a total population of about 40 million, has an urban
population of about 12.5 million. This includes Lahore, the provincial
capital and Pakistan's second largest city, after Karachi. It is the largest
1/   Based on the Bank's most recent estimates, 45% of the population in
urban areas had incomes below the absolute urban poverty threshold of
US$200 per capita per year in 1980.



-2-
center in the province with a population of about 3.25 million (i9y81 f;,
lowed by 8 cities with populations ranging from 100,000 to 900,000 including
Faisalabad (900,000), Rawalpindi (700,000) and Multan (600,000). In addition,
there are some 170 other towns with a population over 5,000.
1.05      As is common in other urban areas in the country, most of these
cities have only partial water supplies, and little or no sewerage; standards
are low and interruptions of service are frequent. More than one third of
urban families in the province live in mudhouses or huts.
B. The City of Lahore
1.06      Lahore is located on the left bank of the river Ravi, close to the
border with India (Map 15541). The city's origins date back more than a
thousand years. From a mud fort on the banks of the old Ravi and seat of the
local Hindu rulers, it grew into a fortified city under the Afghans and Turks
and spread beyond the walls to include a number of suburbs and gardens under
the Mughals. The city flourished as a regional center under the Mughals in
the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, but fell into decline in the
ensuing hundred years until it was taken over by the British in the mid nine-
teenth century. Subsequently, the city became an important industrial and
commercial center and headquarters of the North Western Railway, still the
largest single employer in the city.
1.07      Much of the historical development of Lahore still exists, particu-
larly the Walled City and Mughal forts, although many areas are in a serious
state of overcrowding and physical decline. Because of its historical asso-
ciations, Lahore is very much the cultural heart of Pakistan and there is keen
interest throughout the country to arrest the decay in its urban environment
and preserve its heritage.
1.08      Today, Lahore is a sprawling, rapidly expanding city (population
growth has averaged 4.5% per annum over the past decade), with a crowded
historical center, including the old Walled City whose densities average 1,100
persons per hectare, and low density settlements on the outskirts. The city
is structured by a network of major streets and its growth to the north and
west is physically constrained by the Ravi and its flood plain, from which the
city is protected by bunds. The whole region is low-lying and flat, which
causes many areas to be flooded in the rainy season and remaining so for days
if not weeks.
1.09      The city and its hinterland are characterized by relatively well
developed agricultural and manufacturing activities. The urban system around
Lahore, which includes such towns as Gujranwala, Sheikhupura, Gujurat, and
Sialkot, is relatively well-integrated, but the region as a whole could
benefit from the introduction of measures to improve transportation and



- 3 -
communication between its urban centers. Lahore itself has a substantial pool
of skilled manpower and entrepreneurial talent and could take advantage of the
economies of agglomeration needed for the growth of export-oriented manuiactur-
ing. It is the country's major center for textiles, carpets, engineering and
machinery industries, many of which are relatively small-scale; this has enecur-
aged the emergence of sub-contractor and local technical services.
1.10      Industrial estates have been established along two of the four main
roads leading out of Lahore and industries have also spontaneously developed
elsewhere in Lahore, in addition to numerous concentrations of small and
medium-scale manufacturing and assembly workshops. In 1977, the Lahore Metro-
politan Area (LMA) provided employment to about 770,000, 28% in community/
personal/social services, 28% in commerce, 27% in construction, transport
and miscellaneous and 17% in manufacturing, showing the predominance of the
service sector over industries.
C. Administration and Finance
1.11      Planning and land development in the LMA (area 1760 sq km) is the
prime responsibility of the Lahore Development Authority (LDA), the Urban Wing
of which develops housing and roads. The Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA),
an autonomous agency under the LDA Board, is responsible for the provision
of water supply, sewerage and drainage. Municipal services in the urban area
of the LMA are provided by the Lahore Municipal Corporation (LMC, area 404 sq
km) and the Cantonment Board (area 87 sq km).  LDA partially coordinates the
planning and development of essential urban services by other agencies, in-
cluding the provision of electricity and street lighting by the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA), and natural ga,s distribution by SUI Gas.
1.12      While LDA is officially entrusted with the duty to ensure inter-
agency coordination for land and overall urban development, its powers over
other agencies are limited; however, some inter-agency coordinating commit-
tees have been established at the working level. T'hese committees make vital
contributions to urban management. For example, a traffic management commit-
tee was recently established to coordinate the activities of some 15 different
authorities to improve traffic conditions in Lahore. Similarly, a water and
sewerage committee has been functioning for some time.
1.13      Lack of financial resources available to local agencies has seriously
constrained their ability to perform their development and operating functions.
The LDA has power to levy a betterment fee, with the consent of the Government,
but has not used this power as it has not yet embarked on the kind of projects,
e.g. area upgrading, where this type of levy might be appropriate. It there-
fore relies largely on proceeds of sale of developed land (US$18.0 million in
1980/81) and on Federal loans and grants (US$2.5 million in 1980/81) out of a
total development budget of US$25.0 million in 1980/81. At present, LDA's
single entry accounting system does not reveal its real resource position.
Meanwhile, LDA is expected to operate as a commercial entity. Consultants



-4-
have been appointed to review the management and financial organization of
the LDA and to assist in implementing improvements (see paras 5.04 to 5.14).
1.14      The principal agency responsible for operation and maintenance of
municipal services, LMC, levies octroi 1/ taxes which generate 70% of its
revenue, and receives a 40% share of property taxes levied by the Provincial
Government which accounts for most of the balance of LMC's revenues. The
present exemption level for property tax (set at about US$120 annual rental
value) results in about one quarter of all households being exempt. Property
assessments are carried out every five years and the most recent reassessment
carried out in 1980/81 has doubled the LMC's revenue from this source in
fiscal year 1982/83.
1.15      The Government of Punjab, which has overall responsibility for LDA
(through the Department of Housing and Physical Planning) and LMC (through
the Department of Local Government) is actively considering ways and means of
improving inter-agency coordination and the possibility of institutionalizing
some more efficient system. Lack of financial resources is, however, likely
to remain a constraint on the ability of agencies to perform their development,
operating and maintenance functions.
D. Urban Conditions and Policies
1.16      Approximately 45% of the population of Lahore is below the 1980 Bank
estimated absolute urban poverty threshold of Rs 850 per household per month.
This amounts to about 1.5 million people, half of whom reside in squatter
settlements (Katchi Abadis), one-tenth reside in the Walled City, and the
remainder live at high densities in other established parts of the city.
In terms of basic needs the urban poverty group in Lahore lacks basic shelter
and adequate water/sanitation services, has almost no health services and is
deficient in primary education.
Shelter
1.17      Lahore is facing a substantial and growing shortage of housing and
infrastructure services, particularly for the lower income groups. Some
25-30% of the total population live in Katchi Abadis, where insecurity of
tenure, overcrowding in poor housing conditions and limited access to infra-
structure and public services are the main features. A further 25-30% of the
population live in the Walled City (260,000 people) and adjacent old estab-
lished parts of the city in conditions of severe overcrowding, decaying
houses and inadequate urban services.
1.18      Land is expensive around Lahore; prices of $10-$20 per sq m for
undeveloped land are common. Developed land is scarce and its market price
can be three to four times that of undeveloped land. As a result, Katchi
1/   A form of localized customs duty on goods entering the city.



- 5-
Abadis are common around Lahore; 100 of them have been officially identified
by LDA and their population is estimated at about 750,000 or 25% of the LMA
population. Construction costs also are high, due to high material costs
and a shortage of skilled labor resulting from the many construction workers
having left the region to work in the Middle East. A large fraction of the
Lahore population cannot afford conventional housing, even if financing is
made available. Studies indicate that in Lahore, the cost of constructing a
conventional two-room dwelling unit--a size acceptable to the average family
of 6.5--is about US$2,000 which, together with the ciDst of land, could be
afforded only by households with a monthly income of at least US$125 equiva-
lent. On this basis, given current incomes, conventional housing could not
be afforded by about 60% of the population. In addition, less than 5% have
access to credit due to scarcity of funds and collateral requirements of
lending agencies.
1.19      Thus, high urban land prices, ineffective planning and inadequate
supply of serviced land, and lack of access to established financial markets
have combined to deny the low-income population access to urban services and
housirg at prices they can afford.
1.20      LDA launched a Katchi Abadi upgrading program in 1977, 1! which has
so far benefitted an estimated quarter of a million people in 30 squatter
settlements on state land within the LMA. A further nine Katchi Abadis are
currently being upgraded and it is planned that the program should move on
to settlements on privately owned land in the near future. The program
appears to be successful, in that residents obtain security of tenure and
services, while development costs, which, at about US$200 per family are
affordable to beneficiaries and cost about one-tenth of the alternative
subsidized one room apartments, are recovered. One weakness of the program
lies in the poor mainteriance of services, due to design problems, apparent
lack of community participation and poor service by LMC. A program to remedy
these shortcomings is being undertaken by LDA and LMC, with assistance from
UNICEF.
1.21      The existing public sector housing program by LDA has proved inade-
quate to cope with the growth in demand and its main beneficiaries have been
middle and upper income groups. Virtually all land development in Lahore is
done by the public sector, and most of it by the LDA, which acquires land and
subdivides it after development in collaboration with various agencies. Under
Martial Law Instruction 23, which became effective in 1977, LDA has powers to
purchase undeveloped land at a price of US$1,540 per acre (about 35 cents per
sq m or about one-twentieth of the market price), provided 30% of the land
is returned to the original owner, who pays his share of the development
cost. To date this method of acquisition has been used mostly for LDA's
middle income housing programs. Between 1975 and the end of 1979, the LDA
1/   Of the 100 Katchi Abadis, 45 are on State land, 25 are on private land,
30 are jointly on private and State land. 15 Katchi Abadis, mostly on
State land, are scheduled for relocation and 85 are to be regularized.



- 6 -
provided about 25,000 serviced lots. The LDA current program provides about
15,000 lots every year, of an overall annual demand of approximately 25,000. 1/
The formal private sector provides about 2,000 and the remaining 8,000 are
provided by the informal sector often in the form of Katchi Abadis and over-
crowding in existing low income areas.
1.22      The main source of housing finance for the private sector is the
House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC) which finances private and coopera-
tive housing and provides support to Development Authorities' projects. Since
its incorporation in 1952, the HBFC has advanced a total of Rs 4,550 million
(US$350 million) for the construction or reconstruction of some 380,000 units
of residential property, nearly half of which were in the Province of Punjab
(see Annex VI, paras 10-11).
Infrastructure Services
1.23      The development of infrastructure has not kept pace with urban
growth, particularly in low income areas, resulting in low service levels in
these areas. Areas of responsibility for provision and maintenance of basic
urban services are reasonably well defined and coordination among agencies,
which has been weak in the past, has improved as a result of the inter-agency
committees established in 1980. The Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and
Drainage Project, Cr. 630-PAK, 2/ funded by IDA is currently being implemented
with completion due by the end of 1983.
Sewerage and Drainage
1.24      Sewerage and drainage, both of which are being improved under
Cr. 630-PAK, are partly interlinked, particularly in the high density inner
city areas where sewers and drains serve the same function; the long-term aim
is to "separate" the two systems. The trunk sewerage network consists mostly
of an old and inadequate piped system draining into open channels, which are
often choked by deposits of solid waste and, carrying raw sewage, can be
offensive in the built-up areas. As the city is generally low-lying, extensive
flooding occurs in the rainy season, when outlets to the Ravi River are sub-
merged. Cr. 630-PAK provides for separation of about 50% of
sewage flow from drainage. The new sewerage system will provide benefits to
the densely populated inner city low-income areas, although much of the second-
ary and tertiary network in these areas, particularly in the Walled City, has
yet to be provided. Raw sewage discharging from sewers and drains is extensively
used for crop irrigation with a resultant high incidence of water related
diseases. Solutions to this problem are being studied by WASA and a pilot
treatment plant is under construction.
1/   22,500 would be to meet new population growth of 146,000 per year (at
4.5% per annum, 6.5 persons per household) and the remaining 2,500 would
be for replacement. Of the total demand, 10,000 units would be needed
to meet growth in the urban poverty group.
2/   The first project, which consisted of infrastructure and studies to
establish an independent authority, was completed in 1975.



-7-
Solid Waste Collection
1.25      Solid waste collection covers nearly 70% of the city's area on an
intermittent basis, but reaches less than half of the population, since it is
mainly the low density middle and upper income areas that are served. Esti-
mated daily production of solid waste in the city is approximately 2,200 tons.
Some 40% of the total wastes generated are collected by LMC with a further 40%
being collected by farmers in the dry season for use as a soil conditioner or
for land reclamation by dumping. There are insufficient communal dustbins
and wastes are constantly overflowing at collection points and filth depots
(transfer stations). Disposal is by crude dumping on any available site where
the landowner's permission can be obtained. In unsewered areas such as the
Walled City, and in areas where connections to sewers are deficient, night
soil is mixed with solid waste, thereby greatly increasing the health hazards
at all stages in the collection, transfer and disposal chain.  Large amounts
of solid waste are also dumped in open drains by residents, causing the drains
to block and creating an additional health hazard from stagnant sewage.
1.26      At present, LMC's garbage collection fleet comprises about 160
bullock carts, 43 tractor/trailer units and 65 trucks, of which 48 are in
service at any one time. Vehicles are poorly maintained, insufficient in
number and poorly utilized. The productivity of the 6,000 workers employed
in the service is low, due to inadequate equipment and limited supervision.
Water Supplies
1.27      The water distribution system, being improved under Cr. 630-PAK, is
old with little storage capacity and inadequate secondary and tertiary
networks, and does not meet peak demands. Unaccounted for water is estimated
to be about 50% of water production. A leak detection and mains replacement
program aims at reducing this to 40% by 1986. About 60% of the population
have direct access to water, but are supplied intermittently and at varying
pressures. In the densely populated central areas, including the Walled City,
the aged distribution network is hydraulically inefficient, leaking and
subject to contamination under conditions of negative pressure. The supply
situation has been improved recently with the commissioning of new wells
constructed under Cr. 630-PAK. The remaining 40% of the population, mainly
in low-income areas, are served by standpipes or private wells, the latter,
due to their shallow depth and intrusion of sewage, being frequently con-
taminated. Health statistics indicate that water-borne diseases are a major
problem in Lahore.
Electricity and Gas
1.28      Electricity supply and distribution is the responsibility of the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), with responsibility for street
lighting split between WAPDA and LMC. Ongoing projects are improving the aged
distribution system but so far with little benefit to the low-income high
density areas. Street lighting outside the central area and low-density
high-income areas is poor and maintenance inadequate. Natural gas, which is
the cheapest fuel source due to its low, government controlled price, reaches
Lahore through a 16-inch diameter pipeline. About 20% of households are



- 8 -
connected to the distribution system of Sui Northern Gas Pipelines. Few low
income areas are served and the Walled City low-income area is specifically
excluded due to the danger of fire or explosion in the confined narrow streets.
Transport and Traffic
1.29      Approximately half of the total passenger movement (excluding walk-
ing) into the central area is carried by private vehicles, including bicycles
(17%), cars and taxis (15%), motorcycles (12%), and trucks and vans (7%).
Buses carry about 28%, rickshaws 8%, minibuses 7%, and tongas (animal drawn
public transport) 6%. In most parts of the city, especially to the south and
east of the city center, the main road network is well developed with wide
avenues that permit relatively high travel speeds. In the central area, how-
ever, traffic intensity and vehicle mix have resulted in considerable conges-
tion which affects both private and public transport. In the large, expanding
areas to the west and northeast of the Walled City, there is a complete absence
of major roads, and there is little scope to improve accessibility through
traffic management measures. The unplanned development of these areas has now
created a situation in which access is only possible in small vehicles, while
buses (even the private minibuses) shy away from the narrow and irregular
streets. The absence of effective traffic control measures, combined with
undisciplined driver and pedestrian behavior, has been identified as a main
cause for Lahore's excessive accident rate. Near the Walled City, great
numbers of animal drawn and other slow moving vehicles mix freely with cars,
buses and motorcycles, which has resulted in traffic congestion that could be
relieved by relatively inexpensive traffic engineering measures.
1.30      Most urban bus services are provided by the Punjab Urban Transport
Corporation (PUTC) set up in 1977 under the control of the Federal Government.
PUTC is heavily subsidized, as fare revenues cover less than half of its
cost. It only operates stage services within Lahore, for which it originally
had a monopoly. In recent years, however, permits have been issued to
private operators of about 100 standard buses and 600 minibuses.   A PUTC
expansion program is currently underway with Swedish aid, and 600 modern
Volvo buses have recently been added to the fleet; this is complemented by
extensive technical assistance to modernize workshops and management proce-
dures.
Health and Education
1.31      The only recent city-wide health information collected on a
consistent basis has been for cholera. While not covering other key health
indicators, it is indicative of diseases related to deficiencies in water/
sanitation services. Areas where high incidence were recorded during the
August 1980 epidemic include the Walled City and low income settlements in
North Lahore.
1.32      In the Lahore urban area 83% of the primary school age children
and 50% of the children of middle and high school age are enrolled: approxi-
mately 25% of the primary schools in Lahore are run by LMC (the remainder by
GOPUN, private and religious bodies), often in dilapidated buildings lacking
playgrounds, toilet facilities and furniture.



- 9 -
1.33      For the lower income groups, formal training of children beyond
primary school is all but non-existent. Very little institutionalized voca-
tional training is available; it is mostly through informal channels and
on-the-job training.
1.34      While the physical aspects of many of the schools may be inadequate,
educational programs have been more effective than in the country as a whole.
Literacy is approximately 33% for Lahore and 16% for the country as a whole.
E. The Bank's Role in Urban Development
1.35      The proposed project is the second multi-sector urban project to be
appraised in Pakistan. During 1974/75, Bank staff worked closely with the
Karachi Metropolitan Corporation (KMC) and the Bank was Executing Agency for
a UNDP-financed urban planning exercise which was to prepare a project to
improve the Lyari district in Karachi for IDA financing. The project was
appraised, but not negotiated. The reasons related to cost recovery (which
became a political issue in the 1977 elections) and the size of the proposed
slum improvement program relative to the KMC budget. Efforts to suitably
modify the project were not successful, and the project was abandoned. Local
budget constraints continue to be a problem, but prospects for future urban
projects in Karachi (and the Province of Sind) are improving. Sector work
focusing on Karachi and Sind, related to a possible urban project, is con-
tinuing. Recent Bank economic work on Sind Government finances has indicated
that there is scope for raising additional revenues in Karachi, particularly
through more appropriate pricing of public services and increased property
taxation of high-income groups.
1.36       Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector has so
far been confined to the city of Lahore. A 1967 credit of US$1.75 million
helped create and equip WASA, and to prepare plans and begin first-phase
construction of water supply, sewerage and drainage works there. A second
US$26.6 million credit (Cr. 630-PAK) was approved in 1976. The project was
developed from an ongoing UNDP technical assistance project, for which the
Bank was Executing Agency and includes further institutional -eform and
extension of water supply, sewerage and drainage works. The project has
encountered delays in final design and procurement, and, although the water
supply components are completed, the sewerage components are about two years
behind schedule. A bulk water supply project, now under preparation for
Karachi, had been delayed by financial, pricing policy and institutional
problems but has recently made progress in these areas.
1.37      Consultants financed under Cr. 630-PAK were appointed in late
1978 to assist LDA in carrying out urban planning and transportation studies
which would provide the basis for an urban development project in Lahore
suitable for IDA financing. The findings of these studies have helped to
initiate new responses to urban needs.



- 10 -
F. New Responses to Urban Needs
1.38      A number of policy responses to deal with the problems facing Lahore
have been initiated or are actively under consideration by Provincial Govern-
ment and local authorities.   The Katchi Abadi upgrading program has already
improved the living environment of about one-third of the population living in
squatter settlements in Lahore. It is planned that this program will continue
to upgrade the remaining Katchi Abadis over the next few years. To reduce
traffic congestion in the crowded central areas, LDA has recently embarked
upon a series of low cost traffic management schemes, while in the rapidly
expanding North Lahore area, LDA is undertaking a planning action program to
improve land use and investment strategy in the area.
1.39      The Government is now turning its attention to two related areas,
the upgrading of the high density low income areas in the city center and
increasing the supply of serviced lots to meet the demands of the expanding
population, particularly the low income groups and small businesses. A key
element of these new policy initiatives is the strengthening of the institu-
tions responsible for delivery and maintenance of urban services, through
improved management and mobilization of financial resources, and through
improved inter-agency coordination.
1.40      The proposed project would assist the government and local authori-
ties in implementing and further developing these policies.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01      The basic objectives of this first urban development project in
Pakistan would be to strengthen the capacity of local institutions to prepare
and implement integrated urban development programs which will arrest the
decay in urban living conditions, improve municipal services and develop
strategies to cope with continuing urban growth, particularly the delivery
of services and shelter to the urban poor. To achieve these objectives the
project would include:
(a) Integrated physical components to be undertaken as
demonstration schemes in the most critical sectors; and
(b) Training and technical assistance to strengthen the insti-
tutions responsible for planning, financing, operating and
managing metropolitan and municipal services, to enable
these institutions to replicate similar schemes on a larger
scale in future.



- 11 -
B. Main Features
2.02      The scope and content of the proposed project can be summarized
as follows (see Table II-1 for summary cost estimates):
(a) Upgrading in the Walled City Low-Income Area (US$4.6 million;
19% of project cost) 1/. (i) Upgrading about 45 hectares
between the Delhi Gate and the Lohari Gate in which about
50,000 people live, through provision of sewerage, leak detec-
tion and replacement of water supply, improvements to street
lighting, upgrading of schools and provision of community
centers; (ii) Improvement of the solid waste collection
service; (iii) Provision of investments for house reconstruc-
tion; (iv) Preparation of a conservation plan for the Walled
City; and (v) Design and supervision, community development,
monitoring and evaluation and training.
(b)  Sites and Services in the Gujjarpura Area (US$14.5 million;
61% of project cost) 1/. For about 65,000 people, consisting
of some 10,000 residential plots, of which over 4,000 would be
for low-income beneficiaries in the income groups Rs 400 to
Rs 1,000 per month (7th to 50th percentile of the urban income
distribution), 200 commercial plots, 400 industrial plots and
sites for education, health and community facilities, all
fully serviced with roads, electricity, water supply, sewerage,
street lighting and solid waste collection facilities.
(c)  Improvements in Solid Waste Collection and Municipal Management
and Maintenance (US$4.7 million; 19% of project cost). 1/
Collection, transport and disposal of solid waste on a city-
wide basis through provision of bins and containers, vehicles,
equipment for the municipal maintenance workshops, upgrading
of transfer stations and selection of sanitary landfill sites.
Solid waste management studies and street maintenance equipment.
(d)  Studies (US$0.2 million; 1% of project cost). 1/  Costs of
training and technical assistance are included under
the relevant project components above. In addition a study
for the preparation of a second urban project would be under-
taken under the project.
I/   Including physical and price contingencies.



- 12 -
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE II-1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
PERCENT        PERCENT
FOREIGN        OF BASE
----       RS MILLION -------------  ------------…US $ MILLION---------            EXCHANGE          COST
LOCAL        FOREIGN           TOTAL  LOCAL         FOREI£N           TOTAL            .              '.
i.WALLED CITY UPGRADING          45.35           5.90           51.25   3.49            0.45            3.94           11.51          19.56
2.EUjJARPURA SITES&SERVICES  136.01             23.56          159.57  10.46             1.81          12.27           14.76          60.90
3.SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT         26.67          22,95           49.62   2.05             1.77           3.82          46.25           18.94
4.STUDIES                         1.12            0.48           1.60   0.09            0.04            0.12           30.00           0.61
TOTAL BASE COST              209.15           52.89          262.04  16.09            4.07           20.16          20.18          100.00
5.PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         13.79           4.98           1B.76   1.06            0.38            1.44          26.55            7.16
6.PRICE CONTINGENCIES            23.90           7.66           31.56   1.84            0.59            2.43          24.27           1,.04
SUB-TOTAL                      37.68          12.64           50.32   2.90            0.97            3.87          25.12           i9.20
TOTAL PROJErT COSTS            246.83           65.53         312.36  18.99             5.04          24.03           20.98          119.20



- 13 -
2.03      The project would, through the initiation of an integrated urban
development program, assist in bringing about important policy changes and
improving the effectiveness of the main institutions responsible for urban
planning and management. Institution building is a key objective which would
be achieved through the training and technical assistance programs included
under the project and through the experience to be gained in project implemen-
tation. An organization, management and finance study would be undertaken for
the principal implementing agency, LDA, to strengthen its capacity to plan,
finance and implement similar projects in future. The upgrading proposed in
the Walled City would improve the living environment of about 2% of the urban
poverty group in the city and would establish a pattern for further improve-
ment in Lahore and in other cities of Pakistan on a replicable basis at low
costs that are affordable to the beneficiaries (about US$600 total cost per
household). The sites and services scheme would provide services and shelter
for about 10,000 families, which is about 10% of the demand during the project
period. This component would increase the annual output of public sector
housing by about one-quarter and would greatly increase the delivery of
shelter services to the lowest income groups, at costs that are affordable to
beneficiaries (average cost per household, including design and supervision,
building investments, physical contingencies, etc. US$1,300). The solid waste
component would improve the urban environment, particularly in low income
areas that are not presently served. The combined effect of these actions
will bring about a significant shift in policies regarding cost recovery and
use of resources in Pakistan's second largest city, and can be expected to
have repercussions on other urban areas throughout the country.
C. Detailed Description
Upgrading in the Walled City
2.04      The historical Walled City, first built around the Eleventh Century,
is a traditional Islamic city of the pre-industrial part of the LMA. It
was the focus of political events in the life of the Province and the country,
and has played a central role in the socio-economic evolution of the region.
At present, it is a congested, bustling city in which some 260,000 people
live and work. It was selected for upgrading under the project as represent-
ing the largest single agglomeration of urban poor in Lahore, with some of
the worst environmental conditions.
2.05      Population densities in the Walled City are the highest in Lahore,
averaging around 1,100 persons per hectare compared with 160 persons per
hectare average for the inner metropolitan area. The building stock in the
Walled City has not increased in over a hundred years. The structures, mainly
of burnt brick walls and timber floors and balconies, are densely packed into
tiny plots (median size 40 sq meters each), rising generally to 3 or 4 storeys.
More than half the dwellings are occupied by single households, about a quarter



- 14 -
contain two households each, while the remainder house three or more households
each. Overcrowding in the Walled City is serious; while the average household
size is nearly 7 persons, one-third of the population lives in single room
dwelling units and another third in two-room units.
2.06      As the more prosperous families have moved out of the Walled City
to areas with better amenities, the composition of the residual population has
become more and more uniformly poor. Typical household incomes now range from
Rs 300 to Rs 1000 per month and average household incomes are approximately
Rs 850 per month (the 45th percentile of the urban income distribution), with
an average income of Rs 600 per month for the head of household.
2.07      Problems to be Remedied.  Drainage and sewerage services are provided
through a system of constricted open drainage ditches in conjunction with
night soil collection to service the dry latrines which prevail throughout the
area. Increasing population density, deterioration of the night soil collec-
tion services and the almost complete absence of a solid waste collection
service has led to increasing discharge of solid waste and sewage into the
open drainage ditches, causing obstruction and deterioration in health condi-
tions. The water distribution network is old and inadequate with many leaks
and gives an intermittent supply. Individual house connections are overground
in "bundles" which are hydraulically inefficient, leaking and subject to
contamination under conditions of negative pressure. Cars and light vans, in
addition to animal drawn vehicles, can gain access only along the main bazaar
roads; most traffic is pedestrian oriented due to narrow street widths. Access
for emergency vehicles is severely restricted.  The majority of dwellings have
electricity supply, but distribution is old, neglected and dangerous. Street
lighting is inadequate. Sui Gas is not prepared to bring mains into the Walled
City due to risk of fire and explosion, although mains are available on the
perimeter.
2.08      The Walled City is built on a manmade mound of the ruins of previous
dwellings. The falling water table in the aquifer under the city coupled
with frequent seepage from leaking water mains has resulted in weakened
foundations so that many of the aged buildings are structurally unsound and
even dangerous. Of the 22,500 residential lots more than one-eighth lie
vacant where houses have collapsed and not been rebuilt and more than 1 in
every 12 is structurally dangerous. Surveys carried out during project
preparation show that the poor conditions of the housing stock is primarily
due to the low incomes of the inhabitants and their lack of access to credit
to repair their dwellings. To a lesser extent it also reflects the fact that,
while 70% of houses are owner occupied, 30% are occupied by tenants or subject
to multiple ownership resulting from split inheritance, a factor which diffuses
the responsibility for repair and maintenance.
2.09      Location of Project Area.  The project area accounts for about 45
hectares with a population of around 50,000 and covers about one-fifth of the
area of the Walled City (or about one-third of the residential area in need of



- 15 -
upgrading).  The area is situated between Lohari Gate and Delhi Gate, with the
new development of the Shah Almi Bazaar separating the two parts. The area is
typical of the Walled City as a whole, containing narrow residential streets
as well as larger bazar streets, mosques, schools and buildings of historic
and cultural value.
2.10      The project area is based on the existing drainage catchment area.
It is shown on Map 15542 which also indicates the location of the two areas
in which detailed studies were made during project preparation and the loca-
tion of the test Sewerage Project carried out during project preparation.
2.11      Proposed Improvements under the project reflect the priorities of
the inhabitants (expressed in surveys carried out during project preparation)
and would include the provision of sewerage and connection of individual
toilets to the system. Improvements to the water supply system and street
lighting systems in these areas are also proposed, together with the upgrading
of existing health and education facilities. The solid waste collection system
would be improved throughout the Walled City. The infrastructure improvements
will generally comprise the following:
(a)  Sewerage.  Existing gradients make the introduction of sewers
feasible, but sewerage involving excavation is not possible
due to probable weakening of foundations and subsequent col-
lapse of buildings. Sewers will be created by laying pipes
along, and at the same level as, the existing drains or by
building up and covering the existing channels. Street levels
will be raised, repaved and profiled to make provision for
surface water runoff. Individual covered sewer connections
will be provided to each property so that internal sanitary
plumbing can be installed. A test sewerage scheme, covering
some 80 households and including sanitary plumbing installa-
tions, has already been implemented. The results of this
test show that the proposed improvements are very acceptable
to the residents and can be carried out within the costs and
time scale envisaged.
(b)  Water Supply.  A leak detection and mains renovation program,
will reduce leakage and wastage. The secondary and tertiary
networks will be renewed and reinforced with connections and
hydrants from them to replace the pipe "bundles." Main-laying
will be achieved with little or no excavation, pipe cover being
provided by the raised street levels.
(c)  Solid Waste.  Communal containers will be located for the best
vehicular access, to be serviced by collection vehicles provided
under the project. Implementation will be concurrent with, or
before, sewerage and water supply.



- 16 -
(d)  Street lighting and electricity supply.  The street lighting
network will be reestablished and extended and, in conjunction
with WAPDA, the main distribution network will be progressively
renewed.
2.12      It is expected that the proposed infrastructure improvements will
revitalize these parts of the Walled City and spur the inhabitants to improve
their dwellings. The project would assist in this by providing for invest-
ments through HBFC for owners to reconstruct damaged buildings.
2.13      Community Facilities - Schools, Community and Health.  Within the
project area there are about 20 schools, which would be upgraded under the
project. It is also proposed that four community centers be established in
the project area utilizing properties managed by the Evacuee Trust Property
Board (Hindu Auqaf). The project would provide funds for the planning,
design and upgrading of these facilities. An important part of these com-
munity facilities will be a health dispensary to help provide basic health
care in the neighborhoods. Funding for the establishment of the health
program will be included in the project.
2.14      Community Development-Conservation Plan.  The project would also
provide for an intensive community development program to ensure residents
participation, and for preparation of a conservation plan to preserve the
environment of the Walled City. This last would be undertaken with assistance
from UNESCO.
Gujjarpura Sites and Services
2.15      The proposed project component comprises four elements (see Map
15540):
(a)  a sites and services component comprising about 4,140 resi-
dential plots for low income families, who would be able
to purchase the plots through loans repayable in monthly
repayments.
(b)  an "exempt" residential component comprising about 4,350
larger plots that will be returned to existing owners
through the Exemption Policy.
(c) development of some 740 plots for (i) setting up small scale
industrial units; (ii) smaller scale establishments with link-
ages with the larger units; (iii) residential purposes as well
as for industrial/household enterprises with the owner residing
on the premises; (iv) commerce only.
(d) upgrading of and provision of services for areas of the site
already occupied by spontaneous residential growth (746 plots).



- 17 -
2.16      These four components will be supported by the necessary off-site
infrastructure, and sites for community facilities, including schools, open
space, community centers, and health dispensaries.
2.17      Site Selection.  The location of the site is shown on Map 15541
in the northern area of Lahore. The site was identified as one of the few
undeveloped areas within the flood bund relatively close to business and
industrial employment where reasonable costs for site preparation could be
expected, where off site infrastructure existed or could be provided, and
where land acquisition would not present undue difficulty. The site is also
part of the area covered by LDA's North Lahore Action Program (para 1138),
2.18      Land Acquisit:ion.  The land will be purchased under the Punjab Land
Acquisition (Housing) Act of 1973 under which LDA, by powers granted by the
Punjab Government, can acquire, for the purpose of developing housing schemes,
any property on the payment of compensation at Rs 20,000 per acre plus the
assessment value of any property, crops, trees, etc. that may exist on the
land.
2.19      Potential resistance on the part of owners, due to the wide disparity
between market values and the compensation, is countered by the official
"Exemption Policy." At present the exemption policy allows for thirty percent
of the original land holdings to be exempted from acquisition, but developed
nevertheless as part of the overall scheme, and then returned to the owner in
the form of serviced residential plots against the payment of a development
charge. The market value of developed "exempted" plots in the project area
is currently estimated to be more than the value of the original land holding
plus the development charge which makes the policy acceptable to owners. 1/
The exemption policy provides LDA with a practical and expeditious means of
acquiring the site without a massive investment in land acquisition for which
it does not have the resources (Rs 130 to 200 million at market prices versus
Rs 7 million under the exemption policy plus Rs 38 million for the cost of
1/   Current market values ?f undeveloped land in the site area are estimated
to be Rs 100-150 per m .2 Existing owners will part with 70% of their land
at a price of Rs 5 per m and will pay a development charge of about Rs 65
per m for the 30% retained, which whSn developed, will have a market
value estimated at about Rs 700 per m . On this basis, total profit to
existing owners would be within the range 25-75%, depending upon the
relative market values of undeveloped and developed land.



- 18 -
developing the exempt area). 1/ During project execution the experience of
using this policy for such a large scale project will be closely monitored and
the results will enable Government to determine whether the percentage of land
returned under the exemption provision should be changed for future develop-
ments. LDA declared the site a controlled area in 1979 and has compiled a
registry of existing owners.   The owners have been notified of LDA's inten-
tion to acquire the site under the 1973 Act and LDA has obtained formal
Government clearance for the project from the Governor of the Punjab and is
proceeding with land acquisition.
2.20      Description of Site.  The site comprises 224 hectares and includes
some 15 hectares of existing development. It extends northwards from the
existing Gujjarpura neighborhood for a distance of some 2.25 km to the Mahmood
Booti Bund Road which forms its northern boundary. It is generally flat and
low lying, and is bisected by the Chotta Ravi Drain, recently improved by WASA
under Cr. 630-PAK. The invert levels of the drain are such that flood
storage will be provided on-site for use when the drain is under bankfull
conditions and the site unable to drain naturally. An existing 54" diameter
sewer runs along the Southwestern boundary of the site outfalling by way of a
new 60" diameter sewer, now being commissioned, to the Shad Bagh Sewage Pump-
ing Station to the West. A new large diameter trunk water main crosses the
site, and tubewells in the nearby wellfield to the East are already opera-
tional. Electricity overhead lines exist on site and supply will be made
available from transformer stations incorporated into the layout. Gas can
be made available by Sui Northern Gas Pipelines. Principal access will
initially be from the Mahmood Booti Bund Road and the existing routes from
the South, the Grand Trunk Road and East (City Center) will be improved as
development proceeds. Employment opportunities exist close to the site and
additional work places will be created on site on the industrial plots and
in small scale enterprises that will be created on prime location and larger
plots.
2.21      Site Layout and Land Use.  The basic physical unit of the proposed
scheme is the Koocha. The physical design of the Koocha is based on the
organization of urban space observed in traditional areas in Lahore (e.g.,
in the Walled City) and the marginal settlements of spontaneous informal
growth (Katchi Abadi). The spine street of the Koocha forms the principal
element and provides access to the galis (lanes)--semi private space. In
traditional use, galis perform a number of other functions apart from pro-
viding access to the individual houses. A cluster of Koochas makes up the
basic neighborhood (Mohalla). The definition of individual Mohallas (neigh-
borhoods) is more diffused. The center of a Mohalla is formed by the location
1/   The cost of developing exempt land could be regarded as a cost of acquir-
ing the non-exempt land. In most sites and services projects financed by
the Bank Group, the landowners who receive payment for land acquired for
the project are not treated as beneficiaries. In the Gujjarpura project
the particular method used to acquire the site has led to the inclusion
of exemptee plot owners as project beneficiaries.



- 19 -
of commercial/institutional activity which will occur on the main access
roads. Mohalla centers also contain institutional land use such as high
schoils, community centers, health facilities and accompanying neighborhood
comfm.Perce
2.22      Of the 224 hectares of land constituting the site, some 16 hectares
(7%) are allocated to major infrastructure works.  Of this about 6.5 hectares
stands already acquired for existing or planned elements like the Bund Road,
the Bhogiwal pumping station and the Chotta Ravi Drain. The remaining 207.5
hectares (93%) is available for on-site land use. Table IV-1 shows the land-
use allocation for the entire site.  Residential land use comprises 111.5
hectares (54%) of the on-site land use. A hierarchy of roads ranging from
district distributors with rights of way of 20 meters and carriageway widths
of 9 meters, down to galls with widths of 1.5 meters will give access to a
layolte of plots designed to make the most effective use of the land with
neighborhoods and communities forming traditional Mohalla and Koocha type
development. Many plots will have pedestrian access only, but no plot will
be more than 100 meters from a street capable of use by emergency and waste
collection vehicles. Primary road frontage will be provided for the larger
plots, and plots in prime locations where commercial and small industry can be
expected to be created. Provision is made in the layout for sites for schools,
community facilities, mosques and major public facilities which will include
a hospital and open market. Open space is generous due to the necessity of
having to provide space for flood storage near to the Chotta Ravi Drain. The
site will have full sewerage, and drainage will be provided by open channels
alonagside streets and along natural drainage routes. Controlled outlets to
the Chotta Ravi Drain will ensure that the latter will not flood the site.
Water supply will be achieved by mains in each street with block metering,
and electricity will be supplied by an overhead group system and, in an attempt
to reduce the running costs, metering will be by blocks rather than individual
meters. Gas mains will be provided in all streets serving exempted plots and
in streets serving prime location and industrial plots.
2.23      Plot Size qnd Plot Devplopment. 2  minimum of 4,140 plots with an
average area of 82 m  (max 150 m/min 72 m ) will be provided for the low
income beneficiaries (se5 para. 4.05), while 4,450 exempted plots will have
an average area of 136 m (max 418 /mie 122.5 m ). A further 125 plots having
an average area of approximately 250 m will be sold to private developers
for the building of walk-up flats with strip commerce on the ground floor.
Two large plots of 3,670 m  will be provided for flats to be byilt by private
enterprise. A total of 405 plots varying in size from 2,090 m to 203 m will
be provided for industry.
2.24      Buildings will not be constructed under the project on any plots.
However, investments from HBFC will be provided under the project to low
inccme beneficiaries to help finance on-plot development. Each plot will be
provided with individual water and sewer connections and access to drainage in
thae adjoinii-g street. The project will include overhead electricity lines to
allow easy connections, and in certain areas gas will be available. Street
lighting will be provided in all streets and solid waste bins sited so that
each plot will be within easy walking distance (50-100 m). The minimum plot



- 20 -
2
(72 m ) option, including a building investment of Rs 8,000 (US$615) would be
priced at Rs 10,000 (US$770) which is affordable by 90% of urban households.
2.25      Commercial and Industrial Plots.   Land for industry comprises
15.9 hectares--(7% of on-site land use) of the project site. Location of this
area is at the northern extremity of the site to adjoin the industrial land
use along the northern periphery of Northern Lahore. However, only about half
o5 this land is inte2ded for formal indust5ial use in plots of 5 kanals (2,090
m ), 2 kanals (836 m ), and 1 kanal (418 m ) accounting for 135 plots. The
other half includes 270 plots of 10 marlas (203.41 m ) each intended for
smaller informal establishments. Opportunities for household enterprises are
to be found within the residential areas. Loans for small enterprises would
be available under the ongoing Small Industries Project (Cr. 1113-PAK).
Subsectors to be assisted would include light engineering, mechanical work-
shops, carpet making units, small brick making plants and food processing
ventures.
2.26      Land allocation for commerce is 3.9 hectares, about 2% of on-site
land use. This is in addition to mixed commerce with residential land, and
the informal street or corner scale of commerce expected to arise spontaneously.
Provision has also been made for large paved pedestrian areas for informal
open air commerce. This has been included in open space shared as a common
facility by all beneficiaries.
2.27      Common Facilities.  The recreational area consists of 14.6 hectares,
made up of two elements. About 9.4 hectares is being proposed as recreational
space, spread over various locations over the site. The principal component
of this is a large family park located at the lowest point on the site. This
will also serve as a reservoir for excess runoff during heavy rains. The
remaining 5.3 hectares of land under recreation is being provided as paved
open space within the Koocha, which will function as play plots for small
children and as community space for social occasions.
2.28      Education and health facilities will occupy an area of 14.8 hectares.
Land for education comprises 11.2 hectares. There will be sites for 19
primary schools and sites for a further 10 primary schools which would be part
of secondary schools. Sites are provided for a total of 13 secondary schools,
as separate facilities for boys and girls, including a site for one vocational
school, which may have separate sections for boys and girls. Land has been
allocated for a hospital that will cater to the needs of Northern Lahore.
This land, comprising 3.6 hectares may be transferred at cost to the Health
Department, or to the private sector for development of a hospital.
2.29      A total of 1.5 hectares are being provided for community facilities
including allocations for community centers, dispensary, and a mosque.
Solid Waste Management
2.30      Initially, the project would seek to provide solid waste services
to those areas of the city not yet in receipt of such services and to improve
the level of service to the poorest, more densely populated areas where the
present level of service is low. Concurrently, small scale demonstrations of



- 21 -
improved waste storage and collection systems would be implemented in pilot
areas of the Walled City and in a modern colony to assist in preparing
proposals for the extension of the modes found most suitable to cover all
of the Walled City and other suitable areas of the city in a phased and
costed program.  Consultants have been appointed to augment the data already
in LMC's possession to examine in depth the present problems and deficiencies
in solid waste management and propose detailed solutions to these problems.
2.31      Provision would be made for the supply of about 50 tipping trucks
and 8 front end loaders for the collection, transportation and disposal of
wastes. These vehicles would double the capacity of LMC's existing fleet of
65 fixed chassis trucks, of which only 48 are serviceable. The project would
provide for transport for supervisory staff (15 vans/jeeps and 100 bicycles)
at all levels to improve efficiency and for 2,000 handcarts, improved brushes
and miscellaneous equipment for sweepers to increase productivity. The
project would also include civil works for upgrading vehicle workshops to
improve maintenance, for three zonal vehicle parks with first line servicing
equipment to improve vehicle utilization, for six large transfer stations so
that wastes collected in the city area by sweepers, bullock carts or other
short haul vehicles could be bulk loaded to more distant landfill sites and
for the provision of control points and access roads at such sites. Addi-
tional storage containers, both fixed and portable, would also be provided.
2.32      The project would include essential equipment to improve the LMC's
street maintenance services. LMC on its part will provide buildings and
staff to support a vehicle and plant maintenance program acceptable to IDA.
On the organization side, consultants (para 2.30) will assist LMC to improve
the organization and management of its solid waste and maintenance operations
and the implementation of recommendations arising from this study would be
completed during execution of the project (see para 5.21).
Studies, Technical Assistance and Training
2.33      Technical assistance and training are included under each of the
individual components above and described in detail in Annex VII. Rs 1.3
million is specifically provided for overseas and local training courses for
executing agency staff in urban planning. Further training is included under
each of the studies to be carried out by consultants; for example, the
consultancy assistance for final design and supervision of the sites and
services component includes training in project design and implementation.
2.34      In addition to the technical assistance and training included
under individual components, the project would include funds to prepare a
second urban project.



- 22 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, EXECUTION AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total project cost, including contingencies and taxes, is esti-
mated at Rs 312 million (US$24.0 million). Taxes and duties amount to about
Rs 12 million (US$0.9 million) and the foreign exchange component to Rs 66
million (US$5.0 million). Summary cost estimates are shown in Table II-1
(Chapter II) and detailed cost estimates in Annex I. Base costs are in
December 1982 prices. Cost estimates are based on:
(a) preliminary designs for the sites and services scheme;
(b) actual costs obtained from the pilot upgrading scheme in
the Walled City;
(c) recent quotations from suppliers for vehicles and
equipment; and
(d) current rates for consulting services in Pakistan.
3.02      Consultant services provided under the project are shown in the
detailed cost estimates in Annex VII. A total of 468 man-months of local
consultants and 10 man-months of foreign consultants would be provided at
a total cost of Rs 21.6 million (1982 prices).
3.03      A study of the organization, management and finances of the LDA and
the first stage of the solid waste management study is being financed under
Credit 630-PAK, as were the preparation studies for this project. The average
man-month cost for local consultants is Rs 43,500 (US$3,350), while the
average man-month cost of expatriate consultants, including salary, costs,
fees, international travel and subsistence is Rs 124,000 (US$9,500).
3.04      Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of base costs
for civil works and equipment, except for the Walled City upgrading component,
where the rate is 15%. Price contingencies take into account the projected
implementation schedule (Annex II-1) and the likely increases in construction
costs, materials and equipment during execution of the project. For interna-
tionally procured equipment, the following rates have been used: 1983, 8%;
1984, 7.5%; 1985, 7.0%; and 1986, 6.0%. Rates for civil works, locally
procured equipment, and consulting services are as follows: 1983, 8.5%; 1984,
8.0%; 1985, 7.5%; 1986, 7.0%; and 1987, 6.0%.



- 23 -
B. Execution
3.05     The schedule for consultants to prepare final design and tender docu-
ments for the sites and services, upgrading and solid waste components is shown
in the implementation schedule in Annex II. It is envisaged that the work in
the Walled City would commence in the second quarter of 1983 and that the first
contract for the trunk infrastructure of the sites and services scheme would be
let in the first quarter of 1984. Physical works for the solid waste management
component would also start early in 1984. The whole project would be imple-
mented in about four and a half years. The expected completion date is
December 31, 1987.
3.06      The agencies with prime responsibility for project execution would
be the LDA and LMC, while HBFC would administer investments under the project.
Other agencies, including WASA, WAPDA and Sui Gas would also be involved
in project design and implementation and would maintain those parts of the
completed project that fall within their jurisdiction. The responsibilities
of the various agencies are summarized below:
Component                          Executing Pgency
Project Implementation
Walled City upgrading                   LDA, in liaison with LMC, WASA
and WAPDA
Gujjarpura Sites and Services           LDA, in liaison with WASA, WAPDA,
Sui Gas and LMC
Solid Waste Management                  LMC
Studies                                 LDA
Maintenance:
Streets                                 LMC
Water, Sewerage and Drainage            WASA
Electricity                             WAPDA
Gas                                     Sui Gas
C. Financing
3.07      The project would be financed by the GOP, LDA, LMC and IDA as shown
in the accompanying flow of funds diagram (Chart III-1) and summarized in
Table III-1 below.



- 24 -
Table III-1: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Government  LDA   LMC   IDA    Total
------- (Rs million)
Walled City
Solid Waste                            1        -      -     1        2
Civil works upgrading                 17        -      -    14       31
Loans for house reconstruction        -         -      -    20       20
Conservation plan                      -        -      -     2        2
Design, and supervision,
community development,
monitoring and evaluation
and training                        -         -      -     5        5
Subtotal                   18        -      -    42       60
Gujjarpura Expansion Area
Land                                   -        8      -     -        8
Infrastructure and Civil Works        -        46      -    87      133
House building investments             -        -      -    35       35
Design and supervision,
community development,
monitoring and evaluation
and training                        -         -      -    13        13
Subtotal                    -       54      -   135       189
Solid Waste Management
Equipment                              -        -    13    27         40
Civil Works                            -        -    17      -        17
Studies                               -         -      -     4         4
Subtotal                    -        -    30    31         61
Studies                                     -         2     -      -        2
Total                      18       56    30   208        312
3.08      The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 million (Rs 208 million) would
be used to finance 69% of project costs net of taxes and duties.  The credit
would cover 100% of estimated foreign exchange costs (US$5.0 million) and 58%
of local costs.  An amount of Rs 155 million from the proceeds of the IDA
credit would be made available by GOP to the HBFC under a subsidiary invest-
ment agreement to finance 65% of land and infrastructure development for the
LDA's Gujjarpura Expansion Area Project, 100% of low income housing invest-
ments in Gujjarpura and of house reconstruction investments to residents of
the Walled City upgrading area. LDA would finance 35% of the Gujjarpura
Expansion Area Project, for land and infrastructure, from its own resources.
The rest of the IDA credit (Rs 53 million) and the GOP contribution of
Rs 18 million would be made available to the implementing agencies (LDA and
LMC) through the Punjab Government (GOPUN) Annual Development Program (ADP);
GOPUN would allocate these Rs 71 million from its ADP to LDA for the Walled



- 25 -
Chart II-1
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Funds, Rupees Million
Federal Gov't.  |1
FedernlmGevt.     18           Part of ADP  71
~~~~~~Government  18 _
--<IF-  ~~~~IDA   208
LDA          56
LMC          30
TI | otal Sources    312
Loan to
HBFC     155
HBFC                    I                                                 Govtt. of Punjab
a) Investment to LDA                                                               Grants to LDA and
for area develop-                                                               LMC for:
;H4       ment              100                                                           a)  Walled City       40
b) Investments to bene-                                                            b)  Solid Waste       31
ficiaries for:
(i) house bldg.                                                                 TOTAL                 71
in Gujjarpura 35
(ii) house recon-
struction in
the Walled
City           201
TOTAL                155
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               MC
L D A                                                                           L M C
Guijarpura Sites                                                                   Solid Waste
and Services:                                                           L           Management:
Infrastructure                                                                     Civil works and
(LDA)              54 < --                                                          equipment
>    Infrastructure                                                                       (LMC)               30
(HBFC)            100                                                             Equipment and Studies
Bldg. Investments                                                                   (GOPUN)             31
(HBFC)_L           35
X             Total            189
Walled City:                                  _________
Infrastructure    40
>   House Reconst.
Investmts. CEBFC )J 20
Total            60
Studies             2
TOTAL             251                          Total Uses 312                      TOTAL               61
1/ Used by low-income beneficiaries.



- 26 -
City infrastructure upgrading (Rs 40 million) and Rs 31 million to LMC for 51%
of the cost of the solid waste management component.  LMC would finance the
remaining 49% of the solid waste management component from its own resources.
Relending Terms
3.09      The terms and conditions of the Federal Government's subsidiary
investment with HBFC (Rs 155 million) envisage an onlending rate of 8.5% per
annum plus a charge of 0.5% per annum to cover the foreign exchange risk.
HBFC would invest the Rs 155 million as follows:
(a)  with LDA for area development of the Gujjarpura expansion scheme,
an amount of Rs 100 million on a profit sharing basis having a
return of at least 12% per annum and with a three year grace
period and repayment of principal and profits over a period of
three years;
(b) with beneficiaries for house reconstruction in the Walled City
an amount of Rs 20 million repayable over a period of up to
20 years on the HBFC's current income sharing basis (see
para 5.25); and
(c) with beneficiaries for house building investmenta in the
Gujjarpura sites and services scheme, Rs 35 million on the same
basis as (b) above.
3.10      Repayments of principal to HBFC from the ultimate beneficiaries
would be retained by HBFC in a revolving fund for reinvestment in similar
projects (para 5.26).  Assurances to this effect and regarding the terms of
the subsidiary investment to HBFC and HBFC's onlending terms were obtained
during negotiations. The execution of onlending agreements between the
Government of Pakistan and HBFC and between HBFC and LDA would be special
conditions of credit effectiveness.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.11      Goods, equipment and materials financed under the project would
be grouped to the extent practicable to attract competitive bidding. Major
contracts for the sites and services development in the Gujjarpura Expansion
Area are expected to be let on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. It is estimated that three civil
works contracts for trunk infrastructure, total value Rs 72 million (US$5.5
million), would be necessary to allow for phasing of on-and-off-site construc-
tion works. LDA's consultants will review the packaging of these contracts
and the packaging of design/build contracts for on-plot development (total
value Rs 61 million; US$4.6 million) and advise on the most appropriate
grouping for procurement. Since the design/build contracts are likely to be
small and not attractive to international contractors, they may be let on
the basis of local competitive bidding. The consultants are also to advise on
the practical size for each contract relative to phasing, definition of



- 27 -
performance specifications, and proposals, which must be acceptable to LDA and
IDA for evaluating qualitatively and quantitatively bids for design-build
contracts.
3.12      Civil works for LMC's solid waste management component will
consist of a number of small contracts (maximum Rs 5 million or US$400,000
each, totalling Rs 17 million or US$1.3 million) which would be unlikely to
interest foreign contractors and would be let on the basis of Local Competi-
tive Bidding procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Construction in the
Walled City upgrading (Rs 7 million or US$0.5 million) would be undertaken by
LDA using contract labor (force account) and disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure. The use of force account labor is proposed
for this component based on the experience of the pilot scheme and is due to
the difficulties of planning and scheduling the work in the narrow confines
of the Walled City and finding contractors willing to undertake such work at
competitive prices. LDA's direct involvement will also help ensure the
necessary community participation.
3.13      Procurement of major equipment for the solid waste component
(Rs 37 million or US$2.8 million) would be through ICB. Imported materials
for the Walled City upgrading (Rs 5 million or US$0.4 million) would be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding, since procurement would be spread
over three years, materials are available locally and individual quantities
purchased would be small. Locally produced materials such as bricks, sewer-
pipes, sand and cement, would be purchased by local shopping (Rs 19 million
or US$1.5 million). Small items of equipment for the solid waste component
(handcarts, etc.; Rs 4 million or US$0.3 million) and for the executing
agencies (vehicles and office equipment; Rs 2 million or US$0.15 million)
would be purchased by local shopping.
3.14      In summary, contract values for the various procurement procedures
are expected to be as follows:
US$ Million
(a) Civil works
(i)  international competitive bidding               5.5
(ii)  local competitive bidding                       5.9
(iii)  force account                                   0.5
(b) Equipment, goods, materials
(i)  international competitive bidding               2.8
(ii)  local competitive bidding                       0.4
(iii)  local shopping                                  1.9
3.15      House building investments, amounting to Rs 35 million (US$2.7
million) in the sites and services area and house reconstruction investments
amounting to Rs 20 million (US$1.5 million) in the Walled City, would be
awarded to beneficiaries through the HBFC.  Consultant and training services
amounting to Rs 25 million (US$1.9 million) would be procured individually by
the agencies responsible for implementation of the respective project com-
ponents on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.



- 28 -
Disbursements
3.16      The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against
standard documentation as follows:
(a) civil works: 55%
(b) vehicles, equipment and materials:
(i)  directly imported, 100% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) locally manufactured, 100% of local expenditures,
ex-factory; and
(iii) other locally procured vehicles, equipment and mate-
rials (off-the-shelf-procurement) 65% of total costs;
(c) consultants' services and training; 100%, and
(d) investments with beneficiaries in the Walled City for house
reconstruction and improvement and for house construction in
Gujjarpura, 100% of amounts onlent by HBFC.
3.17      Reimbursement for the housing investments would be claimed on the
basis of a certified statement of expenditures which would include a list of
loans disbursed during the reporting period and evidence of disbursements by
the relevant agency. Other documentation relating to the loans would be
retained in one central location and made available to IDA staff for review
on request during supervision mission. Disbursements for civil works on
force account would also be made against statements of expenditure certified
by the project manager. All other disbursements would be fully documented in
accordance with standard IDA procedures.
3.18      To maintain the momentum of project preparation, retroactive finan-
cing not exceeding US$1.0 million is recommended for project related expendi-
tures for (a) consulting services for final design of the sites and services
component and (b) implementation of the first part of the Walled City upgrading
scheme. These items would be procured in accordance with IDA requirements.
3.19      The Regional disbursement profile for the urban sector indicates
disbursements covering a six year period. For this project the disbursement
period is estimated at five years due to (a) the design-build approach adopted
for the sites and services component, (b) the advanced state of preparation
of the Walled City upgrading component, and (c) the fact that IDA funds for
the solid waste component will be mainly disbursed against equipment, which
can be rapidly procured. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Table
III-2.



- 29 -
Table III-2: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending       Disbursements      Disbursements
(US$ '000)          (US$ '000)
84            September 30, 1983             -                   -
December 31, 1983            400                 400
March 31, 1984               500                 900
June 30, 1984                600              1,500
85            September 30, 1984           700              2,200
December 31, 1984            900              3,100
March 31, 1985             1,100               4,200
June 30, 1985              1,200              5,400
86            September 30, 1985         1,300               6,700
December 31, 1985          1,400              8,100
March 31, 1986             1,300               9,400
June 30, 1986              1,200             10,600
87            September 30, 1986         1,100             11,700
December 31, 1986          1,000             12,700
March 31, 1987               900             13,600
June 30, 1987                800             14,400
88            September 30, 1987           600             15,000
December 31, 1987            500             15,500
March 31, 1988               250             15,750
June 30, 1988                250             16,000
E. Accounts and Audits
3.20      Both LDA and LMC will maintain separate project accounts and each
of these agencies will prepare quarterly progress reports, including project
financial statements for submission to IDA not later than six weeks after the
end of each quarter. LDA and LMC will prepare an annual report, including
financial statements for the project, audited by auditors acceptable to IDA,
for submission to IDA no later than six months after the close of each
financial year. Not later than six months after the close of each financial
year suitable financial information, including cash flow statements and
balance sheets as of the year end, accompanied by a report on the accounts
and statements by an auditor acceptable to IDA, will be submitted to IDA by
HBFC for the whole of its activities as well as for the project. The current
practice of this institution makes it relatively easy for it to comply with
this requirement. The statements of expenditure for housing investments



- 30 -
by HBFC and civil works carried out under force account by LDA will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. For this purpose, a
copy of each such statement of expenditures would be furnished to the auditors
by HBFC and LDA. A copy of each audit report would be furnished to IDA on
semi-annual basis.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.21       In view of the innovative nature of some of the project components,
the impact of the project upon beneficiaries will be monitored to test the
response to the various options available under the sites and services and
upgrading schemes. Monitoring and evaluation will be financed under the
project and will be the responsibility of the LDA, which will include in its
quarterly progress reports key indicators of the extent to which the project
is meeting its objectives.
G. Supervision
3.22      About 90 staff weeks of IDA supervision would be required, spread
evenly over the project implementation period.
IV. COST RECOVERY, AFFORDABILITY AND BENEFICIARY SELECTION
4.01      Cost recovery sources for project components would be as follows:



- 31 -
Component                           Recovery Source
(a) Walled City:
(i)  On-site infrastructure (includ-        Connection fees, water
ing design and supervision)           and sewerage charges and
increase in property taxes.
(ii)  Solid waste collection service        Municipal taxes.
(iii) Investments for house reconstruc-
tion                                  Repayments to HBFC
(iv) Upgrading of schools and community
facilities                            Not recovered.
(v) Conservation plan and community
development                           Not recovered.
(b) Gujjarpura Sites and Services:
(i)  Land and on-site infrastructure,    Sale of plots.
including design and supervision
(ii)  Off-site roads                        Partly through Municipal
taxes.
(iii)  Housing investments                    Repayments to HBFC.
(iv)  Training and technical assistance   Not recovered.
(c)  Solid Waste Management                      Municipal taxes.
(d)  Studies                                     Not recovered.
4.02      About 73% of total project costs would be recovered directly
from beneficiaries, through plot charges and sale of plots in Gujjarpura
and through connection fees, investment repayments and the increase in
assessable annual rental values resulting from the improvements in the Walled
City to be effected under the project, which will produce an increase in
property tax and related revenues to the LMC and WASA.
4.03      The costs of developing the Gujjarpura Expansion Area would be
recovered by LDA through (a) the sale of plots to low income beneficiaries;
(b) the sale of commercial, industrial and some residential plots at market
prices; and (c) through development charges for the exempted area set aside
for existing landowners. As low income residential plots become available they



- 32 -
will be allotted to beneficiaries, who will have been selected on the basis of
criteria acceptable to IDA (see para 4.08 below). Title for the plot will
pass to the beneficiary on allotment on his making a 15% downpayment to LDA
and the remainder would be payable over up to 2 years. The price of the plot
will include the cost of land and development charges, 1/ adjusted by differ-
ential pricing within the scheme. The surplus from the Gujjarpura expansion
scheme, estimated to be about Rs 73 million in 1980 prices after deducting
cross subsidies to low income group beneficiaries of Rs 8 million, would be
used by LDA to finance similar projects elsewhere in Lahore (see Table IV-1)
and by HBFC for similar projects in Pakistan. House building investments in
Gujjarpura, and house improvement investments in the Walled City, would be
repaid by beneficiaries over a period of up to 20 years under the HBFC's
profit sharing scheme (see Annex VI). The effective rate of interest under
the scheme is currently 7% for the first three years of repayments, but may
increase thereafter as properties are revalued and is likely to exceed the
forecast rates of inflation, which decline from 8.5% in 1983 to 6% in 1987.
4.04      In the Walled City upgrading area, investments with beneficiaries
for house reconstruction would be recovered by HBFC. The cost of improvements
to the water distribution network and the cost of sewer installation would be
recovered through connection fees, water and sewerage tariffs and, together
with the cost of improvement to footpaths, electricity supply and street
lighting and solid waste collection, through increases in property tax
resulting from reassessment of the annual rental values (ARVs) of properties
affected, which would be reassessed to reflect the value of the improvements
carried out. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, during implemen-
tation of the Walled City upgrading, GOPUN and LDA will review the upward
revaluation of ARVs to ensure that the resulting increase in taxes is suffi-
cient to recover the costs of the improvements carried out. The reassessment
of ARVs will also increase water and sewerage tariffs, which are based on ARVs.
A. Affordability and Income Distribution
4.05      Table IV-1 shows the land use, plot options, monthly charges and
percentiles reached in the Gujjarpura sites and services scheme. Surveys
in Lahore have indicated that the low-income groups devote from 18 to 25%
of their income to shelter and these are the percentages that have been used
to calculate the affordability of the proposed sites and services scheme.
The cheapest plot option, including a building investment, would be affordable
to households with income ranging from the 12th to 20th percentile of the
urban income distribution. All of the low-income plots would be affordable
to beneficiaries with incomes below the urban poverty threshold (45th per-
centile, Rs 850 per month).
1/   Development charges are payable by both existing landowners and low-
income beneficiaries and include the cost of on-site infrastructure,
design and supervision and interest during construction.



IAEBLE  IV-1    LAHORE: GUJJARPURA  LAND USE, COSTS, AFFORDABILITY AND CROSS SUBSIDY    JANUARY 10 1983
LAND USE                           LAND    REALLOCATION    LAND    LAND  INFRAST  TOTAL
LAND USE        M2   '. OF       % OF   X OF    COST  COMMUN   ON SITE  COST    COST    COST    COST
000))   TOTAL  USABLE RESIDENT RS.MN  FACILITY INFRAST RECOVER PER M2  PER M2  PER M2
LciW INCOME BENEFICIARIES  335.69   15.02   22.96   30.12    1.84    0.26    0.51    2.61    7.76   54. 00   61.378
RESIDENTIAL MARKET SALES   38.01    1.70    2.60    3.41   0.21    0.03    0.06    0.30    7.76   62.00   69.78
COMMERCIAL PLOTS          36.97    1.74    2.67              0.21            0.06    0.27    7.(0   62.00   69. 00
INDUJSTRIAL PLOTS         159.42    7.13   10.91             0.67             0.24    1.12    7.00   62.00   69.00
AREA OF EDUCATION&HEALTH  147.93    6.62   10.13              0.81            0.22    1.03    7.00   62.00   69. 00
EXEMPTEES                 591.61   26.47   40.50   53.08 EXEMPT       0.47    0.90    1.36    2.30   62.00   64.30
EXISTING HOUSING           149.19    6.67   10.21   13.39EXISTING    0.12    0.23    0.34    2.30   62.00   64.30
lOTAL  USABLE   1460.82   65.35  100.00  100.00    3.95    0.88    2.21    7.04    4.82
ROADS:
A.ON SITE        361.70   16.16                      1.98            1.98
EB.EXISTINB       49.73    2.22                 EXISTING
C.OFF SITE       118.27    5.29                     0.53  NOT RECOVERED
SUBTOTAL  529.70   23.70                     2.51
DRAINAGE
A.ON SITE         42.36    1.89                     0.23             0.23
B.0FF SITE        42.36    1.69                    OWNED
SUBTOTAL   64.72    3.79                     0.23
COMMUNITY FACILITIES        14.49    0.65                     0.08    0.06
OFEN SPACE                145.70    6.52                      0.80    0.80                                                     W
TOTAL    2235.43  100. 00                    7.56
LOW     INCOME  BENEFICIARIES   AFFORDABILITY                     OTHERS
ORD PLOT GALIS  SPINE A SPINE B PRIME LC TOTAL  EXISTING EXEMPT MARKET  COMMERCE INDUST ED&<HEALT
PLOT SIZE 4M2)     72.00   90.00   90.00  108.00  150.00            200.00  136.00  305.00  182.00  394.00 4931.00
PLOI NOS         2783.00  721.00  363.00   79.00  195.00 4141.00  746.00 4350.00  125.00  213.00  405.00   30.00
TOTAL AREA 0001M2  200.38   64.89   32.67    8.53   29.25  335.72  149.20  591.60   38.13   38.77  159.57  147.93
COST FER M2        61.78   61.78   61.78   61.76   61.78             64.30   64.30   69.7    69?.00   69.00   69.00
FLOT COST RS     4448.41 5560.51 5560.51 6672.61 9267.51           12860.7 8745.26 21263.9 12557.2 27184.3  340216
SALE PRICE RS    2000. 00 40ttO:.00 4500.00 5500.00 9267.51          14340 9750.00  218750  152280   60140  340216
COtJNECTION FEES   100.O0  100.00  100.00  100.00  IOC0.0o          555.00  555.00  555.00  555.00  555.00  555.00
TOT-AL PRICE RS   2100.00 4100. 00 4600.00 5600.00 9367.51           14895   10305  219305  152835  6s695  340773
DUILDINGN LOAN RS 80oo.o0 8000).00 6000.0C0 8000.00 so oooo.oo
MON rHLY PAYMENT   1 01.OC  121.00  126.00  136.00  173.68
MIII N; OF I1NCOME    18.0o   18.(00   18. 00   18.00   20.00
MAX ' OF INCOME    22.001  22.0C1   22.00   22.00   25.00
MIt INC:lNME R6   459.119  550. 00  572.73  618.18  694.70
MAX INCOME RS     561.11 672.22  700.00  755.56  868.38
MINl PERCENTILE    12.00   20.00)  22.00   25.00   35.00
t1AX FERCEN I FILE  20.00  3-4. 00   35. 00   37.00   45.00
CROSS   SUBSIDY  (RS.MILLION)
TDWAL LOST         12.38    4.01    2.02    0.53    1.81   20.74    9.59   38.04    2.66    2.67   11.01   10.21
SALES REVENUE       5.57    2.88    1.63    0.43    1.81   12.33   1 0.70   42.41   27.34  Z32.44   32.46   10.21
SURPLIJS/DlEF- ICITl  --6.81   -1.1 -.  zs  --0.09     (W.)00  --8.42    1.1(1   4.37   24.68   29.76   21.45   (). 00
NET 51 IRPFUI-i                                                                                                72.95



- 34 -
4.06      In the Walled City the increase in property tax assessments result-
ing from the rise in average annual rental values would range from about Rs
20-30 per month per household, which would be affordable to 95% of the Walled
City households (on the basis of 5% of household income being available to
repay costs of improvements).
4.07      Income distributions are shown in Chart IV-1.
B. Beneficiary Selection
4.08      LDA would have responsibility for selection of beneficiaries
in the site and service area. Beneficiary selection criteria will include
the income of beneficiaries and correspond to the percentage ranges in
Table IV-l. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the selection
criteria adopted will be satisfactory to IDA. Agreement was also obtained
during negotiations on the principles to be incorporated in the sales con-
tracts between LDA and beneficiaries.
4.09      In the Walled City 50% of the beneficiaries residing in the project
areas are within the urban poverty group. Infrastructure benefits will be
equally distributed to all income groups within the project area.
V. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Project Organization
5.01      Responsibility for implementation of the project will be with LDA
and LMC for their respective components, while investments with beneficiaries
will be provided through HBFC. LDA will undertake the upgrading of the
Walled City, the Gujjarpura sites and services and the technical assistance
relating to these components as well as project monitoring and evaluation and
preparation of the second urban project. LMC will undertake the solid waste
improvement component together with the studies related to this component.
Coordination between these two bodies will be achieved through the existing
LMC/LDA coordination committee at the official level, and at the working
level through a working group already formed by the Chief Metropolitan
Planner, LDA, and the Chief Corporation Officer, LMC. HBFC would be respon-
sible for the provision of an investment to LDA for area development in the
Gujjarpura expansion area and for house building ftinds to the low-income
beneficiaries in the sites and services area and in the Walled City (house
reconstruction).



CHART IV-1
- 35 -
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
lOC
BNi~~~~~~ .,.
90-
(b)
80 
70-
(c)
60
o a -
0
ol                                     I
50
20
5)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jd
(c) Gujjarpura Sites and Services, Low Income Beneficiaries
Income Distribution (1980)
(d) Urban Poverty Level (1980)                       World Bank -23183
September 1981



- 36 -
5.02      Maintenance of project components will be the responsibility of the
agencies normally concerned with maintenance in the LMA. LMC will be respon-
sible for maintenance of streets in the Walled City and sites and services
components and will improve its street maintenance capability under the project
to meet the obligation. LMC will also maintain the investments made under
the solid waste component. WASA will be responsible for supply of water and
operation and maintenance of sewerage and drainage services in the upgraded
parts of the Walled City and in the sites and services area. WAPDA will be
responsible for supply of electric power to the Walled City upgrading area
and the sites and services area and for the maintenance of electrical instal-
lations in these areas, except for street lighting, which will be maintained
by LMC. WASA and WAPDA will liaise with LDA project staff during design and
implementation to ensure agreement on standards of design and completed works.
Garbage collection in both the sites and services area and the Walled City
will be the responsibility of LMC.
5.03      Serviced plots of land in the sites and services area that are
reserved for schools, hospitals, health centers and community centers will
be sold to the appropriate authorities. Maintenance of upgraded schools in
the Walled City will be the responsibility of the Department of Education.
B. The Lahore Development Authority
5.04      The LDA replaced the Lahore Improvement Trust (LIT) in 1975.  LDA
is an autonomous body under the Department for Housing and Physical Planning
(Government of Punjab), governed by the Lahore Development Authority Act
1975. The Authority consists of nine members, in addition to the Chairmen
of Municipal Committees, the Director General LDA, the Managing Director of
WASA, and two members of the Provincial Assembly. The chief executive is
the Director General and the Chairman is the Governor of the Punjab.
5.05      LDA has the authority to create agencies--as has been done in the
case of WASA, which is an autonomous agency but under the same Board as LDA.
Functions and Organization
5.06      The LDA has responsibility for development planning and implemen-
tation, including roads, land development and housing. In addition, it also
has a large horticulture department, which is responsible for the maintenance
of the many parks and gardens for which Lahore is famous. It is indirectly
involved in water supply, drainage and sewerage through WASA. LDA is also
responsible for the formulation of building regulations.
5.07      The legal framework under which the LDA acquires land is essen-
tially the Land Acquisition Act of 1894, modified in 1973, which allows the
authority to enter an area while the acquisition procedure is still going on;
the Punjab Housing Scheme 1973 "Punjab Acquisition of Land"; and Martial Law
Instruction August 1977.



- 37 -
5.08      Under the present organization structure the Director General LDA
is the head of nine sections under the Chief Metropolitan Planner, the Chief
Engineer, the Director Land Development, the Town Planner, the Director Estate
Management, the Director Katchi Abadis, the Director Administration, the
Director Finance and the recently created post of Director of Coordination and
Implementation. The organization structure has been reviewed by consultants
appointed to study the LDA's organization, management and finances and the
consultants' recommendations are currently being considered by LDA management.
5.09      The project has been prepared by a team of professionals under the
Chief Metropolitan Planner. This team, which consists at present of an urban
planner, a traffic engineer, a civil engineer, an architect, an economist and
two sociologists with a dozen support staff and draftsmen, has the assistance
of engineering staff from WASA. Final design of project components and pre-
paration of tender documents are being carried out by the project preparation
team, with the assistance of a local consulting firm in the case of the sites
and services component.
Performance
5.10      Since 1947, a total of approximately 2,144 hectares have been
developed by LIT and LDA. In recent years development has averaged about
15,000 plots annually. A review of project time spans shows that projects
tend to stretch over at least seven years. The very long time span is partly
due to cumbersome procedures, responsible for at least three years in the
present method of work. To help meet the demand for serviced sites--20,000
to 25,000 annually--LDA needs to significantly increase its output of develop-
ed land and to encourage private sector participation in urban development.
5.11      In addition to its normal functions of planning and development LDA
has carried out an important slum upgrading program over the past 3 years,
improving conditions and providing security of tenure to some quarter of a
million people in 30 Katchi Abadis. So far this program has concentrated
on slums on public land. Costs of providing infrastructure are recovered
from beneficiaries in exchange for provision of security of tenure. The next
stage of the program will address the problems of upgrading slums on private
land.
Finance
5.12      Summary financial statements for LDA are shown in Table V-i.
The major sources of revenue are development projects and ADP allocations,
the latter, including road works and Katchi Abadi upgrading. In the past, the
LDA's financial position has been affected by delays in project completion and
delays in selling land according to its timetable.



- 38 -
Table V-1: LDA - SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Millions Rupees)
-----------Actual---------------        Budget
1979-80      1980-81      1981-82       1982-83
Revenues:
Capital & General Revenues         44.6        43.2          45.1         52.6
ADP Allocation                    105.9        24.8          49.5         59.0
Development Funds of LDA          157.8       177.7         253.6        281.6
Other                              20.8         5.0          17.8         26.2
Total                             329.1       250.7         366.0        419.4
Expenditures
Administration & Operations        51.7       102.1          55.3         76.1
ADP Financed Projects             148.9        78.5          66.2         83.4
LDA Financed Projects             117.4       165.2         215.2        237.2
Other                              15.7         5.4          15.5         15.0
Total                             333.7       351.2         352.2        411.7
Surplus/(deficit)                  (4.6)    (100.5)          13.8          7.7
5.13      The single entry accounting system maintained by LDA provides
insufficient information for sound management decisions and gives no picture
of assets and liabilities. The report of the organization, management and
finance (OMF) study has recommended that LDA should adopt a double entry
bookkeeping system and should also be subject to independent audit by a firm
of Chartered Accountants. The OMF Study was completed in 1982 and is being
followed by a second stage in which consultants are implementing the agreed
recommendations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
recommendations, including adoption of a double entry bookkeeping system and
independent audit, will be implemented during execution of the project.
5.14      Under the proposed project LDA will provide funding of Rs 56 mil-
lion from its own resources. This amount would represent less than 10% of
LDA's own development projects over the three year period and should therefore
be within LDA's financial resources. LDA will use the surplus generated by
the sites and services component (about Rs 119 million in current prices after
repayment of HBFC's principal and share of profit; see Annex III-4) to finance
similar sites and services projects for low income beneficiaries elsewhere in
Lahore, in accordance with current practice.



- 39 -
C. The Lahore Municipal Corporation
5.15      The Lahore Municipal Corporation (LMC) operates according to the
Punjab Local Government Act 1975, revised in 1979. It is an autonomous body
under the Secretariat of Local Government and Rural Development (Government
of Punjab). Since the local elections held in November 1979, the LMC has
been directed by the elected Mayor and Council of 110 members.
Functions and Organization
5.16      The responsibilities of the LMC are to provide certain urban services
to the inhabitants of the municipal area, including: (a) maintenance, repair,
and construction of roads and streets; (b) control of encroachments; (c) fire
fighting; (d) provision and maintenance of street lights, traffic signals and
road signs; (e) primary education; (f) maintenance of open drains; (g) health
and sanitation, including solid waste collection and disposal; (h) recreation
(parks) and social welfare.
5.17      There are seven branches shown in the function oriented organization
chart of LMC with:
-  The Chief Officer (in charge of the administration of personnel
and of the secretariat).
-  Chief Engineer (in charge of fire fighting, street lighting,
roads, construction works, building control, parks).
-  The Education Officer (in charge of the administration of LMC
schools and other educational matters).
-  The Medical Officer (in charge of public health measures,
administration of medical establishments and solid waste
collection).
-  Social Welfare and Public Relations Officer (in charge of the
administration of the welfare establishments and publications).
-  The Chief Accounts Officer.
-  The Taxation Officer.
Finance
5.18      The LMC presents a budget by April 1 of each year for the Council's
approval. As can be seen from Table V-2, Octroi Tax accounts for 60-70% of
the LMC's income. The second largest income source is taxes and fees of which
about 75% is derived from property tax. Since GOPUN took over the responsi-
bility for collecting this tax in 1975, the LMC has benefitted considerably
from the improved collection results (GOPUN retains 15% and LMC and WASA
split the balance, receiving 42.5% each). Many of the LMC's tax rates,



- 40 -
including Octroi and license fees are several years old, and there is no
procedure within LMC for periodic updating of these taxes. Octroi, however,
displays a natural buoyancy as trade increases. Property values are reassessed
every five years and the 1980/81 reassessment has more than doubled revenues
from this source in 1982/83.
5.19      The major expense for LMC is sanitation (mainly solid waste collec-
tion) which has recently risen to about one third of total expenditure. Under
the project assistance to LMC would focus on this activity. The other main
items of expenditure are schools, roads and drainage. On average, about 50%
of LMC's budget is spent on capital development, mainly on civil works for
drainage, roads and schools, and on equipment for solid waste collection.
5.20      The total budget income for fiscal year 1983 is forecast at Rs 292.2
million (US$22.5 million). The anticipated participation in the project by
LMC of Rs 30 million (US$2.3 million) over three years would represent only
3% per year of LMC's current budget income.
5.21      LMC would be responsible for implementing the solid waste and
municipal maintenance components of the project. Consultants have recently
been appointed for further preparation and final designs of these components.
LMC has appointed a project director for the solid waste management component.
Table V-2:  LMC - SUMMARY BUDGET STATEMENTS
(in million Rupees)
Actual                 Actual                       Budget
1978/79     %          1979/80       %          1982/83       %
Income
Octroi            109.9       62          137.0       67          187.6        64
Taxes and Fees    27.8        15          36.9        18           83.4        29
Grants             24.9       14            9.5        4            1.5         -
Other              15.9        9          21.1        11           19.7         7
Total Income      178.5      100         204.5       100          292.2       100
Expenses
Schools            24.7       14          28.0        14           47.7        16
Sanitation         48.0      27           53.4        26          102.7        35
Drainage           18.5       10          40.7        20           57.0        19
Roads              28.3       16          29.7        15           43.2        15
Other              56.0       31          54.1        26           73.8        25
Total Expenses   175.5        98         205.9       101          324.4       111
Net Surplus/
(Deficit)          3.0       2          (1.4)       (1)          (32.2)      (11)



- 41 -
D. The House Building Finance Corporation
5.22      The House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC), established in 1952,
is the only long-term housing finance institution in Pakistan. It is a para-
statal body with representatives of each of the provinces and the Federal
Government on its Board and its share capital owned entirely by GOP. Head-
quarters are in Karachi with 3 zonal offices, 13 regional offices and 28
district offices serving the entire country. Total staff numbers about
900 persons.
5.23      The primary objective of HBFC is to provide finance to individuals
for the construction or purchase of houses. It also finances housing develop-
ment projects by making investments with Development Authorities. Since its
inception, HBFC has advanced a total of Rs 4,550 million (US$350 million)
for the construction or reconstruction of some 380,000 units of residential
property. The vast majority of these were small investments (average value
Rs 1,560, US$120) for flood relief (280,000). Although there is no require-
ment for HBFC to distribute its investments in any particular ratio between
the provinces, they are in fact fairly evenly spread on the basis of popula-
tion.
5.24      The growth in HBFC's lending has been quite impressive in recent
years, averaging 35% per annum over the past four years. However, sources
of finance are entirely provided by GOP and the State Bank, HBFC merely
acting as an administrative on-lending agency for these funds. The demand
for HBFC investments is invariably greater than the supply available.
The lending program for 1982/83 amounts to Rs 850 million (US$65 million)
which, on the basis of the present average housebuilding investment size of
Rs 41,000, would be sufficient to advance about 20,000 investments.
5.25      In 1979 HBFC changed from a basis of interest charges for its
investments to a profit sharing basis in conformity with the Government's
policy of Islamization of the financial sector. Under the new system,
profits, or losses, are divided on a predetermined basis between HBFC and the
borrower, according to the assessed market rental value of the property. The
present level of profit sharing is equivalent to a nominal interest rate of
7%, although this is likely to be revised upwards as a result of property
revaluations which take place every three years. HBFC's current practice is
to provide funds to individual beneficiaries for a maximum of 15 years,
although it is empowered to extend this to 20 years. Investments with devel-
opment authorities for area development are for 3 years. A more detailed
description of HBFC's lending policy and finances is contained in Annex VI.
5.26      Under the proposed project HBFC would act as the financial inter-
mediary for Rs 155 million of IDA funds, part to be invested with the LDA for
development of the Gujjarpura sites and services project (Rs 100 million) and
part to be invested directly with low income project beneficiaries for house
reconstruction and improvement in the Walled City upgrading area (Rs 20 million,
see para. 3.09) and for house construction in the sites and services area
(Rs 35 million, see para 3.09). Repayments of these funds would be set aside



- 42 -
in a revolving fund by HBFC and used to finance future area development
projects for low income beneficiaries, the composition of these projects to
be mutually agreed between IDA and HBFC. This will help to provide a modest
start towards meeting the growing demand for urban services and shelter. It
is also to be hoped that during implementation of this project HBFC will
develop schemes, which are currently being investigated, to mobilize domestic
resources and overseas worker remittances as a source of finance for invest-
ment in urban development.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      The proposed project would represent an important step towards
strengthening the capacity of local institutions to undertake improved urban
planning and development projects in Lahore. The training and technical
assistance components of the project, coupled with the experience to be gained
from implementation of the physical components, are expected to enhance the
capability of the institutions responsible for urban planning, management and
finance. In particular, the organization management and finance (OMF) study
of the LDA, together with implementation of the recommendations arising
from this study, should result in a considerable improvement in the manage-
ment and efficiency of this institution. The solid waste management study for
LMC will help to improve efficiency in this important sector of municipal
operations. These studies can be expected to have extensive spin-off in
assisting other Development Authorities and municipalities to improve their
efficiency and management systems.
6.02      The direct benefits of the proposed project would be seen in:
(a)  the improved living environment and sanitary conditions of
some 50,000 persons in the Walled City upgrading area;
(b)  the provision of basic infrastructure and shelter services
to some 65,000 people in the sites and services area; and
(c)  citywide improvements in sanitary conditions through
improved garbage collection service.
6.03      These physical components would demonstrate the effectiveness and
replicability of programs involving appropriate design and planning standards
which are affordable to low-income beneficiaries and which thus achieve cost
recovery.
6.04      The economic rate of return for the upgrading and sites and services
components, representing 80% of project cost, is estimated at 20% (paras.
6.05 to 6.07). Rates of return were not computed for other project components
due to difficulties in quantifying their benefits. However, alternative
indicators of the economic merit of the solid waste management component are
discussed in para 6.08 below.



- 43 -
Sites and Services and Upgrading
6.05      The valuation of benefits in the sites and services area is based
upon imputed rental values for residential plots and market sale prices for
commercial, industrial and large residential plots. In the upgrading areas
benefit valuation was based upon estimates of increases in rental values
brought about by improvements made under the project. Rental values in the
project areas and in areas with similar location characteristics were obtained
through surveys carried out during project preparation. The following esti-
mates of rental values were used for calculation of benefits:
Before Project          After Project
Monthly room rentals:
(a) sites and services       not applicable           Rs 150
(b) upgrading                Rs 125                   Rs 175
6.06      The following project costs were included in the analysis (see
also Annex IV):
(a)  site development costs including land acquisition (for sites
and services scheme only), site preparation and on-site
infrastructure costs, the share of community facilities and
off-site infrastructure costs allocable to the project site,
administrative expenses, design and supervision and physical
contingencies;
(b)  on-plot development costs including costs of self-help build-
ing materials and related labor financed through building
loans and household savings; and
(c)  annual operation and maintenance costs estimated at 3% of
total development costs.
6.07      The sites and services and upgrading components would together
yield an estimated economic rate of return of 19.8%. Separately, the sites
and services scheme would have a return of 15.0% and the upgrading scheme
27.2%. Sensitivity analysis of the rates of return gave the following
results:
Cost plus     Cost less      Benefits    Benefits
10%            10%        plus 10%    less 10%
Sites and Services    10.8%          20.4%          19.9%        10.4%
Upgrading              24.3%         30.8%          30.4%        24.1%



- 44 -
Solid Waste Management
6.08      The quality of the environment in the city would be significantly
improved by the extended and improved garbage collection service proposed
under the project. The ability of the municipality to maintain the service
will be increased by the management reorganization and resource mobilization
following from the studies included under this component. Street maintenance
services will also be improved by the provision of equipment under the project.
The proposed solutions have been selected after comparison with more capital
intensive alternatives, and the least cost solutions with the higher propor-
tion of local materials and labor have been adopted. While the component
will benefit the whole of the city's population by improving health conditions,
it will mainly benefit the poorer sections of the community since the exten-
sions of service will be located primarily in lower income neighborhoods.
Replicability of Sites and Services and Walled City Upgrading
6.09      While the proposed project will increase the output of LDA Sites
and Services during the period, there will still remain a significant backlog
and demand for serviced land by the urban poor.
6.10      The annual demand for serviced land by the urban poor is estimated
at about 10,000 plots per year, about 45% of total annual new housing needs.
The Gujjarpura site will generate some 4,000 units that are affordable by the
urban poor. 1/ This will take approximately three years to complete, provid-
ing 1,330 units per year. In order to significantly increase the impact of
the LDA program on the urban poor, a substantial expansion of their current
program would be required in the next five years.
6.11      Replicability of such programs on a metropolitan scale is made pos-
sible by the overall surpluses generated by a project of this type which will
be channelized into similar projects (see Annex III-4). Both land acquisition
and development costs can be met from such a fund. The land acquisition
powers enjoyed by the LDA offer a unique opportunity to bring serviced land
and shelter within reach of income-groups otherwise priced out of the land
market. Surpluses generated from sale of some residential plots on the open
market, along with sales at market prices of industrial and commercial plots
allow a cross-subsidy 2/ to be provided to low-income groups to make prices of
plots compatible with their ability to make downpayments and monthly repayments.
6.12      The Walled City upgrading program will cost approximately Rs 3,000
(US$230) per household and monthly payments would amount to about Rs 30 per
month, which would be about 3% of the household monthly income (Rs 850) at the
urban poverty threshold. Such relatively low repayments provide a basis for
citywide replicability of basic services.
1/   Household income of Rs 850/month in December 1980.
2/   The cross-subsidy amounts to Rs 8.42 million (1980 prices, see Table
IV-1) or approximately Rs 2,030/plot on average.



- 45 -
Urban Poverty Impact
6.13      In the Walled City, 50% of the upgrading beneficiaries or 25,000
people, are in the urban poverty group. In the Gujjarpura sites and services
project, 45% of the residential lots (4,200) are affordable by the urban poor.
Sixty-five percent of the solid waste component is attributable to the urban
poverty group. Of the total project cost of US$24 million, 50% or US$12
million is attributable to the urban poverty group (Annex V). Urban poverty
sectoral indicators are shown in Annex V.
Project Risks
6.14      The main risks to the project are seen as arising from (a) the
severe manpower shortages resulting from the drain of human resources to
lucrative employment in the oil-rich countries of the Middle East, stemming
mainly from the very low professional and technical salaries that the local
implementing agencies are permitted to pay; and (b) the possibility of con-
tinued shortages in critical building materials such as cement and reinforcing
steel.
6.15      A great deal will depend on the ability of the implementing agencies
to mobilize competent teams to supervise and execute components of this proj-
ect. Experience during the initial preparation of this project has not been
impressive. However, from about the time of preappraisal late in 1980 and
subsequently, there has been new momentum and enthusiasm displayed through the
performance of Government agencies and their staff. The project has been
designed to minimize the potential risks inasfar as is practically possible,
through the integration of a selective and intensive training program with a
view to rapidly strengthening the institutional capacity of LDA and LMC,
particularly for middle-management roles, and through the use of consultants.
The introduction of the design-build approach for the Gujjarpura Expansion
Area has been particularly structured to utilize the motivation, ingenuity
and management capacity of the private sector to alleviate management and
material shortages.
6.16      In the longer term, the replicability of the project at the local
level is reasonably assured through the surplus generated to LDA from the
sites and services scheme and by the low costs of the other components,
coupled with increasing municipal revenues and cost recovery in the Walled
City upgrading component. Nevertheless, the scarcity of mortgage finance
threatens to inhibit the development of similar schemes on the much larger
scale that will be necessary to meet Pakistan's pressing need for urban
services and shelter. The solution to this problem lies in the ability of
financial institutions, particularly the HBFC, to harness local resources,
including remittances from overseas workers, which exceed US$2 billion per
year, for investment in urban services and shelter. This matter is already
under investigation, at both the Federal and Provincial level. Meanwhile
the initiatives taken under the project will start to provide solutions to
the tremendous natural pressure for serviced sites and housing and will
emphasize the need for an improved long term mortgage market.



- 46 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of Pakistan, GOPUN, LDA, LMC and HBFC that:
(a) LMC will provide buildings and staff to support a vehicle and
plant maintenance program acceptable to IDA (para 2.32);
(b) terms and conditions of the Investment Agreement between
the Government and HBFC shall be as specified in this report
(paras 3.09-3.10);
(c)  (i)  LDA and LMC will maintain separate project accounts
which will be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA;
accounts and audit reports will be submitted to IDA
no later than six months after the close of each
financial year (para 3.20);
(ii)  LDA and LMC will submit to IDA quarterly financial
statements and reports, containing among other things
the findings of project monitoring and evaluation,
not later than six weeks after the end of each quarter
(para 3.20); and
(iii)  HBFC will submit audited financial statements to IDA
not later than six months after the close of each
financial year (para 3.20).
(d) terms and conditions of cost recovery from beneficiaries will
be as specified in this report (paras 4.01-4.04);
(e) beneficiary selection criteria and sales contracts will be
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.08);
(f) LDA will adopt a double entry bookkeeping sytem and will have
annual audits undertaken by an independent firm of Auditors
during project implementation (para 5.13);
(g) HBFC will place the surplus funds generated under the project
in a revolving fund to be used to finance similar projects in
future (para 5.26).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness will be execution of:
(a) the Investment Agreement between the Government and
HBFC (paras 3.09 and 3.10); and
(b) the on-lending agreement between HBFC and LDA (paras 3.09
and 3.10).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
to the Government of Pakistan of US$16.0 million.



LAHURE: UREiAN DEVELOPMENt1IT PROJECT:  DETAILED COST ESTIMATES OF 220 NOVEMBER 82
COMF'ONENT:  WALLED CITTY UJPGRAD INB
EXECIJTING AO3ENCY:  LAHORE DEVELOPFMENT AUTHORITY
,  -.......... .... . .I. .... . .    _.    _ ..... _..    .. X_. ____.. ._. .__. .
I TEMS                         BASE         FOREIGN LOCAL  TAX COMFPONENT'
COS'T FOREIGN  COST   COSrT          VALUE
RS.MN          RS.MN  RS.MN           RS.MN
A. I NF'RASTRLJCTURE
1. LEAK DETECTION                                     0.83  20.00   0.17   0. 66
2. REPLACEMENT OF WATER SIJPPLY                       2.85  20. 0H   0.57   2.28
3. NEW WATER MAINS                                    S.32  30.00   1.60   3.73
4. SEWERAGE                                           8.43  10.00   0.84   7.58
5 .ELECTRICITY & STREE'T' LIGHTING                    2.18  30.00   C). 65   1.52
6.JUPGRADING SCHOOLS &z COMMUNITY FACILITIES          3.60  1 C). 0:   0.36   3.24
SUB TOTAL                                          23.20           4.19  19.01
B.CITY WIDE SOLID WASTE                                1.45  30.00   0.44   1.02  20.00   0.29
C.DESIGN & SUFPERVISION                                2.20           0.00   2.2 0
D. CONSERVATION PLAN                                   2.20            0.00   2. 20
E.LOANS FOR' INSTALLATION OF W.C.S                     0.00  20. 00   0.00   0.00
F. LOANS FOR HOUSE RECONSTRLUCTION                    20. 00   5.00   1 .00  19.00
G.TRAINING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                                    0.C)00   0.00
1 .COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                              1.10           0.00   1.10
2. TRAINING                                           0.55  50.00   0.28   0.28
3.MONITORING & EVALUATION                             0.55           0.00   0.55
SUB TOTAL                                           2.20           0.28   1. 9.3
T OTAL                                                51.25           5.90  45.35            0.29
H.PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES. 15% OF A & B                 3.70           0.69   3.00            0.04
I.PPRICE CONTINGENCIES:
l.ON A                                                4.19           0.76   3.43
2.ON B                                                0.26           0.08   O.16            0.05
3.ON C                                                0.26           0.00   0.26
4.ON D                                                0.28           0.00   0.28
5.ON G                                                0.32           0.04   0.28
SUB TOTAL                                           5.31           0.87   4.44            0. 05
TOTAL                                                 60.26           7.47  52.79            0.39



Li-'HORE UJRBAN DEVELOPMENT FPROJECT-h  DE'T-Y'ILED) COST EST'IMA~TES OF' 20- NOVEMBER 82?
COMPONENT:  GUJ,JA~RFP-RA SITEHS AND SERV ICES
E XEC'UT INO3 AGE.N(CY    LA~HORE- DEVE:LOPMENT AIJTHOR I"FY
I'TEMS                              BA~SE      .   FOREIGN LOCAL  TAX COMPONENT
COST FOREION  COST    COST    'A    VALUE
RS.MN      'A    RS.MN  RS.MN              RS.MN
A.1 01 N 1)                                    ~~~~~~~~7. 56              7.56
D+.ON SITE INFRA~STRUCTUJRE:
1. . WATER SUPP'LY                                           12.65  30 .00C   3. SC   8.86
2.SEWE ~E16. 8:3  :315. 00    5.89   10).94
3. IDRA I NAOE                                                5. 06             0. 00    5. 0)6
4. ROADS A~ND BFRI DOES                                      28.97   1 0.0      290C  26. 07
5. ELF-.CTR-,,ICITY &41 STREET LIGH-TING                     10). 1 2  30. 00    3,1 0)4   7.08
~~~~~. O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ~~~~~~~7. 47  :30. 00    2.24    5.23
7 . Wl(YiE:R,, & SEWER CONNEcT-r I ONS                        4.55  30.C)0    1.37        . 19
B. SQ3L.I.D WASTE COLLECT ION                                  1 . 90           0. 00)   1 .90
9.1 L..( NI)S CP r- I NO6                                     2. 53            C),O00    2.53
SLID3 TOTAL L-9.0                                                           1 9.22'.  70. 86
C.OFSITIE I NFRASTRUC'T'JRE:
I . R O6)DsI :14.81     1.00    1.48   17.3-3
0. DESIGN AND SUPERV ISI ON                                     a. 3 9           0 * 00    8.739
E..1IOi0JSIlNOl LOANhS                                        35.0 5 .    00C)    1 .75  3,3. 225
TF`AIh NGI N&~ TECldN I CPI'L. ir'SS I S.T('lNE,
. VEH ICLES & EOULJIF PM[EN\T'                               1 . 201"  6 C.UU   0".7.72 0 48  4(.0,  C)0  . 48
2I F"R i) N4 1 N~                                                   50,    . 00C   0.7 C3s   0 38
3., COMMUNITY DEVELOPM1ENT                                1. . C)l          C. 'O    1. 01
4.W.  MN ITOR1 IG NO (ND EV(AL.UAT IC ONC. 76                                   0,C0   0. 76
Sz:t.JB T OTAL F:3.7                                                         1. 1C)   2.63             0.48
-TOTAl.. ( TO"I F.                                           159-. 57           23. 56 1 36, 01            0. 48
o . PHiYS EI CAL.I CONTI NGENC IES, IO'%. OF   & C             10, 49            2.C7   8. 42
H. F'R I CEI-- CONT I NGENC I ES
I.(1\O   B & C                                               1 -7.77           3.51   14,26
2ON D:) 81                                                                    C)Q. 00  C 81
. ON F( 0.1                                                                            C) 2'3           0.C)04
ISU L. ff?  OTAL. H                                        18. 91            3. 61   15, 3(.C)         U,04
TfOT AI188. 97                                                                 2 . 21  1 59. 7 4           0 . 52



LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES OF 20 NOVEMBER 82
COMPONENT: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT, MAINTENANCE, ORGANISATION MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE
EXECUTING AGENCY: LAHORE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
ITEMS                          BASE        FOREIGN LOCAL  TAX COMPONENT
COST FOREIGN  COST   COST    %    VALUE
RS.MN    %    RS.MN  RS.MN           RS.MN
A.SOLID WAST'E EQUIPMENT:
I.TIPPING TRUCKIS (50)                              17.50  67.00  11.73   5.78  33.00   5.78
2.FPAYLOADERS, HEAVY DUTY (4)                        3.60  75.00   2.70   0.90  25. OC)   0.90
3.PAYLOADERS, LIGHT DUTY (4)                         2.40  75.00   1.80  C0.60  25.00   0.60
4. SUPERVISOR'S TRANSPORT                            0.80  52.50   0.42   0.38  35.00   0.28
5.MOBILE WORKSHOP (1)                                0.20  67.00   0.13   0.07  33.00   0.07
6.PORTABLE CONTAINERS (10)                           1.50  75.00   1.13   0.38  25.00   0.3B
7.SWEEPERS HANDCARTS (2000)                          2.00                  2.00           0.00
6.MISCELLANEOUS TOOLS                                0.50  30.00   0.15   0.35            0 .00
SUB TOTAL A                                       28.50          18.05  10.45           8.00
B. MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT:
1.DUMPTRUCKS (4)                                     0.60  67.00   0.54   0.26  33.00   0.26
2.VIBRATING ROLLERS (4)                              0.28  75.00   0.21   0.07  25.00   0.07
3.HAND COMPACTORS (4)                                0.16  75.00   0.12   0.04  25.00   0.04
4.PNEUMATIC EQUIPMENT (4)                            0.28  75.00   0.21   0.07  25.00   0.07
5.FRONT END LOADERS (4)                              2.40  75.00   1.80   0.60  25.00   0.60
SUB TOTAL B                                        3.92           2.88   1.04           1.04
TOTAL EQUIPMENT                                      32.42          20.93  11.49           9.04
C.CIVIL WORk'S:
1.WORk- SHOP UPGRADING                               2.53  10.00   0.25   2.28
2.ZONAL VEHICLE PARKS                                1.27  10.00   0.13   1.14
3.ZONAL TRANSFER STATIONS                            7.59  10.00   0.76   6.83
4.FIXED CONTAINERS                                   1.27  10.00   0.13   1.14
5.LANDFILL SITES                                     0.76           0.00   0.76
SUB TOTAL C                                       13.41           1.27  12.14
D.TRAINING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
1.SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT                             1.60  20.00   0.36   1.44            0.00
2.O.M.&F. STUDY & IMPLEMENTATION                     2.00  20.00   0.40   1.60
SUB TOTAL D                                        3.80           0.76   3.04
'T'OTAL  A-D                                         49.63          22.95  26.67           9. 04
E.PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES, 10% OF A, B & C             4.58           2.22   2.36           0.90
F.PRICE CONTINGENCIES
l.ON A & B                                           4.26           2.76   1.52           1.19
2.ON C                                               2.27           0.21   2.06
3.ON D                                               0.39           0.08   0.31
SUD TOTAL                                          6.94           3.06   3.88           1.19
TOTAL                                                61.15          28.23  32.9:          11.14



- 50 -
Annex II-1
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1982                  1983                 1994                  1985                 1986      '        1987
91 1  22   9 03   9 04   91 a     92   9 a3   94 i    91 Q    Q2   9 Q3   94 91   9 : Q2 ' 93 '94   9 '1   9 Q2 ' 03 I 94   91   9 Q2   9 03 ' 94Oi
:CONSULTANT STUDIES
OM&F STUDY LDA                                                                           :
:I.GUJJARPURA EXPANSION AREA:
LAND ACQUISITION
SURVEY                                        a ======
APPOINT GEN CONSULTANT :   -==
APPOINT PROJ STAFF      i   ======
TRUNK INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                         ,         
PREPARE DESIGNS                                                  a                    a                    a=a
PREP.TENDER DOCS.
GOVT/BAfNK REV&APPROV                                      =                                               ,         
INVIT/SUB OF TENDERS I                     a                    a                     a                    a                    a
AWARD OF CONTRACTS                         *                                          a                    a                     a
CONST. CONTRACT I                                                                                          a                     a
CONST. CONTRACT 2                                                                                                               a
CONST. CONTRACT 3                                                                     a                    a                    a
DES6IN BUILD PACKhAES, a                                           a                    a                     a
P'REP DESIGN STANDARDS:                         ===                                
GGVT/BA^NK REVLAPPROV ',                              =
SELECT CONSORTIA      '                                                               a                    a=a
CONSORTIAia PREP DESIGN!                   a                     a=aa=
50YOTIBANK REVLAPPROV                                               j  ==                                                           i           
P,ACKAGE NO I                              .…                                       =
PACKAGE NO 2                               ..=======..'
PACKAGE NO 3                                                     a                                         a
PACKAGE NO ¶          a                                          a                                         a                     a
HOMfE BUILDING LOANS    .                                          a                    a…a…a…a
a   RENEDIALS & COMP.ROADS                                              a                    a         ……
.SELECTION 0.' BENEF.       .                                                                                    ,,,
ADVERTISE PLOTS                                                    a                    a =                                        a
PRELIMINARY SELECTION  .'                    .                        =                           
LOTTERY                                       a                                         a                     a                    a
FINAL SELECTION         .                     .                                         a                    a                     a
.2.WALLED CITY UPGRADING    :                      a                    a                                         a                     a
APPOINT PROJECT STAFF  .      =              ,                                                               a                     a
',   TOPDSRA^PHICAL SURVEY  '.     ========                                 
.' SAP,PLE SE.HERAGE       .      =======',                                            
PREPARATION OF DESIGNS a                                           a                                          a                    a
CONSTRUCTION PHASE I                          a        …a                    …=         .====                .                     a
CONSTRUCTION PHASE2                           a                    a 
LOANS FOR HOME RECONSTR,                      a                    a         …a                   …a                   …a…a
I.MPROVEMENTS SCHlCO ...... ,M.==.====================.=====..
'.   CONSERVATION PL.AN      ..===========                                                   .'   
M 'ONITORING & EVALUATION:                                                       ===================================
',3.SOLID HP,STE COLLECTION ..                                                                                                          ,
AND MtANAGEMiENT.              ......
APPOINT CONSULt.ANT     .                   =                                           .,''
CONSULTANTS STUDY       .                     .======-'i    
Ea PT LISTS                                   a SPECS '.==…a
DESIGN CIVIL ,w,oRKS    '                                     ==.                 
PREPA,RE TEN,DER DOCS    ..=.                                                                
60VTlB.ANK REVLAPPROVA,L...==.:.
INVIT/SUB' TENDERS&AW.......iARD',,,==   
anEQPT DELIVERY/ICDNSTR   a                  a                  .                                                                  a
a   .',ONITORING I  EVALUATION', a                 a         ……
4.S TUDY  FOR SECND PROJECT             .           :                  , 
-                            a                         -    -                                                 -                         a--------------------------------- -



ANIEX II-2
- 51 -
LAHORE                               LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   ANNEX 2
041                                  PROJECT PHASING (RS.MILLION) ESTIMATES OF 23 NOVEMBER 82
BASE   PHYS TOTAL   -      PHASING        FACTORS ----    ----   COSTS          PRICE  TOTAL
COST   CONT INCPHYS  1983   1984   1985   1986   1983   1984   1985   1986 CONTING COST
CONT
A.WALLED CITY
lINFRASTRUCT   23.19   3.48  26.67   0.20   0.35   0.35   0.10   5.33   9.33   9.33   2.67   4.19  30.85
2SOLID WASTE    1.45   0.22   1.67   0.20   0.35   0.35   0.10   0.33   0.58   0.58   0.17   0.26   1.93
3DESISN&SPN      2.20          2.20   0.50   0.20   0.20   0.10   1.10   0.44   0.44   0.22   0.26   2.46
4CONSERVATION   2.20           2.20   0.25   0.50   0.25             0.55   1.10   0.55   0.00   0.28   2.48
5CONM  8EV      2.20           2.20   0.40   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.88   0.44   0.44   0.44   0.32   2.52
6RECON LOANS   20.00          20.00           0.30   0.40   0.30   0.00   6.00   8.00   6.00             20.00
SU8 TOTAL       51.24   3.70  54.94                                  8.20  17.90  19.35   9.49   5.31  60.24
PRICE CONT                                                           0.33   1.55   2.38   1.05   5.31
TOTAL A.       51.24   3.70  54.94                                   8.53  19.44  21.73  10.54           60.24
B.BUJJARPURA
ILAND           7.56           7.56   1.00                           7.56                                 7.56
21NFRASTRUCT  104.90  10.49 115.39            0.70   0.30            0.00  80.77  34.62           17.77 133.15
3DESISN&SPN      8.39          8.39   0.50   0.35   0.15             4.20   2.94   1.26            0.81   9.20
4CONM DEV       3.73           3.73   0.60   0.25   0.15             2.24   0.93   0.56   0.00   0.33   4.06
3HOUSE LOANS   35.00          35.00                   0.60   0.40   0.00   0.00  21.00  14.00            35.00
SUB TOTAL      159.58  10.49 170.06                                 13.99  84.64  57.43  14.00  18.91 188.98
PRICE CONT                                                           0.26  11.00   7.65           18.91
TOTAL B.       159.58  10.49 170.06                                 14.25  95.64  65.08  14.00          188.98
C.SOLID WASTE
IEQUIPNENT     32.42   3.24  35.66   0.20   0.60   0.20             7.13  21.40   7.13   0.00   4.28  39.94
2CIVIL WORKS   13.41   1.34  14.75            0.70   0.30            0.00  10.32   4.42   0.00   2.27  17.02
3TRAINING ETC   3.80           3.80   0.30   0.70                    1.14   2.66   0.00   0.00   0.39   4.19
SUB TOTAL      49.62   4.58  54.21                                   8.27  34.38  11.56   0.00   6.94  61.15
PRICE CONT                                                           0.33   4.26   2.36           6.94
TOTAL C.       49.62   4.58  54.21                                   B.60  38.63  13.91   0.00           61.15
D.STUDIES         1.60           1.60                  0.50   0.50   0.00   0.00   0.80   0.80   0.41   2.01
PRICE CUNT                                                                          0.17   0.24   0.41
TOTAL D.                                                                           0.97   1.04            2.01
TOTAL          262.04  18.77 280.81                                 31.38 153.72 101.70  25.58  31.57 312.37
312.37



LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT - GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
(Rs Million)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
A. Sources:
1. Federal Budget Allocations               14        4       -        -
2. IDA Credit                                5      129      50       24
3. Profits/(Losses) from HBFC                -       -        - _              13       13      13       13
Total Sources                                  19      133       50      24       13       13       13      13
B. Applications:
1. Investment with HBFC                      6      100      29       20                                                 U,
2. Government of Punjab ADP                 13       33      21        4
3. Loan Repayment to IDA
(starts in 1993)
Total Applications                             19      133       50      24
Surplus/ (Deficit)                              -        -        -       -       13       13      13       13
Cumulative Surplus                              -        -        -       -       13       26      39       52



- 53 -                            ANNEX III-2
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SOURCE AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT - HBFC
(Rs Million)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
A. Sources:
1. Investment frQm Federal Government         6   100    29    20
2. Investment Repayment from LDA                                      117    17    17
3. Investment Repayments from LowA
Income Beneficiaries                             -            3     3      4     3       3
4. Investment Repayments from House
Reconstruction in Walled City                          1      2     2      2     2       2
5. Investment Repayments from
Reinvested Funds                        _ __                                           117
Sources                                    6   100    30    25   122    23    22    122
B. Applications:
1. Investment with LDA for Area
Development                             6    94
2. House Building Loans to Sites
and Services Beneficiaries              -     -   21    14
3. House Reconstruction Loans to
Walled City Residents                   -     6      8     6
4. Profits/(Losses) to Federal
Government                                                      13    13    13       13
5. Operating Expenses                                     1      Z     2     2      2      2
6. Reinvestment in similar
projects                                                   -    10      -    -
Total Applications                               6    100   30    22    115   15    15   115
Surplus/ (Deficit)                              -      -     -      3     7      8     7       7
Cumulative Surplus                              -      -     -      3    10    18    25      32



- 54 -                             ANNEX III-3
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT - GOVERNMENT OF THE PUNJAB
(Rs Million)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
A. Sources:
1. ADP Allocation (from Federal
Government)                         13    33    21       4
Total Sources                                13    33    21       4
B. Applications:
1. Grants to LDA for
Walled City Upgrading                9   13    14      4
2. Grant to LMC for Solid Waste
Collection, Maintenance
and OMAF Components                    4    20   7
Total Applications                            13    33  21       4
Surplus/ (Deficit)
Cumulative Surplus



ANNEX III-4
- 55 -
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT - LDA
(Rs Million)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
A. Sources:
1. Own Resources                         8    2       45     1
2. Area Development Investment
from HBFC                           6   94
3. Grants from Government of
Punjab ADP                          9   13      14      4
4. Gujjarpura Sites and Services:
(a) Development Charges from
Exemptees                                          79
(b) Connection Charges                                   5
(c) Plot Sales:
(i) Residential                                         22    22
(ii) Commercial                                          26    27
(iii) Industrial                                          26    27
(iv) Health & Education                                   R      8
(v) Low Income             -               5      5      5
Total Sources                             .23=  __2= .6_    24   =_   =9
B. Applications:
1. Gujjarpura Sites & Services         14    96    44
2. Walled City Upgrading                9    13    14       4
3. Studies                                           1      1
4. Investment Repayment to 1HBFC                           -   117      17      17
Total Applications                        23   11)9    50       5  117      17      17
Surplus/(Deficit)                          -      -      5    39  (30)    72    (17)
Cumulative Surplus /1                      -      -      5    94   64    136    119
/1 The cumulative surplus would be available for investment in similar projects.



ANNEX III-5
- 56 -
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT - LMC
(Rs Million)
1983  1984 1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
A. Sources:
1. Municipal Budget                   4    19       7
2. Grant from Government of
Punjab                           4    20      7
3. Increase in Municipal
Revenues                                     17    19    21    23    26    28
4. Increase in Property Taxes:
(a) Walled City                                        1      2     1      2      1
(b) Gujjarpura Sites &
Services                                        3      4      4     4      5
Total Sources                              8    39    31    23    27    28    32    34
B. Applications:
1. Solid Waste Collection,
Maintenance Equipment &
Studies                          8    39    14
2. Equipment Renewal                                                   12    34    12
3. Maintenance in Project Areas:
(a) Walled City                                        1            1             1
(b) Gujjarpura                                         2      2     2      3      3
Total Applications                         8    39    14       3      2    15    37    16
Surplus/ (Deficit)                         -     -    17    20    25    13    (5)   18
Cumulative Surplus                         -     -    17    37    62    75    70    88



ANNEX IV-1
- 57 -
LAHORE. UURBAN DEVELOPMENT PFROJECT
ANNEX  IV--I ECONOMIC YNALYSIS
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN. MARCH 3 1983
WALLED CITY UF'GRADING   SITES & SERVICES   COMBINED
…----------------------  NET CASH FLOW
COSTS BENEFITS  NET  COSTS BENEFITS  NET ----…----
YEAR        RS. MN                   RS. MN           RS. MN
1 932   0;, 0 )               f00   0 , 00  0       0)
19-33   9.65   0.0 ,(   -9.65  15.32        0 --15.32 --'224. 97
1984  14.99   3.15 -- 1184  82.39          0) -82. 39 -94.23
1985  16.75   9.45  - 7.3i_:0  48.69  56.11   7.42    .12
1986   7.76    12.6)   4.84  17,15   67.5  50.35  55.19
1937    .66  122.6    11.94   3.15  51.45   48.3  6 .24
1939    .66  12.60  11.94   -3.15   9.00   5.B5  17.79
1L939    .66  12,60  11.94   3.15   9.0u   5,85  17.79
199)    .66  12. 60  11,94   3.15   9. 00   5.85   17.79
1991     .66  1,)60  11.94   3.15   9. 00;  5.85 l17,79
1992     .66  1 2.6 0S6CS  11.94   3.15   9.0 0)   5.85  17,79
199371   .66  1 '12. 60  11.94   3_.15   9. 00)   5.85  17.79
1994    .66  12. 60  11.94   3.15   9. 00   5.85  17-7.79
1995     .66  12.60  11.94   3.1.5   9.00   5.85  17.79
1996     .66  1 2. 60 ) 11.94   3.15   9. 00   5.85  17.79
:1997    .66  1 2.60  11.94   3.15   90 (C0  5.85  17. -79
1998     .66  12. 60  11.94   3.15   9. 00   5,85  17.79
1999     .66  12." 60   11.94    . 15   9.00   5,85  L17.79
2000     .66  1260  11 .4   3. 15   9.0C0,H   5.85  17 -,779
2001(il    w <5).66  12.60  11.94   3.15   9.00   5.85  17,79
2002     .66  12 60  11.94   3.15   9. 00   5.B  17.79
2003     .66  12.60  11.94   3.15   900(  5.85  17.79
2004     .66  12.60  11.94   3.15   9.00   5.85  17.79
2.rS005  .66  12.60  11.94   3.15   9.00   5.85  17.79
20fJ06   .66  12.60  11.94   3.15   9.0 (0)  S.85  17. 79
I NTERN.-JAL RF)TE
OF RE'TURN %           2`7 23 2 32              15. 032 19. 803



- 58 -
ANNEX IV-2
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
WALLED CITY UPGRADING
(Rs Million, 1981 prices)
/1                                   1983    1984    1985    1986   1987-2006
Costs:
Infrastructure                          5.51    7.71    7.71    1.10
Solid Waste (1/3)                       0.14    0.18    0.14
Design & Supervision                     1.00    0.60    0.40
Technical Assistance, etc.              1.00    0.50    0.50
House Improvement                                6.00    8.00    6.00
Maintenance 3% of
Infrastructure costs)                                          0.66       0.66
Total Costs                                 9.65   14.99   16.75    7.76        0.66
Benefits:
Increase in Rental Values/2                      3.15    9.45   12.60       12.60
Net Cash Flow, + or                         9.65) (11.84)   7.30)   4.84       11.94
/1   Costs include physical contingencies, but exclude taxes and price contingencies
/2   7,000 premises, average 3 rooms each;rents per room before upgrading were
Rs 125 month, after, Rs 175 month, increase = Rs 50 month per room.



- 59 -                             ANNEX IV-3
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
GUJJARPURA SITES AND SERVICES
(Rs Million, 1981 prices)
Costs:/l1                    1983      1984      1985     1986      1987     198s-2006
Land                      7.56
Infrastructure                     78.67    26.22
Design & Supervision      5.73      2.87     0.96
Community Development,
etc.                   2.03     0.85      0.51
Home Construction                           21.00    14.00
Maintenance (3% of
Infrastructure costs)                              3.15      3.15        3.15
Total Costs                 15.32    82.39    48.69    17.15        3.15       3.15
Benefits:
(a) Sale of Plots:
(i) Residential,
market prices                                  15.00    12.34
(ii) Commercial,
market prices                                  20.00    12.44
(iii) Industrial,
market prices                                  20.00    12.46
(iv) Health & Education
cost                                            5.00      5.21
(b) Development Charges:
(i) Exemptees                            42.41
(ii) Existing residents                   10.70
(c) Rental Values of Low-Income
Housing (5,000 rooms at
Rs 150 per month per room)                 3.00      7.50      9.00        9.00
Total Benefits                                 56.11    67.50    51.45         9.00
Net Cash Flow, + or ()    (15.32)  (82.39)   7.42    50.35    48.30            5.85
/1   Costs include physical contingencies, but exclude taxes and price contingencies



LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN POVERTY IMPACTS
1        ~~2           3             4         5         6             7              8                   9
Component    % Spent    Amount Spent  Total No.  UP Cost UPP Bene-  Urban Poor in  Urban Poor Yet            Remarks
Cost     on the Poor  on the Poor   of Bene-   Capita  ficiaries  Need of Service to be Served
$ Million                 $ Million   ficiaries
1. Upgrading Walled City        4.6           50%         2.3         50,000      92       25,000      75,000          50,000        Program would need
repeating twice.
2.  Gujjarpura Sites and       14.5           45%         6.5         60,000     260       25,000     180,000         155,000        Assumes that during the
Services                                                                                                                       three year period when
180,000 additional UP will
arrive the project will
provide for 25,000.
3.  Solid Waste Collection      4.7          65%          3.1     1.5 million      3    1.0 million  1.46 million   460,000          Solid waste will benefit
about 50% of the city,      >
mainly low-income areas. 0
4.  Studies                     0.2           45%         0.1         -           -           _          _                           Studies will have city-
wide benefits.
TOTAL           24.0           50%        12.0



- 61 -
ANNEX V-2
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Poverty Sectoral Indicators
(a) 45% of the residential plots in the sites and services
area are affordable by the urban poor (4,200 out of
9,350 residential plots).
(b) about 14% of the annual demand for new shelter by the
urban poor will be met by this project (4,200 low-
income units in three years out of an annual demand
of 10,000 units).
(c) 50% (or 25,000) of the population in the Walled City
project area are in the urban poverty group.
(d) at the present time, there are some 1.5 million urban poor
living in the LMA, of which about 50% (750,000) live in
Katchi Abadis and 7% (130,000) in the Walled City. The
Walled City upgrading program will benefit 2% of the city's
urban poor and about 33% of the areas in need of upgrading
in the Walled City.
(e) The solid waste component will mainly benefit the poorer
sections of the community (para 6.08) and about 65% of
the benefits are expected to go to the urban poor.



- 62 -
ANNEX VI-i
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The House Building Finance Corporation
Administrative Structure
1.         The House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC) was established in
April 1952 under the HBFC Act, Act No. XVIII of 1952. Its main purpose is
to finance the construction or purchase of houses. In 1974 the HBFC Act was
amended empowering it to finance the purchase and/or planning and development
of land on which houses are to be constructed and to undertake housing projects
itself. The HBFC Act was again amended in 1979 when GOP legislated the
elimination of interest rate charges on future HBFC investments and the imple-
mentation of a profit sharing system. As a result, the HBFC was empowered
to "make investment in collaboration with partners for construction or purchase
of houses or for purchase on development of land". The act states that all
investments have to be fully secured and cannot be given for a period exceeding
25 years. However, the HBFC's present policy is to invest for a period of not
more than 15 years (up to five years for flood loans) and not in excess of
Rs 1,000,000. At the present time the HBFC is the only institution in Pakistan
authorized to make long-term housing investments.
2.         HBFC's authorized and paid-up share capital amounts to Rs 125
million, all of which is owned by the GOP as provided by the HBFC's Act.
3.         The HBFC is managed by an eight-member Board of Directors.  Four
members represent each of the provinces, two members represent the Federal
Government, one member represents the State Bank of Pakistan and one member
is the Managing Director. Operations are directed by the managing director
working through a deputy managing director, three executive directors and
nine managers. Total staff comprise about 870, including the administration,
operations, accounting, auditing, planning and development, project engineer-
ing and recovery (collection) departments.
4.         HBFC's organization consists of the Head Office in Karachi and
Zonal Offices in Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad controlling 13 regional offices
and 28 district offices. Regional and district offices undertake the initial
processing of applications, the necessary supervision during construction and
the recovery of deliquent accounts. The role of the Zonal Offices is primarily
one of control and administration. The role of the Head Office is partly one
of overall administration. Accounting, and audit, and partly one of providing
support services through the Planning, Engineering, Loan Coordination, Opera-
tions and Recovery Departments.



- 63 -
ANNEX VI-2
Lending Procedures
5.        To obtain an investment from HBFC, applicants must provide proof of
clear title to the land on which the house is or will be constructed, or
permission (assignment) from the lease/title developing authority to mortgage
the property. Approved site and building plans and a building permit must be
obtained and under the present policy the individual must have sufficient
funds to make a cash downpayment of at least 20%, a stable income sufficient
to meet the monthly installments under the investment and where necessary, a
guarantor. The HBFC's legal department reviews all documents and other
departments respectively review the credit application, verify proof of
income and repayment capacity of the borrower and check the building costs.
The processing of the application takes an average of 15 to 30 days.
6.        For an individual HBFC will not finance a housing unit covering an
area greater that 2,250 sq.ft. The maximum amount of investment by the HBFC
is determined as follows:
Type of Unit                       Investment Per   Maximum Investment
Square Foot      Based on 2,250 Sq.Ft.
(a)  Pucca House urban areas            Rs 90/Sq.Ft.          Rs 202,500
(b)  Pucca House rural areas            Rs 55/Sq.Ft.          Rs 123,750
(c)  Multistoreyed Apartments           Rs 80/Sq.Ft.          Rs 180,000
7.        An individual's repayment capacity is determined as follows:
Maximum Percentage of
Income Range                         Verified Income
(a)  Up to Rs 500/mo.                     15%
(b)  Rs 501/mo. - 1,000/mo                20%
(c)  Rs 1001/mo. - 2,500                  25%
(d)  Over Rs 2,500/mo.                    30%
8.        The HBFC also makes institutional investments to development
authorities for land development and the construction of housing projects.
A provincial government guarantee is usually required for these investments,
which are classified as bulk investments. Bulk investments have been made
to the Karachi, Lahore, Baluchistan, Faisalabad and Capital Development
Authorities. A third category of investments is made to individuals whose
homes are damaged by flooding. These investments are made under very relaxed
lending conditions and are fully guaranteed by the Government of Pakistan.



- 64 -
ANNEX VI-3
9.        The HBFC had 368,000 investments in its portfolio amounting to
Rs 2,964.2 million as of June 30, 1980, broken down as follows:
Total
Amount of
Number of             Outstanding
Investments    %       Investments        %
Rs Million
Housing Investments            88,034       24        2,331.6        79
Flood Investments             279,955       76          437.6        15
Bulk Investments                   11        0          195.0         6
368,000      100       2,954.2        100
10.       As of June 30, 1979 the HBFC had distributed its investments
between the various provinces/regions as presented below.  While HBFC does
not have to distribute its funds in any particular ratio between the various
provinces/regions, often particularly with respect to flood investments and
other investments of this type, funds are earmarked by the GOP for a partic-
ular purpose in a particular area of the country.
Total
Amount of
Number of            Outstanding
Investments   %       Investments        %
Rs Million
Sind (Excluding Karachi)             137,958    39           431.1         17
Karachi                               20,674      6          892.9         34
Punjab (Excluding Islamabad)         168,912    48         1,014.3        38
Islamabad                              2,211      1          140.4         5
Northwest Frontier Province           16,118      5           134.6         5
Baluchistan                            1,808      1            28.3         1
347,681   100         2,641.6        100
11.       The following is a breakdown of total investments and total amounts
given by the HBFC from inception through December 31, 1980 according to
loan amount category.
Total            Average
Number of             Amount of         Investment
Investment Amount              Investments   %        Investments   %      Size
Rs Million            Rs
(a) Up to Rs 20,000                 320,657    84          1,221.0    27       3,800
(b) Rs 20,001 to Rs 40,000            33,405     9         1,223.3    27    36,600
(c) Rs 40,001 to Rs 60,000            17,948      5          990.9    22    55,200
(d) Rs 60,001 to Rs 1,000,000          9,145     2         1,117.7    24   122,200
Total                          381,555   100          4,552.9   100



- 65 -
ANNEX VI-4
12.       HBFC investments are nearly always given for the maximum amount the
individual can afford. Taking this factor into account, 84% of the number of
investments and 27% of the total amount of investments relate to the lowest
income levels corresponding to the up to Rs 500 per month income level. There
is some distortion in the figures due to the fact that the vast majority of
small investments were flood relief investments. However, it does indicate
that the majority of the HBFC's investments have been given to the low income
population.
Finance
13.       The financial position of HBFC is summarized in Table V-3.
Table V-3: HBFC - SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS (for years ending June 30)
(in Million Rupees)
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
Assets
Investments                         906.4   1,447.6   1,796.5  2,275.1  2,964.7/a
Other                                 63.4      35.2       53.1    101.2       47.9
Net Assets in Bangladesh             196.2     196.2      209.0    220.1    239.8
Total Assets                      1,662.2   1,679.0   2,058.6  2,596.4  3,252.4
Liabilities
Government and State Bank
Investments                       886.4   1,359.9   1,791.8  2,273.3  2,892.7
Other                               229.3      273.8      139.8    177.5    212.3
Total Liabilities                 1,115.7   1,633.7   1,931.6  2,450.8  3,105.0
Equity                                50.5      45.3      127.0    145.6    147.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY    1,166.2   1,679.0   2,058.6  2,596.4  3,252.4
/a   Includes Rs 472.5 million under the new profit sharing basis.
14.       The increase in the investment portfolio has averaged 35% per annum
over the past four years, although all of the increase is as a result of
funds received from the GOP. Almost none of the funds used to increase the
portfolio have been derived from either the reinvestment of roll over funds
or from other sources of financing.



- 66 -
ANNEX VI-5
15.       Income and expenditure statements are summarized in Table V-4.
Table V-4: HBFC - SUMMARY INCOME AND EXPENDITURF STATEMENTS
(for years ending June 30)
(In Million Rs)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Income
Interest from investments                   51.5    77.2    121.5   180.5   224.5
Subsidy from Government of Pakistan          8.4    17.2       22.6    14.7      0.0
Other                                        1.7      3.9       2.1     3.0      3.3
Total Income                           61.6    98.3    146.2   198.2   227.8
Expenses
Interest and Charges on indebtedness        60.4    94.6    128.7   164.6   210.3
Administrative expenses                      5.8      8.7      10.5    14.7    12.6
Other                                        0.1      0.2       0.3      0.3     3.1
Total Expenses                         66.3   103.5    139.5   179.6   226.0
Surplus/(deficit)                          ( 4.7)  ( 5.2)   ( 6.7)   18.6        1.8
16.       Prior to July 1979, interest rates on loans from the GOP ranged from
6% per annum to 12% per annum with the average about 10-1/4%. These loans are
repayable over 15 years in 30 equal installments.  Investments from the State
Bank of Pakistan carried interest rates of 2% below prevailing bank rates.
Prior to July 1980, State Bank of Pakistan investments were repayable after 10
years. Since the inception of the project sharing scheme, all further State
Bank and GOP investments to HBFC are on a profit sharing basis. As of June
30, 1980, the HBFC owed Rs 407.7 million to the GOP and Rs 2,485.0 million to
the State Bank of Pakistan.
17.       By comparison most of HBFC's housing investments were for a period
of 20-years and most of the flood investments were for a period of 10 years
prior to July 1, 1979. Since that date, most of the housing investments have
been for 15 years and most of the flood investments have been for 5 years.
18.       The HBFC's profit sharing plan showed a net loss of Rs 2.3 million
during its first year of implementation to June 30, 1980. Part of the loss
can be attributed to the fact that the individual borrower does not pay the
first installment on the investment until 12 months after the HBFC's first
disbursement for construction. Based on present rental income figures, the
several categories of plots are yielding the following "average profit rates"
to the HBFC:



- 67 -
ANNEX VI-6
Sizes of Plots       Size of Unit    "Average Profit
Categories of Plots        (in square yards)  (in square feet)        Rates" (%)
I                   Up to 180             Up to 1080             5.66
II                   181 to 320            1081 to 1600           6.42
III                   321 to 500            1601 to 1800           6.88
IV                   501 and above         1801 to 2250           7.44
19.       Another factor with a greater potential impact on the profitability
of the profit sharing plan is the determination of the rental income value
of the various properties in HBFC's portfolio. Rental incomes are to be
adjusted every 36 months, on the basis of the market value of the property,
which should greatly increase the profit rates and enable them to keep pace
with inflation or even show a positive return in real terms.
20.       Overdue accounts amounting to Rs 193.2 million compared to the
total outstanding portfolio of Rs 2,964.2 million yielded a delinquency rate
of 7% as of June 30, 1980. The total number of delinquent investments (10,680)
compared to the total number of investments in the portfolio (368,000) yielded
a percentage delinquency of 3% as of June 30, 1980.
21.       The HBFC has retained a "Reserve for bad and doubtful debts" on
its books since at least 1975, in the amount of Rs 4.1 million. This amount is
less than 1% of the outstanding portfolio, but HBFC justifies maintaining such
a small reserve by arguing that most of the delinquencies involved Katchi
Abadis, which respective Provincial Governments are guaranteeing, and therefore,
the HBFC's default risk is very low.



- 68 -
ANNEX VII-1
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Consulting Services and Studies
Cost, Rs Million (Base Costs)
Local         Foreign
A. Walled City Upgrading Component
1. Final design and supervision of project,
including physical surveys 50 man-months
of local consultants                                2.20
2. Conservation plan, TOR under preparation,
50 man-months of local consultants                  2.20
3. Community development program (to be
developed in association with UNICEF),
25 man-months of local consultants                  1.10
4. Monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation, 13 man-months of local
consultants                                         0.55
5. Training and technical assistance - local
and overseas training                               0.28             0.28
Sub-total           6.33             0.28
B. Sites and Services Component
1. Final design and supervision of design
build contracts, including training of
LDA staff, 207 man-months of local
consultants (TOR available)                         8.39
2. Community development program (to be
developed in association with UNICEF),
20 man-months of local consultants                  1.00
3. Monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation, 15 man-months of local
consultants                                         0.76
4. Training and technical assistance, local
and overseas training                               0.38             0.38
Sub-total          10.53             0.38



- 69 -
ANNEX VII-2
Cost, Rs Million (Base Costs)
Local        Foreign
C. Lahore Municipal Corporation
Implementation of solid waste management
study, stage II (stage I is financed under
Cr. 630-PAK) and other studies:
50 man-months of local consultants             3.04
6 man-months of foreign consultants             -             0.76
Sub-total          3.04            0.76
D. Studies
Preparation of a second urban project
in the Punjab and assistance with
regional planning (TOR to be determined),
28 man-months of local consultants            1.12
4 man-months of foreign consultants            -             0.48
Sub-total          1.12            0.48
Total: Consulting services
(468 man-months of local consultants)                       1.24
( 10 man-months of foreign consultants) 20.3
Training                                      0.66            0.66



- 70 -
ANNEX VIII
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents and Data Available on the Project File
1.   Lahore Urban Development and Traffic Study, Final Report (LDA,
September 1981):
Volume   I    Urban Planning
Volume  II    Urban Expansion Scheme
Volume III    Traffic Improvement Schemes
Volume  IV    The Walled City
2.   Model Urban Transport System, Lahore (Volvo, October 1980):
Volume   I    Summary of Findings and Recommendations
Volume  II    Progress Report
Volume III    Urban Travel Patterns
Volume  IV    Traffic Conditions for Buses
Volume   V    Traffic Engineering and Management
Volume  VI    Bus Route Network
Volume VII    Punjab Urban Transport Corporation
3.   Solid Waste Management for the City of Lahore by Colonel Muhammad
Yunus P.E. (November 1980).
4.   Review of the Solid Waste Management Component by David Jackson M.B.E.
(two papers, January and April 1981).
5.   Lahore Urban Development Project, Engineering Aspects, report by
Alan Penn, C. Eng. (March 1981).
6.   The Land Acquisition Act, 1894 by M. H. Khan (1975).
7.   Master Plan for Greater Lahore (July 1973).
8.   The Planning and Conservation of Lahore, a Report to UNESCO by
Anthony Meats (March 1975).
9.   Socio-Economic Survey of Gujjarpura, Lahore (1978).
10. Socio-Economic Survey of the Walled City, Lahore (July 1979).



- /I -
WALLED CITY, LAHORE (historic areas)
@@Flb~~~-
4,
*-t r  -                                             _-_____K_
The walled city in Lahore has the highest population densities in the city,
as shown in the top photo of typical residential sections. It also has
some of Pakistan's more important historic monuments; the mosque currently
being renovated in the lower photo is an exampie.






- 72 -
WALLED CITY, LAHORE (Utilities)
* p &~~~~~~_    - F
4
~~~~~~~~~~~~t=
In many parts of the walled city, services are inadequate and insufficient.
The top photo shows the bunching of water pipes which should be replaced by
a larger pipe. The lower photo gives an example of the haphazardly developed
power distribution system, which is difficult to control and maintain.






- /3 -
WALLED CITY, LAHORE (old housing)
Many parts of the walled city have very old buildings which have fallen into
disrepair. The historic detail warrants preserving in some, as shown in the
top photo. In other places, new buildings need to be constructed on the sites
of collapsed buildings, an exanpie of which is shown in the lower photo.






- 74 -
LAHORE, PAKISTAN (Katchi Abadis)
On the fringe of the city, new settlements emerge in an often unplanned and
uncontrolled fashion. Referred to as Katchi Abadis, they are shown in the
above photos which indicate their initially relatively low densities and the
makeshift nature of the dwellings. The Guijarpura Sites and Services Project
will help respond to the demand in a more systematic and planned way.






- 75 -
LAHORE, PAKISTAN
Gujjarpura Sites and Sevices Area
The above two photos show the Gujjarpura Sites and Services area. In the
background of the top photo is some of the existing development that covers
small parts of the southern site area. In the lower photo is existing develop-
ment on the opposite side of the east boundary road.






- 76 -
LAHORE, PAKISTAN - (Urban Transport)
4~
~~~~~~~~- 7
Many parts of the city are congested with conflicting transport modes, particularly
around the Southern area of the Walled City.






- 77 -
LAHORE, PAKISTAN
North Lahore ActionArea (Markets)
,                                      U
The above two photos show conditions in the major food market ares. Traffic
congestion and lack of organization of the distribution are causing major
problems.






WALLED CITY - PILOT AREA # 2
s Covered Streets    2  X il Q iai  sl-p                                                      p Commercial
~~~~Sret  n Open Spaces                                                                                                       Existi Biling  Ln   s
Covered Streets   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~DResidential
COmmercial/Inidustrial
1111Industrial
711 711~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Streets and Open Spaces                                                                                  Existing Land Use
Dilapidated 13 ildings                                                 MC~~~~~~~~~~~~UCturally Valuable Dilapidated Buildings
Vacant/Rulne                                                               QM~~~~~~~~~~~~-\jfCultural?y Valuable Buildig
-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
Conditions of Buildings                                                                              Culturally Valuable Buildings
World Bank- 23242
September 1981






- 79 -
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WALLED CITY - SEWERAGE AND WATER SUPPLY
Tap for
Cleansing
Wf  f   | -                t W        a~~~~-Wase Pipe                  WaundlP 
Water Closet                      Floor Level
Floor                                                               ain      Drn
Waste Pipe
Typical Section of Small Street
Squatting                                                           (Existing)
Plate                   Water
Floor                           Supply
Ground Floor Water        Water Connection            Waste
Connection             to Upper Floors             Pp
X    _                C o n          W~~~~~_T  Nevv Br ick      Profiled for_ 
Typical In-house Sanitary
Plumbing Installations
(Options)
Wate r Co n n ectilo n       - _               I nspectio n/Access
ODriginal Street Level                New Water Main
Sewer Connection
AC Pipe Laid in Old Channel
(Alternatively Raise Sides of Channel
in Rendered Brickwork with Concrete
Cover Slab)
Typical Section of Improved Street with
Sewer and Water Main
(Proposed)
September 1981                                                                         World Bank - 23040



LAHORE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SKETCH 1 -SITES AND SERVICES, TYPICAL NEIGHBORHOOD (KOOCHA) LAND USE
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F --                                                                      r 
~~~~~~~_j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIME LOCATION 15Orr2 PLOTS
(NOT SHOWN-EXIST ALONG
MAIN ACCESS ROAD)
C Eo-g2 PLOTS LOCATED ALONG
SPINE STREET INOI SHOWVN)
_____                             g~~~~~~~~~ 0~  PLOTS LOCATED ALONG
_ SPINE STREETS 7 O- WIDE
fl n2 PLOTS LOCATED IN
C   ACCESS STREETS (GALIS) 3-4Sm WIDE
OC
_   _  _   C   830m  I-  k   E  E  5 7  5 P/ m F        72r2 PLOTS
X   ACTIVITY YARD
PLAY YARD
- RELIGIOUS RITES
- MARRIAGES
OTHER SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
VEHICLE TURNABOUT AND PARKING
APpro,r.imate Scrle 1:1000
World Bank-23038
Septem~ber 1981



- 81 -
LAHORE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SKETCH 2- SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
INITIAL PROVISION AND ANTICIPATED DEVELOPMENT
*   VERANDAH ADDED FOR STORAGE
STAGED2
ADDIT IONAL ROOM CONSTRUCTED AND EXTENSION
TO VERANDAH MADE. ACCOMODATING KITCHEN
ROOF MAY NOW BE ENTIRELY OF RE-INFORCED
CONCRETE. SANITARY AREA NOW ROOFED OVER.
STAIRSTO ROOFTOP ADDED TO AVAIL UPPER
STOREY OPEN LIVING SPACE
HEIGHT OF COMPOUND WALL ALONG STAIRS
INCREASED FOR PRIVACY
/~~~~~~~~~~~~BT ADC T\\E ROO N\\\ E OF. E\
T\\ATCH /   BUILOING  TIMES LTOGSO   RROTHE'ONDA
\THEMINIMAL STRUCTUREMMORDAUTIEE ADNTING
SNE RU OM AND VERANDAH, A L- ING
NOUR \EEPUTYARD AND TPEN ENCLOSURES FoI
\\ \    /              ~~~SAT HAND WC THE RDDFMAY BE DF RE-
\\  w                 ~~~~~~~IN FDRCED (BRICK INFIL) CONCRETE ORI MUD
AS \                 ~~~~THATCH ON TIMBER LDGSODRBOTH -OUNDA-
\\ ~~~~~~~TC TiN STRUCTURHE FOR FUTURE ADDITION MIAY
\\~~~~~~~I 8BUILT                                                                          W.,rdEank 23039
INDOOR SLEEPING TAKES 'LACE ONLY IN WINTER                            Eepw-be 19SI



- 82 -
LAHORE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SKETCH 3-ON SITE DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS (72m2 PLOT)
OPTION A                                        OPTION B                                        OPTION 8
TERRACE
ROOM     o                                      ROOM
VERANDAH                                     VERANDAH                                            VERANDAH
CO,.RTYARO BATH            r~~~S;Ii~iOOURTYAR.jl                                       Z 1(11
ENTRY  w.L                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~ENTRY
STREET                             STREET
] A_ . t%X_71 ^ V 0 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAE 
STAGEI                                          STAGE I                                         STAGE 4
Room         ROOM                               ROOM         Room                            TERRACEI        ROOM
VERANDAH                                           VERANDAH                                             VERANDAH
COURTYARD
'4        N                                          COURTYARD       DATH                        1         xNN
IBATH                                          IWC.
STAGE 2                                         STAGE 2                                         STAGE S
ROOM  iTERRACE                     ~~~~Room      ROOM                            TERRACEL         Room
|VERANDAH:               l                     l       L   VERANDAH                                             VERANDAH
COURTYAR                                    
BATH
0i  E                                                      ROOM         BATH
STAGE 3                                         STAGE 3                                          STAGE 6
OPTION A                                        OPTION B
STAGE (GROUND FLOOR:                            STAGE 1 tGROUND FLOOR,                           STAGE 4 (UPPER FLOOR)
GSINGLE ROOM. VERANDAH BATH &  C                (SINGLE.HOM.VERANDAH. SAT, & WC.                 IVUEANDAH ADDED ON UPPER ELOOR)
FoUNDATION FOR AN ADDITIONAL ROO                FOUNDATIONS FOR AN ADDITIONAL ROOMI
STAGE 2                                         STAGE 2                                          STAGE S
(ADDITIONAL ROOM AND STAIR TO ROOF              tADDITIONAL ROOM, ,ITC.EN ADDED WITH             (FOURTH ROOM ADDED ON UPPER FLOOR
IMPROVEMENT TO INITIAL ROOM,                    STAIRSTO ROOF, IMPROVEMENT TO                   AT BACK OF PLOT. REMAINING ROOF
INITIAL ROOMI                                   SHIELDED FOR PRIVACY)
STAGES 3UPPER FLOOR,
INITIALLY VERANDAH LATER                        STAGE 3                                         STAGE 6
THIRD ROOM)                                     EROOM ADOED IN FRONT FOR USE AS                 (UPPER FLOOR. BATH. LAVATORY ADDED.
SITTING ROOM FOR MEN. FOR A SHOP,               FlFTH ROOM ADDED IN FRONT)
OR FOR SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIAL UNIT)
Wo,dHaB-k-23037
SepF mber 1981



83 -
LAHORE
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sl<ETCH 4 - ON SITE DEVELOPMENT (90m2 PLOT)
- 1  mo        7,.                                   KIOSKI
SHOP     I               .      GROOM                      
- - -IIIt - - - - -                                                                  }ifZ       COURTYARDS
N                      COURTYARD                                                                 COURTYARD
IL                                    VERANDAH    RO_OM!
ENT. ||                                                                          "II 1R0
STAGEI1*  N   W]CBATH|                                                                                                     3m 
STAGE 1
I L_,     _Itu                       t         |_  COURTYARDE
W ' -F X E R A N D A H //1                                                            I11\ I __ 
I 11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROOM                                              E|ROOM 
- COURTYARD -  ------  ROOM ~    ~     ~    ~    OURYAR  P- -- 
U.h
SHOP                              ERNA
ROOM                                        iVERANDAH
W.   -TATITCHENROIOM  E                                                                                  RIOOM
12m                                                     W.C. |ATFL 2m -   ,    3 
STAGE 2                                                                               W rI1
STAGE 2
TERRACE
ROOM       ROOM  v
ROOM                                    -~/////,-   COURTYARD 
~~TAGE 3                                   ROOM                             J] AT~~VERADAHROOM                   ROOM
STAGE 3                                                                               1W-CIA
STAGE 3
STAGE 1 tGROUND FLOOR)                                                           STAGE 1 (GROUND FLOORI
(SINGLE OR TWO ROOMS, VERANDAH OUTDOOR KITCHEN,                                  ISINGLE ROOM, BATH & WC., TEMPORARY KIOSK,
BATH & WC., CORNER SHOP. RUN BY FAMILY)                                          FOUNDATIONS FOR TWO INTERNAL ROOMS
STAGE 2                                                                          STAGE 2
(ADDITION OF SHOPSISMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE IN FRONT)                             (SUCCESSIVE ADDITION OF TWO INTERNAL ROOMS,
(ADDITION OF KITCHEN)                                                            VERANDAH, STAIRCASE, CONVERSION Of INITIAL ROOM TO S.S.EE)
STAGE 3
(SUCCESSIVE ADDITION OF ROOM AT REAR AND                                         STAGE 3
RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION ON TOP OF SHOPS)                                       (ADDITION OF CORNER ROOM, EXPANSION OF S.S E.I
World Bank-23036
SsPts1bel 1981






_n ST AG  ~ijtO4   ROAD                  ~                               -'~PAK  ISTAN
FIRST LAHORE
7---   ~ ~    ~        ~       ~ ~ --URBAN DEVELORPMENT PROJEC
GUJJARPURRA  EXPANSION  AREA
AsrK ' , ~   ---; 9a           :01                      ; -:--*;r -X5\                                                         SITES AND SERVICES
District Distributor Roads
;Str ~ -        t1                                                           I f  .             [i ',x;\" ................. Local Distribotor Roads
Local Roads
Kootcha Residence
II =50   _   : -  <   -   -   -  1l i    iiKootcha Ressidence (lo. income)
Residential, Prime Location
L                      ~~~~~~~~Residential, Commercial
K' 0 14 1  0              _           '                       I    - - .  D                   Residential, Small Scale Enterprise
j li :| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                      :             Commercilo
Industriol
h '   r -   I'   '          =  X        ,              S    -   C   j              CX a- ~~~~~~~~~~~Ed.catlon
iEisting Drain
Proposed Drains
Open Space, Recreation, Flood Catch-
E.iseing D-evlopments
- Esistisig Water Maine
E -   .- Eising Sewers
i                                              --- h i     E.isting Power Lines
f              2              -                .                       .    ,  - x, 
1 t0o            200      300      400
B:S~~~~~~~~~~~A
"K-'
46      -                            L-          -                   - 
K m  S X | 2 X  | t  |D
rt ~~~~~~~~~~e~~~~~'R'  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~~ 0j11,I.. .dI-
INDIA                                                                                                             E 72  ~ ,   i  *  ti
C  *  a  *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/CRd-  C...
*                                    e    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-d
or,,, o~~~~~~~~~,s,,,  MO  in M  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0~
in  '0                           is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






_  /  /                                                                     __          IBRD 1554IlR
PA< STAI
FIRST LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\9t  / ,                            Lalhore Metropolitan Area
/ /                 '            ,      ,           L     ohofe Actias   Arepj Pl1p ,,,A -
A,~o         C  ~ 
W. fvd C t Pho I     9     -:,   - b   f co -,
0,,.- [IA De,p,tC -  .VRO, C-d
1G,  E......E. A-CE~5E
Er--IC, T o,,
T   \  -               ,                                                                     *  Ineepend¢ce donument~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lk. U
5~~W             u  df8,5,  s         e 5'owllBud
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,;,-,/                                 A-, ',," "M -
,~5  [CR          C o_o,R
AAS
y   SAMANA9AD        \COLONY//          <     {BAGHEA AAA T S    ME, 
X m$~~~~~~~CT
/1     <         ~~~~~~~W./0  k     / .
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  *   , V - SOTE  ,_ ,,''NN  :   
U< _~~~~~~~~k                                                 -' s i-   , gf..........  
,                 #Gv .  w   e  ee  vo /o   ................   I     i    _) 4 t  & s Q  t S   S w 0    . I
J8JUsmeSenHRWitaXYs  HADMAN                     NO
~~~~x) ~ ~  ~      ~     E                  LONY  * o                           h E i^\                                                  St  
ANABAD ~  ~        ~       ~        ,~'       ME TOFESo~ l   2       L     l he         {  






: ''VX :'---" ''
Qj ] Q2i _                               W
;~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ .                      1,
l;E 1-:' ;A;   -';/-'W:3X;-11 
:X                                    g [57¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
C,,1 
UX        ~    ~~  ~  ~  ~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :-  'U'  



