Document of                           rnhmhm
The World Bank                               F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3499-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION (US$16.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
FOR A
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 31, 1983
|  This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1           =   US$0.077
US$1.00            Rs 13
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOPUN   -   Covernment of the Punjab
HBFC    -   House Building Finance Corporation
LDA     -   Lahore Development Authority
LMC     -   Lahore Municipal Corporation
WASA    -   Water and Sanitation Agency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                  S1R 14.R million (US$16 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         US$11.9 million would be relent to HBFC with
interest at 9% p.a. (inclusive of 0.5% to cover
the foreign exchange risk) for up to 23 years,
including three years grace.
Project Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to
strengthen the capacity of local institutions in
Lahore to prepare and implement integrated urban
development programs which will arrest the decay in
urban living conditions, improve municipal services
and develop strategies to cope with continuing urban
growth, particularly the delivery of services and
shelter to the urban poor. To achieve these
objectives the project would include: (a) integrated
physical components including upgrading of existing
facilities and provision of sites and services
schemes; and (b) training and technical assistance
to strengthen the institutions responsible for
planning, implementing and operating municipal
services, to enable them to replicate similar schemes
on a larger scale in future. The main risk to the
project would be delays arising from institutional
shortcomings in the implementing agencies, including
shortages of skilled staff and critical building
materials.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs: a/
Local     Foreign      Total
----US$ million--------
Walled City TJpgrading               3.49       0.45        3.94
Gujjarpura Sites and Services       10.46       1.81       12.27
Solid Waste Management               2.05       1.77        3.82
Studies                              0.09       0.04        0.13
Base Cost               16.09        4.07      20.16
Physical Contingencies             1.n6       0.38        1.44
Price Contingencies               1.84        0.59        2.43
Total Project Cost         18.99        5.04      24.03
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
--------US$ million--------
Federal and Provincial
Governments                        1.4                    1.4
LDA                                  4.3                    4.3
LMC                                  2.3                    2.3
IDA                                 11.0        5.0        16.0
Total                   19.0         5.0       24.0
Estimated Disbusements:
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
------------US$ million-------------
Annual                               1.5     3.9      5.2      3.7    1.7
Cumulative                           1.5     5.4    10.6      14.3   16.0
Rate of Return:                     20%
Appraisal Report:                   No. 3584-PAK, dated March 25, 1983.
Map:                                No. IBRD 15541.
a! Taxes and duties amount to about $0.9 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN" ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT TI LAHORE
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 14.8 million (UIS$16.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an urban develop-
ment project in Lahore. US8ll.9 million of the proceeds of the credit
would be relent to the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC) with
interest at 9% p.a. for up to 23 years, including three years' grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 4215-PAK, dated February 11, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on February 11, 1983.
3.      The past five years have witnessed a significant economic recovery
in Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY82 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging about
2.8% p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real
terms by 10% p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 3.8%
p.a. and in industry by 9.3% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with
the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP
averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was
negligible.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather and higher domestic demand associated
with better crops, rising rural incomes and workers' remittances from the
Middle East. Various policy changes introduced by the Government have also
contributed significantly to the recovery.
5.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3462-PAK (Reservoir Maintenance Facilities Project)
dated February 22, 1983.



-2-
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all
major crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.
At the same time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy
(which has been creating budgetary problems) and to separate it from the
development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes
in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
6.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the
water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pes-
ticides, seeds, agricultural credit, extension, research and farm
power--have also been strengthened. These initiatives are still at an
early stage and a breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the
farm level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
private sector have been widened. A wide range of incentives including tax
holidays, excise and import duty concessions, concessionary credit and
income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to
encourage private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by
a partial liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of
inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These
measures have led to an improvement in private sector confidence and to a
sharp increase in private investment, mainly in small and medium-scale
projects.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have



-3-
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain
skilled technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the
fertilizer subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity
utilization substantially in the public sector.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past five years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. The
budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 through FY82.
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79,
rose by an average of 18% p.a. during the next three years as a result of
the continued growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases and inten-
sified efforts to improve tax collections. Although political developments
outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints
were maintained on total spending; the growth of public expenditures was
limited to 13% p.a. The expansion of development and administrative expen-
ditures were restrained, while subsidies were reduced by more than 25%.
These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some
improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During
FY80 through FY82, the overall budget deficit averaged 5.7% of GNP and the
bank-financed budget deficit 1.7% of GNP; both figures are well below those
of the late 1970s.
10.     Pakistan's export performance improved considerably between FY77
and FY81. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578
million in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, also greatly assisted the
external position. These increases, however, were partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was
US$991 million or 3.3% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or
nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices.
11.      A number of developments contributed favorably to Pakistan's
ability to finance the FY81 current account deficit. These included the
conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF in Novem-
ber 1980; a positive response from aid donors to the country's improved
economic performance resulting in increased aid commitments and inflows;
and an agreement with bilateral creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for
rescheduling of debt service payments on official concessional debt falling
due over an 18-month period beginning mid-January 1981. As a consequence
of improved performance on both current account and capital account, for-
eign exchange reserves increased from US$748 million to US$1,039 million
during the year; the latter was the equivalent of about two months' worth
of import of goods and services.



-4-
12.     The balance of payments deteriorated somewhat during FY82.  The
principal reasons were a 17% decline in the value of exports coupled with
relatively slow growth of migrant remittances (6%). For Pakistan's major
exports, rice and cotton, the combination of deteriorating world economic
conditions plus output expansion in other countries led to a decline in
both unit values and volumes. For manufactured exports, the slowdown in
the world economy, together with a deterioration in Pakistan's competitive-
ness resulting from the linkage of the rupee to the US dollar up to January
1982 (the currency is now being managed with reference to a weighted basket
of currencies), led to a decline in value as compared with the previous
year. Because of the decline in world petroleum prices and import sub-
stitution in some key sectors (most particularly, fertilizers), the volume
of imports of essential raw materials and capital goods could still grow
sufficiently to provide for a real GDP expansion of 6% while the total
value of imports expanded by only 2%. Owing to the above factors, Pakis-
tan-s current account deficit rose from US$991 million in FY81 to US$1,530
million in FY82 (the latter being equivalent to 4.7% of GNP). Net inflows
of official assistance, private capital and IMF resources were not suffi-
cient to cover the increased deficit and there was a drawdown of about
US$200 million in reserves. At the end of FY82, reserves were US$840
million, the equivalent of about 1.5 months of imports.
13.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-
tially structural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments, further wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are
limiting economic growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to
sustain its recently improved economic performance over the present decade
and bring about a modest improvement in the living standards of its popula-
tion. These issues include the farm-level factors affecting low produc-
tivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial
sector; the need to improve performance of public sector enterprises; the
factors lying behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to
redirect social service expenditures; and the problems of resource mobi-
lization.
14.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Despite recent improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental
factors continue to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below
the potential implied by the resources and technologies already available.
Generally, output growth has not been commensurate with the substantial
increases in available inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While
considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on
yields at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity



-5-
is recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing
this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agricultural and
water sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be
further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and con-
sumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain below the levels
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, Fas suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets. Although there have been some recent improvements in the
output and profitability of public enterprises, these improvements need to
be carried further through appropriate reforms to remove distortions in
pricing and improve performance criteria and incentives to managers. To
assist the recovery in private investment and to maintain the increased
momentum in the industrial sector will require an adequate supply of local
and foreign financing, both for investments and current inputs, and the
more rapid provision of necessary utilities and other infrastructure
requirements. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage. Analysis is in progress to determine levels of
effective protection in order to provide the basis for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by
adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other
energy forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources,
have met with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been
restrained by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resour-
ces as well as by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity
in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint
ventures with foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of
technical, geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new
fields as well as the development of existing fields has been slow and
Pakistan-s considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be
realized. The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relat-
ing to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order
to accelerate progress.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 2.8% p.a., which has seriously
handicapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family
planning programs have so far had little effect and there have been few
changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany



-6-
declines in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on
government resources simply to maintain education and health programs at
their current inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy
rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is
doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on
social services have been low and undue emphasis has been given to higher
education and urban health facilities. The Government has recently shown
more awareness of this problem; a new and more promising population program
is in the initial stages of implementation, and several special programs to
improve basic health and education facilities were introduced in the FY83
budget, especially for rural areas.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and exter-
nal resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of pay-
ments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels
in the economy, particularly in public savings. At 12% of GNP, national
savings are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but
are still low for a country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage
of development. The continuation of the Government's recent efforts to
restrain public spending, improve the performance of the public sector and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows. At the same time, an increase in savings
inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through further
appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential
imports. Continued restraints on spending and measures to further improve
revenues through improvements in tax administration and tax and rate
increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates and irrigation
water charges) are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses,
potatoes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
well as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
sector. Increased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral
fuels and fertilizer would help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     Although, as described above, the Pakistan economy continues to
face a number of difficulties, the improvements over the past few years in
demand management and in planning, incentives and government programs in
agriculture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more
conducive to rapid economic growth and better international trade perfor-
mance, and have established an improved framework within which further



-7-
reforms can be effectively pursued. The recent government policy initia-
tives, which have been formulated in close consultation with the Bank and
Fund, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing
and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing.
21.     At the end of calendar 1981, Pakistan's external public debt
(excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which
US$4.6 billion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium,
US$1.2 billion to OPEC and US$1.9 billion to multilateral agencies and the
balance to other bilateral and private lenders. In 1981, the Bank Group's
share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 13.8% and in external
debt service was 13.3%. According to Bank forecasts, provided recent
policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt
service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor services),
which was about 12% in FY82, should rise slowly during the 1980s, even
assuming substantial commercial borrowing, reaching 15% in FY85 and remain-
ing in the 15-16% range through FY90.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other
donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the
water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for
agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and
2% for education. Lending for public utility services has included loans
and credits for railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways,
telecommunications and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy.  Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting
services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including



-8-
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important pur-
pose of this lending is to assist the Government's program to increase the
productivity of available land and water resources in the Indus Basin
through quick-yielding investments, as recommended recently in a
UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven Loans/Credits amounting to US$270
million for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), and two Credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), totaling US$50 million. Direct lending for industry has also
included assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for
small-scale industry. As of September 30, 1982, IFC had made investments
in 15 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$92.2 million, of which US$82.4
million was by way of loans and US$9.8 million by equity participations
(these are shown in Annex II). About US$33.9 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three in the
field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles, two in food and food
processing, and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, plastics, wood
processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthen-
ing the institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi
Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and
federal and provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank
Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects
respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under
the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has financed a petroleum
development project and begun to play an important role in strengthening
the Public Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assist-
ing in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan-s domestic
energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework
for increased private investment in the sector. A second water supply
project in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five credits for
education, totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary,
post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural education, mid-
dle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan-s
development through program assistance. A first structural adjustment
lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June



-9-
1982. This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
29.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some
projects have experienc&e initial delays due to protracted government
procedures for project approval, which have now been streamlined, and to
slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle
East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
30.     A number of further projects for Bank Croup financing are currently
under appraisal or bei-g prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural credit, drainage, oil and gas development, water supply and
education.  Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for
the reasons set out in Part I.  To assist the Government to finance
agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases
is justified.
31.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
32.     Pakistan's urban growth rate has averaged 4.5% p.a. during the
decade 1971-81, while total population grew at about 3.J% p.a. At present,
about 30% of Pakistan's population lives in urban areas; this is expected
to increase to approximately 40% by the end of this century. Due to rela-
tively low levels of investment in housing and urban infrastructure, a
large and increasing backlog of unmet demands for basic services has been
created, particularly in water supply, sanitation, developed land, shelter
and social services.
Lahore
33.     Lahore, the capital of the Punjab with an estimated population of
3.25 million in 1981, is Pakistan's second largest city. It is an old city
with a large, densely populated, overcrowded old town (the "Walled City")
which has been an important regional center for centuries. Because of its
historical associations, Lahore is the cultural center of Pakistan, and



-10-
there is a strong commitment to arrest the decay in its urban environment
and to preserve its heritage. During this century Lahore has become an
important industrial and commercial center for textiles, carpets, engineer-
ing and machinery industries.
34.     About 1.5 million persons, 45% of Lahore's population, live below
the estimated absolute urban poverty threshold of ITS$200 per capita per
year (1980). Half of these persons live in slum settlements (Katchi
Abadis), while the remainder reside at high densities in the Walled City
and other established areas of the inner city. In terms of basic needs,
the urban poverty group in Lahore lacks basic shelter, adequate water and
sanitation services, and has limited access to health services and primary
education.
35.     Deficiencies in housing and municipal services in Lahore are not
limited to the urban poor. There is a severe shortage of developed land
which has inflated land prices beyond the means of the majority of resi-
dents. Because of limited resources and strict collateral requirements,
less than 5% of the population have access to formal soturces of housing
credit. Existing housing programs are inadequate to cope with the demand
and the main beneficiaries of these are the upper income groups. About
25,000 houses are needed annually to cater for population increases only.
At present, the public sector produces approximately 5,000 units and the
formal private sector approximately 2,000 units. The shortfall of 18,000
units is satisfied by the informal sector in the form of Katchi Abadis and
further overcrowding in existing high-density low income areas.
36.     Sewage collection is limited and consists of an old and inadequate
piped water-borne system discharging into open drainage channels which are
often blocked by solid waste deposits. The city is generally low-lying and
extensive flooding in the rainy season discharges raw sewage into irriga-
tion canals and fields. Less than 50% of the population are served by
solid waste collection services. In unsewered areas such as the Walled
City, night soil is mixed with solid waste. Most of the uncollected solid
waste is dumped into open drains, causing blockages and stagnation and
creating severe health hazards. Only about 60% of the population have
direct access to a water distribution system which is old, with limited
storage capacity and inadequate distribution networks. Supply is intermit-
tant and pressures low. The remainder of the population depend on stand-
pipes and shallow private wells which are invariably contaminated by
sewage.
37.     Except for the new residential areas in the south and east of the
city, the road network is under-developed and inadequate. In the rapidly
expanding areas to the west and northwest of the Walled City, there is a
complete absence of major roads; streets are narrow and irregular and
access is limited to small vehicles. In the central area and particularly
around the Walled City, large numbers of animal-drawn and other slow moving



-11-
vehicles mix freely with motorized vehicles, resulting in severe traffic
congestion.
38.     Institutional Arrangements.  The Lahore Development Authority
(LDA), an autonomous body under the Department for Housing and Physical
Planning (Government of Punjab), is responsible for development planning
and implementation, including roads, land development and housing. The
Chairman of LDA is the Governor of the Punjab, and the Director-General its
chief executive. The Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA), an
autonomous agency under LDA, is responsible for the provision of water
supply, sewerage and drainage. Electricity is provided by the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA), and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines (SNGPL)
is responsible for natural gas distribution.
39.     The Lahore Municipal Corporation (LMC) is responsible for provision
of services in the municipal area such as street lights, traffic signals
and road signs, and various aspects related to health and sanitation. The
Corporation is an autonomous body under the Secretariate of Local Govern-
ment and Rural Development (Government of Punjab) and is directed by the
elected Mayor and City Council.
40.     The House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC), established in 1952,
is the only long-term housing finance institution in Palkistan. It is a
parastatal body, with representatives of the Federal Government and each of
the Provinces on its Board. Its share capital is owned entirely by the
Government, and it employs a staff of about 900 persons. HBFC's prime
responsibility is to provide finance to individuals for the construction or
purchase of houses. It also finances housing development projects through
joint investments with development authorities. Since 1979, in conformity
with the Government's policy of Islamization of the financial sector, HBFC
has changed from a basis of interest charges on investments to one of
profit-sharing. Under this system, profits (or losses) are divided on a
pre-determined basis between HBFC and the borrower according to the
assessed market rental value of the property in question. The present
level of profit-sharing yields a return to HBFC which is equivalent to a
nominal interest rate of 7%; however, this figure is lit-ely to increase as
a result of property revaluations which take place every three years.
41.     While LDA is officially entrusted with ensuring coordination of
urban development in the metropolitan area, its powers over other agencies
are limited and a number of inter-agency coordinating committees operating
at the working level have been established. Because of an acute shortage
of management personnel, inefficient organization and resource constraints,
these agencies are ill equipped to meet the present demand for services in
Lahore. Their capacity for planning and implementing development programs
is also limited. To strengthen this capacity in LDA, a separate unit was
set up which has been largely responsible for preparation of the proposed
project.



-12-
42.     Bank Group Involvement.  The Bank Group's contribution to urban
development in Lahore has been largely focused to date on the water supply
and sewerage sector. A 1967 credit of ITS$1.75 million helped to create and
equip WASA, and to prepare plans and begin first-phase construction of
water supply, sewerage and drainage works. A credit of US$26.6 million was
approved in June 1976 for the Second Lahore Water Supplv, Sewerage and
Drainage Project (Credit 630-PAK). This project was developed from an
ongoing UNDP Technical Assistance Project, for which the Bank was Executing
Agency, and includes further institutional reform and extension of water
suipply, sewerage and drainage works. The project has encountered delays in
final design and procurement and is about 24 months behind schedule but is
now making better progress, particularly with regard to the construction of
water supply facilities.
43.     Consultants financed under Credit 630-PAK were appointed in late
1978 to assist LDA in carrying out urban planning and transportation
studies to provide the basis for an urban development project in Lahore
suitable for IDA financing. The findings of these studies have helped to
initiate new responses to urban needs, as discussed below.
44.     Recent Initiatives.  A number of policy responses to deal with
problems facing Lahore have been initiated or are actively under considera-
tion by the Provincial Government and local authorities. In 1977, LDA
embarked on a Katchi Abadi upgrading program. So far this program has
benefited about one-third of the squatter population within the Lahore
metropolitan area. Recovery of the costs incurred in this upgrading scheme
has been relatively successful, as residents normally obtain security of
tenure in exchange for payment of development costs which are kept at
levels affordable to beneficiaries. This program is to be continued to
upgrade the remaining Katchi Abadis over the next few years.
45.     The Government is now turning its attention to two related areas,
the upgrading of the high-density, low income areas in the city center and
increasing the supply of serviced lots to meet the demands of the expanding
population, particularly the low income groups and small businesses. A key
element of these new policy initiatives is the strengthening of the
institutions responsible for delivery and maintenance of urban services
through improved management, mobilization of financial resources and
inter-agency coordination. The proposed project would assist the Punjab
Government and local authorities in implementing and further developing
these policies.



-13-
PART IV- THE PROJECT
46.     The project was prepared by LDA and appraised in February/March
1981.  A mission in November 1982 updated the appraisal to take account of
adjustments to the proposed size and scope of the project necessitated by
local resource constraints. Negotiations were held in Vashington from
February 14-23, 1983; the Pakistan Delegation was led by Mr. S.Y. Khan,
Chairman, Planning and Development Board, Government of the Punjab. The
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan: Lahore Urban Development
Project" (Report No. 3584-PAK, dated March 25,,1983) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Data Project Sheet
is attached at Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
47.     Given the magnitude of the problems in Lahore, efforts to upgrade
services must be incremental. Moreover, the financial constraints of all
public agencies dictate that major reliance be placed on mobilizing the
resources of local residents in the areas benefiting from these improve-
ments. The proposed project focuses on the need to develop a set of
policies, criteria and methods that would enable LDA and LMC to carry out
sustainable programs of urban service expansion and upgrading sub-standard
areas.
48.     The main objectives of the proposed project would be:  (a) to
strengthen the capacity of local institutions to prepare and implement
integrated urban development programs in Lahore which will arrest the decay
in urban living conditions; and (b) improve municipal services and develop
strategies to cope with continuing urban growth, particularly the delivery
of affordable services and shelter to the urban poor. To achieve these
objectives, the project would include: (i) integrated physical components
to be undertaken as demonstration schemes in the most critical sectors; and
(ii) training and technical assistance to strengthen the institutions
responsible for planning, financing, operating and managing metropolitan
and municipal services, to enable these institutions to replicate similar
schemes on a larger scale in the future.
49.     The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) Upgrading in the Walled City low-income area: (i) Upgrading
of about 45 hectares with a population of about 50,000 through
provision of sewerage, leak detection and replacement of water
supply, improvements to street lighting, upgrading of schools,
and provision of community centers; (ii) improvement of the
solid waste collection service; (iii) provision of investments
for house reconstruction and improvement; (iv) preparation of



-14-
a conservation plan for the Walled City; and (v) design and
supervision, community development, monitoring, evaluation and
training.
(b)  Sites and services in the Gujjarpura area:  Land development
to provide some 10,000 residential plots, of which over 4,000
would be for low-income beneficiaries in the income groups
Rs 400 to Rs 1,000 per month (7th to 50th percentile of the
urban income distribution), 200 commercial plots, 400
industrial plots and sites for education, health and community
facilities, all fully serviced with roads, electricity, water
supply, sewerage, street lighting, and solid waste collection.
The development would cater for approximately 65,000 persons.
(c) Improvements in solid waste collection: Collection, transport
and disposal of solid waste on a city-wide basis through
provision of bins and containers, vehicles, equipment for the
municipal maintenance workshops, upgrading of transfer sta-
tions, and selection of sanitary landfill sites.
(d) Technical Assistance: (i) Training, technical assistance and
studies related to the above-mentioned project components;
and (ii) preparation of a second urban project.
Project Implementation
50.     The project would be implemented by LDA, LMC and HBFC, with WASA,
WAPDA and SNGPL having responsibility for maintenance of those parts of the
completed project which fall within their relevant jurisdictions (see
paragraphs 38-40 above). LDA would be responsible for carrying out the
Walled City upgrading program; development of the Gujjarpura area; and
studies related to preparation of a second project in Lahore. The solid
waste collection program would be carried out by LMC. Investments for
reconstruction and improvement of houses in the Walled City, as well as for
the development of plots and home construction in the Gujjarpura area,
would be provided by HBFC.
UJpgrading in the WIalled City
51.     The historical Walled City, first built around the Eleventh Cen-
tury, is a congested, bustling area in which some 260,000 people live and
work. It was selected for upgrading under the project as representing the
largest single agglomeration of urban poor in Lahore, with some of the
worst environmental conditions.
52.     Population densities in the Walled City are the highest in Lahore,
averaging around 1,10n persons per hectare compared with an average of 160
persons per hectare for the inner metropolitan area. The building stock in



-15-
the Walled City has not increased in over a hundred years. The structures,
mainly of burnt brick walls and timber floors and balconies, are densely
packed into tiny plots (median size 40 sq meters each), rising generally to
3 or 4 stories. More than half the dwellings are occupied by single
households, about a quarter contain two households each, while the
remainder house three or more households each. Overcrowding in the Walled
City is serious; while the average household size is nearly 7 persons,
one-third of the population live in single room dwelling units and another
third in two-room units.
53.     As the more prosperous families have moved out of the Walled City
to areas with better amenities, the composition of the residual population
has become more and more uniformly poor. Typical houselbold incomes now
range from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000 per month and average household incomes are
approximately Rs 850 per month (the 45th percentile of the urban income
distribution), with an average income of Rs 600 per month for the head of
household.
54.     Proposed improvements under the project reflect the priorities of
the inhabitants (expressed in surveys carried out during project prepara-
tion) and would include the provision of sewerage and connection of
individual toilets to the system. Improvements to the water supply system
and street lighting systems in these areas are also proposed, together with
the upgrading of existing health and education facilities. The solid waste
collection system would be improved throughout the City. A pilot upgrading
scheme has been completed, an evaluation report on which will provide
guidance for the implementation of the upgrading component. It is expected
that the proposed infrastructure improvements will revitalize the City and
spur the inhabitants to improve their dwellings. The proposed project
would assist in this by providing, through HBFC, finance to owners for
reconstruction and improvement of damaged buildings.  TIe project would
also provide for preparation (with assistance from UNESCO) of a conserva-
tion plan to preserve the environment of the Walled City. The Government
of Punjab and LDA would be required to take all necessary action to acquire
land needed for the Walled City upgrading program, and make satisfactory
arrangements to relocate residents who would be required to move as a
result of this upgrading (Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of the draft LDA Project
Agreement).
Gujjarpura Area Development
55.     The proposed site for the Gujjarpura development scheme, located in
the northern area of Lahore, comprises about 224 ha (including some 15 ha
of existing development). It was identified as one of the few undeveloped
areas within the flood bund relatively close to business and industrial
employment where site preparation costs would be reasonable, off-site
infrastructure existed or could be provided, and land acquisition would not



-16-
present undue difficulties.  The scheme would encompass the fo 1ICwjiug four
major elements:
(a)  a sites and services component comprising about 4,150 residan-
tial plots for low income beneficiaries;
(b)  an exempt residential component comprising about 4,350 laiger
plots that would be returned to existing cloners t¾rcuig- the
Exemption Policy (see paragraphs 57-59 below);
(c)  development of some 740 plots for:  (i) setting up small'-scale
industrial units; (ii) smaller-scale establishments with
linkages with larger units; (iii) residential purposes as well
as industrial/household enterprises with owners residing on
the premises; and (iv) commerce only; and
(d) upgrading of and provision of services for areas of the site
already occupied by spontaneous residential growth (about 750
plots).
These four sub-components would be supported by necessary off-site
infrastructure and sites for common facilities, including a recreational
area; education and health facilities; community centers; and mosques.
56.     The land for the Gujjarpura scheme would be purchased under the
Punjab Land Acquisition (Housing) Act of 1973 under which LDA, by powers
granted by the Punjab Government, can acquire, for the purpose of develop-
ing housing schemes, any property on the payment of compensation at
Rs 20,000 per acre plus the assessment value of any property, crops, trees,
etc., that may exist on the land.
57.     Potential resistance on the part of owners to acquisition under the
Act, due to the wide disparity between market values and the compensation,
is countered by the official "Exemption Policy." At present, the exemption
policy allows for 30% of the original land holdings to be exempted from
acquisition but to be developed nevertheless as part of the overall scheme
and then returned to the owner in the form of serviced residential plots
against the payment of a development charge. The market value of developed
exempted plots in the project area is currently estimated to be more than
the value of the original land holding plus the development charge and is
expected to be acceptable to owners. The exemption policy provides LDA
with a practical and expeditious means of acquiring the site without a
massive investment in land acquisition for which it does not have the
resources (Rs 130 to Rs 200 million at market prices versus Rs 7 million
under the exemption policy plus Rs 38 million for the cost of developing
the exempt area). During project execution the experience of using this
policy for such a large project would be closely monitored. The results
would enable the Government to determine whether the percentage of land



-'i7-
returned under the exemption provision should be changed for ;uture
developments.
58.     LDA declared the site a controlled area in 1979 and has compiled a
registry of existing owners. The owners have been notified of LDA's inten-
tion to acquire the site under the 1973 Act, and LDA has obtained formal
Government clearance and is proceeding with land acquisition. LDA would be
required to take all necessary action to acquire the land needed for the
sites and services component, and the Government of Punjab and LDA shall,
whenever necessary, make satisfactory arrangements to relocate any legally
authorized occupants of the area who are required to move as a result of
site development (Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of the draft LDA Project Agree-
ment).
59.     With respect to the exempted plots under the project, LDA would be
required, in accordance with government policy, to return these to their
original owners at prices sufficient to recover, in the aggregate, the
costs of site preparation, on-site infrastructure (including connections to
individual plots), site design and supervision costs, menagement costs, and
interest during construction. The residential plots for low-income
beneficiaries would be sold by LDA in accordance with selection criteria,
and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, and all other
plots would be sold at fair market value (Section 2.10 of the draft LDA
Project Agreement). Standard sale agreements for all plots in the sites
and services area would be prepared by LDA in consultation with the
Association and would cover, inter alia, conditions of purchase,
re-sale/sub-letting, down payments, and construction requirements (Section
2.12 of the draft LDA Project Agreement).
60.     Under the project HBFC would make joint investments with low-income
beneficiaries to help finance on-plot development as well as plot purchase.
Each plot would be provided with individual water and sewer connections and
access to drainage in the adjoining street. The project would include
overhead electricity lines to allow easy connections, and in certain areas
gas would be available. Street lighting would be provided in all streets,
and solid waste bins would be sited so that each plot would 2be within easy
walking distance (50-100 m). The minimum plot option (72 m ), including a
building loan of US$615, would be priced at US$770, which (allowing for the
repayment terms of the loan; see paragraph 66) is affordable by some 90% of
urban households. The Gujjarpura scheme is expected to generate a surplus
to LDA of about US$9.1 million which LDA would use to finance similar
projects elsewhere in Lahore in accordance with current practice.
Solid Waste Management                                       _
61.     The project would provide solid waste services to those areas of
the city not yet in receipt of such services and to improve the level of
service to the poorest, more densely populated areas where the present



-18-
level of service is low. Small-scale demonstrations of improved waste
storage and collection systems would be implemented in pilot areas of the
Walled City and in a modern colony to assist in preparing proposals for the
extension of the modes found most suitable to cover all of the Walled City
and other suitable areas of the city in a phased and costed program. LMC
would be required to take necessary action to acquire land needed for
carrying out this part of the proposed project (Section 2.07 of the draft
LMC Project Agreement). Consultants have been appointed to augment the
data already in LMC's possession to examine in depth and propose detailed
solutions to the present problems and deficiencies in solid waste manage-
ment.
62.     Provision would be made for the supply of tipping trucks and front
end loaders for the collection, transportation and disposal of wastes;
these vehicles would more than double the capacity of LMC's existing fleet
of fixed chassis trucks. The project would also provide transport for
supervisory staff at all levels to improve efficiency, and for handcarts,
improved brushes and miscellaneous equipment for sweepers to increase
productivity. The project would include civil works for upgrading vehicle
workshops to improve maintenance; for three zonal vehicle parks with first
line servicing equipment to improve vehicle utilization; for six large
transfer stations so that wastes collected in the city area by sweepers,
bullock carts or other short haul vehicles could be bulk loaded to more
distant landfill sites; and for the provision of control points and access
roads at such sites. Additional waste storage containers, both fixed and
portable, would be provided. A program of training for LMC staff is
included under the project.
Technical Assistance and Training
63.     Technical assistance and training are included under each of the
individual project components. US$0.1 million is specifically provided for
overseas and local training courses for executing agency staff in urban
planning. In addition, funds would be provided to prepare a second urban
project. In order to assist LDA and LMC in carrying out their respective
parts of the project, LDA and LMC would employ necessary consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Association (Sections 2.02 of the draft LDA and LMC
Project Agreements).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
64.     Total project costs, including contingencies and taxes, are
estimated at US$24.0 million. Taxes and duties amount to about US$0.9
million, and the foreign exchange component to US$5.0 million. Detailed
cost estimates are shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Base costs
have been calculated on estimated December 1982 prices. The average



-19-
man-month cost for local consultants is US$3,350; for expatriate consult-
ants the man-month cost (including travel and allowances) is US$9,500.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of base costs for civil
works and equipment, except for the Walled City upgrading component where
the rate is 15%. Price contingencies for internationally procured equip-
ment have been estimated at 8.0% for 1983 declining to 6% in 1986 . For
civil works and on local costs, an 8.5% annual increase has been allowed
for 1983 declining to 6% in 1987.
65.      The project would be financed by the Government, LDA, LMC, and IDA.
The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 million would finance 69% of project
costs (net of taxes) and would cover 100% of estimated foreign exchange
costs (US$5.0 million) and 58% of local costs. An amount of about US$11.9
million from the Credit would be onlent by the Government to HBFC under an
Investment Agreement, to finance 65% of the Gujjarpura sites and services
component (infrastructure) and 100% of house building investments in Guj-
jarpura and house improvement and reconstruction investments to residents
of the Walled City upgrading area. The execution of this Investment Agree-
ment would be an additional condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). LDA would finance 35%
of the Gujjarpura sites and services scheme from its own resources. The
balance of the IDA credit (about US$4.1 million) and the Government con-
tribution of US$1.4 million would be made available, through the Punjab
Government (GOPUN), to LDA for the Walled City infrastructure upgrading
and studies; and to LMC for 51% of the cost of the solid waste management
component. LMC would finance the remaining 49% from its own resources.
Onlending Terms
66.      Under the Investment Agreement (paragraph 65 above), HBFC would pay
the Government a return equivalent to interest of 9% p.a. (inclusive of
0.5% p.a. to cover the foreign exchange risk). The investment would be
repayable over the life of the project (i.e., 23 years, including a
three-year construction period and a 20-year repayment period for
individual beneficiaries). HBFC would invest these funds as follows (Sec-
tion 2.01(b) of the draft HBFC Project Agreement):
(a)  jointly with LDA for area development of the Gujjarpura expan-
sion scheme, an amount of US$7.7 million at a rate of not less
than 12% p.a. with a three-year grace period and repayment
of principal over a period of three years;
(b) jointly with residents in the Walled City, for house recon-
struction, an amount of IJS$1.5 million repayable over a period
of up to 20 years on HBFC's current income sharing basis
(paragraph 40); and



-20-
(c) jointly with beneficiaries for house building investnierit In
the Gujjarpura expansion scheme, an amount of US$2.7 ni11br;
on the same terms as in (b) above.
The execution of an agreement between HBFC and LDA covering the Investments
referred to in (a) above would be an additional condition of Credit Eff&'(-
tiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.     By December 31, 1983, HBFC would be required to establish and
maintain, on a basis satisfactory to the Association, a revolving fund into
which would be deposited repayments of principal to HBFC from the ultimate
investment beneficiaries. These funds would be used to make investments
for the financing of future urban projects in Pakistan (Section 2.03 of the
draft HBFC Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
68.     About 73% of total project costs would be recovered directly from
beneficiaries through plot charges and sale of plots in Gujjarpura (100% of
this component-s costs would be recovered); connection fees; investment
repayments; and the increase in assessable annual rental values resulting
from the proposed improvements in the Walled City which would produce an
increase in property tax to LMC and In water revenues to WASA (76% of the
costs of the Walled City component would be recovered).
69.     In the Walled City upgrading area, the cost of improvements to the
water distribution network and the cost of sewer installation would be
recovered through connection fees, water and sewerage tariffs and, together
with the cost of improvement to footpaths, electricity supply and street
lighting and solid waste collection, through increases in property tax
resulting from reassessment of the Annual Rental Values (ARVs). By Decem-
ber 31, 1983, the Government of Punjab, assisted by LDA, would furnish to
the Association a plan for recovering these development costs and, on
completion of the Walled City upgrading component, the Government and LDA
would review whether the fees, tariffs and taxes are adequate to recover
the development costs and, if necessary, make appropriate adjustments to
these fees, tariffs and taxes (Section 2.11 of the draft LDA Project Agree-
ment). The Government of Punjab would also review the upward revaluation
of ARVs to ensure that the resulting increase in taxes is sufficient to
recover the costs of the improvements. The reassessment of ARVs would also
increase water and sewerage tariffs, which are based on ARVs.
70.     The costs of developing the Gujjarpura sites and services area
would be recovered by LDA through the sale of commercial, industrial and
some residential plots at market prices, development charges for those
plots set aside for existing landowners, and the sale of plots to
low-income beneficiaries.



-21-
Accounts and Audits
71.     Consultants have been appointed to study LDA's organization,
management and finances (the OMF Study). Their interim report highlights
the fact that LDA's present single-entry bookkeeping system provides insuf-
ficient information for sound management decisions and gives no clear
picture of assets and liabilities. The report recommends that LDA adopt a
double-entry bookkeeping system which should be subject to audit by an
independent firm of chartered accountants. Under the project, LDA would be
required to complete the OMF Study, by December 31, 1983, and carry out
during implementation of the project such recommendations arising out of
the study as deemed appropriate by the Association and LDA (Section 3.02 of
the draft LDA Project Agreement). LDA and LMC would prepare quarterly
progress reports for their respective parts of the project, covering physi-
cal and administrative progress and including project financial statements.
These reports would be submitted to the Association no later than six weeks
after the end of each quarter (Sections 2.07(a) and 2.06(a) of the draft
LDA and LMC Project Agreements, respectively). LDA and LMC would maintain
separate records for their respective project activities and both these
implementing agencies, as well as HBFC, would have their accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; certified copies of these audited financial
statements would be submitted to the Association no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft LDA
and LMC Project Agreements and Section 4.02 of the draft HBFC Project
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
72.     Goods, equipment and materials financed under the project would
be grouped to the extent practicable to attract competitive bidding. In
the Gujjarpura area development, civil works contracts for trunk
infrastructure would be let on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines; design/build con-
tracts would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding. Civil works
for the solid waste management component would consist of a number of small
contracts (total value about US$1.3 million) which would be unlikely to
attract foreign contractors; these contracts would be let on the basis of
local competitive bidding. Construction in the Walled City upgrading
(about US$0.5 million) would be carried out by LDA through force account
due to difficulties of planning and scheduling the work in the narrow
confines of the City and of finding contractors willing to undertake such
work at competitive prices. Supply of equipment for the Walled City
upgrading (total value about US$0.4 million) would consist of a number of
small contracts spread over about three years which would be let on the
basis of local competitive bidding. Procurement of imported equipment for
the solid waste component (total value about US$2.8 million) would be let
on the basis of ICB. Locally produced building materials (e.g., bricks,



-22-
sand, cement), small items of equipment for the solid waste component (such
as handcarts and miscellaneous tools), and office equipment/vehicles for
the executing agencies would he purchased by local shopping after obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers.
73.     Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be made for:  (a)
55% of civil works; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported vehicles, equipment and materials; (c) 100% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured vehicles, equipment and materials; (d) 65% of
the total cost of locally procured goods and materials; (e) 100% of total
expenditures for consultants services and training; and (f) 100% of
amounts disbursed by IlBFC for housing investments.
74.     Reimbursement against housing investments by HBFC would be claimed
on the basis of a certified statement of expenditures which would include a
list of investments disbursed during the reporting period and evidence of
disbursements by the relevant agency. Other documentation relating to the
investments would be retained in one central location and made available to
Bank staff on request during progress review missions. Disbursements for
civil works on force account would also be made against statements of
expenditure certified by the project manager.
75.     Retroactive financing, to January 1, 1982, in an amount not exceed-
ing US$1 million, is proposed for project related expenditures for consult-
ing services for final design of the sites and services component and for
implementation of the first part of the Walled City upgrading scheme.
Benefits and Risks
76.     The proposed project would represent an important step towards
strengthening the capacity of local institutions to undertake urban plan-
ning and implement development projects in Lahore. The training and tech-
nical assistance components of the project, coupled with the experience
to be gained from implementation of the physical components, are expected
to enhance the capability of the institutions responsible for urban plan-
ning, management and finance. The direct benefits of the proposed project
would be:
(a)  the improved living environment and sanitary conditions of
about 50,000 persons in the Walled City;
(b)  the provision of basic infrastructure and shelter services
to some 65,000 people in the Gujjarpura sites and services
area; and
(c)  city-wide improvements in sanitary conditions through improved
garbage collection service.



-23-
77.     These physical components would demonstrate the effectiveness and
replicability of programs involving appropriate design and planning stand-
ards which are affordable to low-income beneficiaries and which thus
achieve cost recovery.
78.     The combined economic rate of return for the Gujjarpura sites and
services component and that of the Walled City upgrading scheme is
estimated at about 20%.
79.     The main risk to the project arises from shortages of qualified
staff in dealing with integrated urban development programs. The provision
of consultant services and training under the project would minimize this
risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC), the Associa-
tion and Province of Punjab and Lahore Development Authority (LDA), and the
Association and Province of Punjab and Lahore Municipal Corporation (LMC),
respectively, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
81.     Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are: (a)
approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the project; 1/ and (b) the execution of:
(i) an Investment Agreement between the Government and ITBFC; and (ii) an
Agreement between HBFC and LDA covering investments for site development in
the Gujjarpura area (Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
82.     I am satisfied that the.proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan's
approval procedures.



-24-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 31, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANM.  I
^ 25                                Page 1
TABLE 3A
PAICISTAN- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LlA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)PAIISTAN                                            REFERENCE QO(UPS (WIVGHTED AVERCiS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. sH.)                                    ~~~~~~~- HOST RECENT ESTlIMATE)-
TOTAL           803.9                                MOST RECENT         LOW IKCOME          MIDDLE INCoWE
AGRICULTURAL    249.9              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA 4 PACIFIC
GC? PER CAPITA (US$)                 70.0       130.0    300.0              261.4                   *90.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS (F  COAL EQUIVALwNT)    132.4      190.6    209.2              448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAriON. HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 65851.0    60449.0  82153.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1       24.9      28.2               17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    134. 5
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                      308.0
YEAM STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      57.0        75.2      99.2             158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. Km. ArRICULTURAL LAND    200.4      248.9    316.9              355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STHUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.8        46.3      46.5              36.8                    39.9
15-64 YnS.                        51.8        50.5      50.7              59.7                    56.R
65 YRS. ANU ABOVE                  4.4         3.2       2.8               3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.8       3.1               2.0                     2.3
URBAN                             4.6         4.0       4.3               3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.3        47.4      43.6              29.3                    31.R
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.3        19.9      16.0              11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.7         3.5       3.0               2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      .       1908.1   2085.0/         
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)   ..                   6.07T            19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0       102.0    101.0              106.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  87.8        97.1      98.8/d            97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAS PER DAY)          58.1        59.8     62.8Td             56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      23.3        20.1      19.97d            20.0                    13.9
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    25.4        21.5      17.8              10.9                     6.7
IHEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.3        46.2      49.8              57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         161.5       143.0    125.5               59.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
OPLULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        21.0      29.0              32.9                    32.0
URRAJ                              ..        77.0      60.0              70.7                    51.9
RURAL                              ..         4.0      17.0              22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         3.0       6.0              15.1                    37.7
URUAN                              ..        12.0      21.0              72.7                    65.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..               4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5396.8      4299.1/f  3775.1/. f        3297.8                  5540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    16961.B    13306.07M  1003O.37it        4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1794.5    160.1    1903.4/. f          1100.4                  1047.5
URLAN                           506.8       648.1     712.97 ~T         301.3                   651.6
RURAL                              ..    12476.5   1187D.lz             5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED          ..          ..        ..                ..                    27.0
MOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOtAL                             5.4         5.3
URAN                              5.6         5.5
RURAL                             5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NMUSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             3.1         2./        ..
URBAN                             3.1         2.
URBAL                             3.1         2.1        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP WELLINGS)
TOTAL                              *-        17.9,*
UaNAN                              ..        54.4        ..
RURAL                              *          4.9        *



26
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Pagq  2
PAxKI STXr1-CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAXISTAN                       RIEtERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
MOSTSTAN   RECENT        - MOST XECENT ESTIMATE4!
MOST XECENT          LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIHATE /b      ASIA 4 PACIFIC       ASIA 4 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EItOLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 30.0        44.0      56.0               97.4                96.2
KALE                 *6.0        62.0      81.0              101.0                 99.8
FEMALE               13.0        24.0      31.0               87.8                 92.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        14.0      16.0               53.0                 37.6
KALE                 18.0        22.0      24.0               63.6                *1.1
FEHALE                3.0         6.0       8.0               41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL ENkOL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   1.0         1.5       1.4                1.7                 20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           38.6        61.5      40.1               37.7                35.5
SECONDARY                         24.0        19.8      18.7               20.2                 25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.0/h      20.7/1    24.0               52.1                 73.1
CONSUnPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.5         2.6       2.8/c              1.5                 9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0        17.1      65.8               35.4               116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.6       9.4                3.2                37.6
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 13.2          ..      13.7               16.4                53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8         3.Oj     2.4                3.6                 2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAJOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   14447.7    17364.1  22717.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   8.6         9.3      10.2               29.5                33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        59.0      57.0               70.0                52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        19.0      20.0               15.0                17.9
PART1CIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5        28.7      27.7               40.0                 38.5
MALE                                55.2        50.4      47.2               51.8                 50.5
FEMALE                               5.7         5.5       5.9               23.8                26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.7       1.8                1.0                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PEXCENT OF PRIVATE DICO
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OIP HOUSEOLDS   20.3/k      17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF OWUSEHOLDS  65.37w      41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 71       8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.t        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCoC
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        68.0/i   176.0              133.8               194.7
RURAL                               ..        *7.O0   122.0               111.5                155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        34.0/1    88.0                 ..               178.2
RURAL                               ..        22.07I   58.0                  ..                166.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URSAN                               ..        42.0/1    32.0               43.6                24.4
RURAL                               ..        43.071    29.0               31.7                41.1
Not available
lo t appI icabla.
NOTES
/a   The groop averages for each Indlestor are population-vweghted arithmetic meaDn. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends On availability of data and Is not unifogm.
/b   Unless othervisa noted, datt for 1960 refer to any yoer betweae  1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent E mat e, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1975; /d 1977; /o 1976; /f Ragietered  not all practieing In the country; jj 1973;
/h 196r, /1 197r  2 196r  /k 1964.
Mey, 1982



-27 -                                                                    ANNE( I
Page 3
One.s: Al1...66 t. date a". 418.  It." ack.1261 V66.Iiy j..p4 lb. a."66 ..Oh.6666t.5.  *66  related.. it0 .66-.4 M660 hO asked 226*1 lb.. hey 6t 6. 6664...
666.2... I..6s Iaoo . 46c -66   of46  If .   or666..  1.         daf664.  664616.0626or.61i           a)., 4662....... b      O~~ - 06,011066Lo ..         .d.od
0  .3ma.bo...  t,.   n   2 .         o-eM w l   .o..t.lAsi,  LAwil,*2 61  661-4.1 w   .    222 8o,i    .*.601. I. 064 11666  46,6ot 661,00.06004a0. misi                    4000
04 61. .r1)46 do666,1ar  it)np b.? *mAP466v    - 26. .6    2  bp.,6 -r.              ad*446.  4#,4. toi.7    - SoIh  £ .2.. 04a 4442., !T0   2  66.60  tha  ch. 92 6.66y .4lo0
6.l..2,6,  02,.1..661    .26.,.rw4...  1..  ..    666   .2.l.v26*4*616 af                                      .. died  6g".  t        Is6610  04dd  l6acoe cil ac04 i,
ack16  .26..o6s61.l.le   aes d. ..6.  b6   66666?   4,666 61596  .   66620   05ls   6S6.  4.50.4. .6 6d M.62.b667  .6  06
606  2 t  661618.  0,615  SAt  . *.,* '6   " 666 1.1611.4     .   t1*0.. 6666 6646.-02.6. .1.,.  Its.    *rftt. lsa...  m2       ed 660,   to.  m6l64  61.7 66r2 do
coa  t *.1 .ol.r 6t.       .0a lbe.. otnf p sd y.  .L.et  p.A *eo...1t    w..T.   "as-a-1,amlI1   owi     w..
10*2b6..664 .q.6..2:1                                                                                             6I62,     -  6  .,.±              0               'I- ,o I6 .. 21.62
%ir6.."Ant,.   .If. m. .1.  .gt..Ito.k J.d  ....   6....Wass  la .rn.; ll .fnt*.2.b.                                 %.62   66446606  .660.  64  50.284664.  6466
66666266064 h5.1-64664  416..o (297440  1.66.;  90.64 mdl.)......d P.......2 swa.62old 6."' 51.6de6..4.6
2gO.66  2.4.1.                                                              20l   6.61.,  6010.64526. 66.6.42t o t,  ...-6.6lS-e
21.  052. .  -214.   ~l.                             :=O..14
Pm  ,.,ka---;.  as. a,,d %,*6... 6,. 2 6..b.6 2-ro. ELA04.h...6.62    .b.. 64  .6*2
51 6      b    ?.0. 6067612           06.. I. h16  .02po.2116-                                  1.660.4 Ad61    "1   -I064                  Mo P6466*.s ,,1 .6 2dr166496611
*FI   ~iiiUoWi~   6.8  S.  afec  66r*h2 67  0 46.                          s.  6.11.66  in!.   £y al.1 -AA- 24.d..   rmynt1666.46,
.060 .266..;  1.0.1410  ..42     A. 4 O1 .                                             61.1k16.6,14206 11126166i 46666,06o
,,Jt,j4Jg~j2o6.                                                                   44!91f..f669.rfLtt1666.1 ..ra-16        I.   646..                      16r.  66
666M      16?200-  ,6.1    4021w.*06666m 61  ao  .   60                                                                                                                4A2A2id gu66632622.66..ts.!.s64c6..~Ao
6,665  464s61*60h~dl  1666566*4616666.662W             .,4 6.661261, ; 666.6            406622f     win -0..I 66.662   i-, &12666.Jil 2.. 6..rnn   t666.  6
46..6  .6p600166 lwot  ded6662  OlO  ,.y 62.o o-f-blb...262   61.t.o64606
6.; 262. *tpoloSn.f 61 #1.1I6 n 661665  6t  ,06lc46  641   *66.                       16661   2642   1  (,o61    od.           2 6.66l  .6..66 ..
t,06(6   0216   6*6.6    ..66                    e!      A6,n  4attle.. 690                    E2  61.2  .661..    l  *:        .626=   66M666sof ,           r
ml,. 66,666.6   76660 6..c0 ..0 ... 0662y  2 ... 6614261far. 1cPI.66 ".. to461666                      ..2-6    .2t..                                       ..*21262..  624ll  6646
0666 6061.                                                                                  .46,2 16  r0q,2ron~Inc            66.6   *46-6.P  .6.4.L 6,,16666TI.
70. 162616, no2a26, 660661.  .79  1661 66666  6116al  642.166                                666,4--sa.)  ,..y.12 t              16-1. L-616661-t0106662. 4642
662666 0222 1. .6.*24                                             .s..22y .2  12 66 2740666 .6 .40; ,.I...o Psm,a...*1oim                  l.
406  `6 a. ... 2000o..2 th60  - r   .-              t1,.562n220                                616   lose P-     t 4p .1,6b.166  .....1.66  %.I.((   .I 26666
66~ .26660? *66 51666.6166240666612 -  421246.  (0-6 m6601.2   .66646.  (3)".           p,06   64... 4 1~.6., 466.'               b  664.. .29-- 10.61..  3.t.11.
2*61.6. 2940,29660. ..4  6604.1..                                     ASIP 20?4cL2 6s,Af. -u62.I . 226666  14-.26              2   666 6664.64.266,62 il
Wui61.      w 166  Oh   061661      6612     .66.f.6t  666  .   6.264                           46*46,0666    If16.156.66. re-'. t.                  69ve.s4 666.1
70*? ~ ~ ~         ~          ~           ~         ~          ~        ~        ~       j          of42.66.116 96642 50.16.564 21260
aV Mo.   Ad10      I. 1 ...4. 290-r. 646- 297640.        v66....6I66? 28,. 266? 666*004 606.2.11.,...- 4...                                              ...6 66.6  . ceM IM .  L.60
~Z)~,jj766jt~,%~..1-o04 62 I ..1.26.6   #64. 666646.6*4.2.4-66                                 6666061  266e        11  66615666* 66.4446    626                  L..  .666
Io.M6  MO*F14*7290.  71440 A.0M..                                                                .6616160?7 o 16h16.
rj,M_6,.~ 0..24466  .  1.6*6 -h                      .k   F6.0.              ~         3   0*6ll120  666.I666066816.  -66   Ipt C. 6.62.d6. "i.)6.2
Po 4-10.6 1900 .   goo           500, 0615  ?29021..6   50.0666.666..1                                          31.y6mI
.16266 9.016602 466.260. 04.6 00664 d.......8202 60,266 42*066666  111.6.             666)p016   .    6.6   W12216.  66c..0 o-kia 0200646101006
*12  6613.4.666 1  .8   *0  46it,                                                        '1W1161.6"  1  I6. 24. .6 2y "ah    A --    066.6    6.010.    66 Y 8pt be 4.26o.4 o all64,2420
41.1 ch0-b. 0     .   66N4    01.13., 66 6.   .24.  6o   6   6664 6,,4o                       t166664£1                4jcl..AAd1   vr    . 1iii1ii263.4.. Id.  64A  . 41 TV06  663.60
410062666  01662.    801d,60646.1  604  20.5 . 6*0610                                            664 046266                                        of1666.
66**000.66264642.  4666666*666 4P164*.166. 662 665b 1moral*6Physicl f26,1.6664al66
066266001 66466840 416406066 466660 mithIst 2442-62 ~. 21. of4v,21.0 t  $.AAAP .% I,1 6                 0aftm.~j   at 0.w666lo4264 6161  ".060.          ad661
605C     ,2O   .6 Mm 4M M SNUUM.V.44     3.6.2122   2. ow0    40wW1 - A666..616441006   826 to*666-6.  *26.16.- Maddidach .6  theas.40
60616   461.6.  266.1.0.56642408...4*    e,.0.                                              .l.b n 2-6.1. 2406 6.1666 6650d  6666  662 41o1.2  ab.20
9adds harc    .604d. 2gg.46p6606166   *    di66  3. rP416616 1.6.   661.16                         SJ*AitI2s2      4.   .6.61641626   06dl,   1e    6
.64  8*   60121.10.  2 44*1*10.646*2)l*  1  50600  6566W sl 66661 666641066..7   66   864066  p666604                                            6 .1  soil66.6
1.061646062   6622.2900   291...                                                          2940  291  0421040
6""'L"6..70S..  6 16624662,41".   414p.p    6068.2-,04                                            61.0, 6Lat. 6.4 2950 46. 10064101.04                 11.P612466644
0266  41 Liked6L. .260.25,. *-4.66064600 1.                          .0  604                      6622.66  6666  666 o6b.66  f... 4*66,66p-669.            of 2. b4 6666 1506 . 
66646666666664426   .6P6   6  417. 2 Po42  2910 664 2912- 4.06.                         202-lacsel
2 -6o1a4 6*61  I4 106066 586  1110 6666342.46002Il6ly6    hoao  1.ttP60160 0  P6166 21041660k 26.1  66, Pij51-,9j~41a      t. 1.1604by 666f.1.
666266 4.666 4.666604 2164 22666 646102 2440. 6910 04 t290   P.6 .,                42p 1.I..*66b.14..Iaitac
E1lLJ.1I.         ofakl   ,    O ,281 b26I6101.666*. .64ed 66*66*2                 .                                                  dayIt262146961  4.   2.  64662..20    0,663*  ta006
1.666660662.. 6.6i2  ,iI0Vi40ut.2 .fL666.666.4266006  00.2.                               .666,46626
06106  6644,47     a 2666666466 16 I660        .,:I*c'01666   661.60 i86 a1.  mprobe .664      1o104,,et" 6v           Su.ltan 6 .60  t..*  6160 6.1 2.661. Ida 666666 aft.6     A
666002* 06 66604401 2.140    *6  ho100666266     .666    1.                                 26.6) 62142 042A6666.L a. 650.601..6 6...     5.6*              w166
0.*4064  6 .2.as)   6666, 66 w*,'!16   0206662   t0666     chastit  of cook2 66.6           fj0)j5ad*2l4. 60,0P661.j6   .6    0,lL.
2,3627'. 0016666 66040.-    d.                       .,  s         a
#10.66510 10 -    5266660o.2 16o6.*61..2t662- o.                  ,31 ..._,0 ad
166 3.6t.1l,13....~~~~~~~~~~~190  lA   **a..                                              dr    _
,~1221.5Ll~1lZ2j.h~    4.022010 466,4d   h7t" .0.66  46.366   b                                                                 0400*2. -*114100242106*a          ftwo01.
21*660 9011666421608 046666  ..ba6  *1 6.6.616666, 20'6 '                                                         566.666*6621 A.*6y.2.' 666. 4.266606  10066*6
66066966Pts -  6*16164,60*1n 62466.6.16                                                                                                    by ,
063660406020  01.4618166 666.6666. 66662666060166606. 5?6.125*I 0616*0 04~~~~~~~~sr"   &,,  "M.M.
..1.1     tha6P6.623.61*..r.....



- 28 -                                   ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMFNT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82                                ANNUAI RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ billion    %                   1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82
GNP at Market Prices               31.68     100.0                       3.5               6.3             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment           5.14       16.2                     -5.5               5.4           11.9
Gross National Saving               3.70      11.7                      -2.1               8.2             8.0
Current Account Balance           -1.53       -4.8
Resource Gap                       -3.48     -11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81 /a
Value Added          Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ million    %    US$ million    E    ITSS million    x
Agriculture                        7,825      29         13.5       51          580        58
Industry                          6,827       26          5.2       20        1,313       131
Services                         12,053       45          7.9       29        1,526       152
Total/Average                  26,705       no0        26.6      100        1,004       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                Central Government
(Rs billion)             % of GDP                (Rs billion)             % of GDP
1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981-82          1981/82       1981/82   1977/78-1981/82
Current Recepts                    51.2           15.9           15.8               39.0           12.1            12.4
Current Expenditures                44.4          13.8           14.1                34.1          10.6            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.8           2.1            1.7                 4.9           1.5             1.8
Capital Expendtures                27.0            8.4            9.3                21.2           6.6             7.4
External Assistance (net)            6.3           2.0            2.8                 6.3           2.0             2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82 b/
Money and Ouasi Money                         33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5     90.7    103.5    114.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            17.5      22.7      29.5      34.3      43.1     4R.1      54.1      59.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         19.7      23.1      30.1      35.7     42.7      50.6      58.7      70.7
Money and Ouasi Money as % GDP                29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0     38.3      37.0      35.5
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70=100)          211.3    229.4    255.3    271.4    289.7    316.7    359.8    398.6
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                         23.6       8.6      11.3       6.3       6.7       9.3     13.3      11.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)            21.2      29.4      18.8      16.6      25.6     11.6      12.5      10.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)         26.3      17.3      30.3      18.6      19.6     18.5      16.0      20.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional
February 1983



ANNEX I
- 29 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
.(Us$ sillion)                                  MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1981/82)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81 /a  1981/82                                         US$ million          x
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,404    1,651      2,107    2,955    3,461          2,966         Raw Cotton                      260.5           11.5
Imports of Goods, NPS              2,877    3297    4485    5,709    6,466               6,613         Cotton Yarn                     181.3            8.0
Cotton Cloth                    230.4           10.2
Resource Gap (deficit * -)        -1,473   -1,646   -2,378   -2,754   -3,005            -3,847         Rice                            382.7           17.4
All Other Commdities          1 196 .9          52.9
Interest Payments                   -172       -183      -261      -285      -357         -453           Total                                        100.0
Workers' Remittances                  578    1,166    1,395       1,748    2,097         2,225
Other Factor Payments (net)            15        62       134       151       274          345                  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net Transfers                          .. n i     l io
US$ million
Balance on Current Account        -1,052       -601   -1,110   -1,140        -991       -1,530
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed          8,813.9
Direct Foreign Investment                   ..        ..             ..        ..            ..        Non-guaranteed Private Debt /e                   ..
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                      961       841        813    1,134        956        1,102           Total Outstanding and Disbursed          8,813.9
Amortization                      -175      -122      -235      -310       -516         -492
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Sub-Total                          786       719       578        824       440          610                                                   Percentage
Transactions with IMF/b                44        41       -14        78       315           358
Public Debt, Including Guaranteed            12.2
Other Items n.e.i. /c                  24       163       238       600       527          364         Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)              198      -322       308      -362      -291           198          Total                                       12.2
Gr,ss Reserves (year end)/d           372       694       386       748    1,039           841         IBRD/IDA LENDING (DECEMBER 1981) (US$ million)
IBRD    IDA
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                     1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8       1.8          1.8         Outstanding And Disbursed              310.1   908.8
Undi*bursed                             32.1   505.3
Outstanding, Including Undisbursed 342.2 1,414.1
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum Inports                     413       497       539    1,237      1,602        1,683
Petroleum Exports                      27        63        61       178       160          185
Rate of Exchange
Through May 11, 1972    May 11, 1972-Feb. 15, 1973    Feb. 15, 1973-Jan. 7, 1982               January 8-Aug. 31, 1982 Average
US$ - Rs 4.7619                US$ - Rs 11.00                     US$ - Rs 9.90                        US$ - Rs 11.46
Rsl - US80.2100                Rsl - US$0.0909                    Rsl - US$0.1010                      Rs  - 0.087
/a Government estimate.
T7 Including Trust Fund.
/c Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
7T Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
7e Private debt is negligible.
/f Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker's remittances;
not including short-term or IMP changes.
/g Since January 8, 1982, value of rupee is being managed with reference to a
weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.



30 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                  Undis-
Number     Year    Purpose                                 Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty-four loans and credits fully disbursed /a          635.8           720.7/e
1107      1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                  53.0             --       0.7
1208T     1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                     --    32.0       --       1.6
620        1976   Seed Project                            --               23.0    6.5
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply              --               26.6    4.6
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)        --               14.0    6.7
1366T     1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)           --    10.0       --      9.3
1372)     1977   Railways                                 35.0             --       1.0
684 )     1977   Railways                                 --               25.0    1.1
678        1977   Third Education                         --               15.0    7.0
751       1977   Hill Farming Development                 --                3.0    1.6
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --               70.0   68.8
755       1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment           --                1.7    1.4
813        1978   Punjah Ext. & Agric. Dev.               --               12.5    7.2
846        1978   Fauji Fertilizer                        --               55.0    3.4
867        1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development              --               30.0    0.9
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   58.5
892        1979   Primary Education                       --               10.0    8.3
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --                9.0    9.0
957        1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)         --               30.0   10.8
968       1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      --               45.0   36.6
974       1980   Third Highway                            --               50.0   39.7
1019      1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           --               40.0   16.9
1109/d    1981   Vocational Training                      --               25.0   24.8
1113/d    1981   Small Industries                         --               30.0   29.9
11577-    1981   Grain Storage                            --               32.0   32.0
11587w    1981   Agricultural Research                    --               24.0   24.0
1163/d    1981   On-Farm Water Management                 --               41.0   38.8
11867     1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --               30.0   30.0
2122      1982   Telecommunication IV                     40.0             --     40.0
2166      1982   Structural Adjustment                    60.0             --     59.1
2172/f    1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 --     38.5
12397W /d 1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                   40.0   40.0
1243/b /d 1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.          --               14.0   14.0
1255/     1982   Structural Adjustment Credit             --               80.0   80.0
12567      1982   Technical Assistance Credit (SAL)    --                   7.0    7.0
12787d    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                 --               50.0   50.0
Total                                                    862.3  ,2_.0  1,613.5  M.7
of which has been repaid                               447.3   --        30.5
Total now outstanding                                    414.9  42.0  1,583.0
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                        --      --       --     --
Total now held by Bank and IDA7W                         414.9  _2_.  1,583.0
Total undisbursed                                        139.3  10.9    659.5  809.7
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustment.
Th  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The
principal is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation.
Undisbursed amounts are computed at the August 31, 1982, rate of 1.07234.
/e  By using the rate at August 31, 1982, 1.07234, $41 million was disbursed
under Credit 1066-PAK, now fully disbursed. This amount is shown as
current principal for 1066-PAK.
/f  Effective on October 21, 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel          0.63      --        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles                0.75      --        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25    0.42        5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            --      0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       19.35    0.84      20.19
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                 5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food         2.40    0.38        2.78
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and          29.00    1.82      30.82
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-      1.78      --        1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board          Particle Board        2.70      --        2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady           Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                3.60      --       3.60
Total Gross Commitments                     82.43    9.83      92.26
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                48.85    1.02      49.87
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          33.58    8.81       42.39
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.36    0.35      17.71



- 32 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771          Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed
in June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool was
completed in 1982. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Con-
struction of a second power plant with four units is in progress. All
Credit proceeds have been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the
Tarbela Development Fund.
Loan No. 1107           Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May
15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
This project has been completed.
Loan No. 1208-T         Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
All major works have been completed. One outstanding retention
payment for about US$650,000 is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Credit No. 620          Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29,
1976; Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have continued to be experienced in the construction and
equipping of processing plants in Punjab, due mainly to disputes with civil
works contractors and structural defects in the buildings. The plant in
Sind has been completed. Field activities have made good progress.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976,
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted but construction delays have
continued and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.
Detailed action plans to improve operational and financial performance have
recently been agreed.
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Develop-
ment Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July
31, 1984
Overall progress is about three years behind schedule due to ini-
tial delays in employing consultants, procurement problems and difficulties
in installing the subsurface collector drains. Canal remodeling, surveys
and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily. Additional equipment
is being procured to improve the rate of construction.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date:
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reformulated project has been approved by the Executive Direc-
tors and GOP and GOPun have signed the legal documents. The contract for
the rehabilitation of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) has been let and
preparatory work is under way. An outstanding issue is the appointment of
three consultants to strengthen LMP management.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9,
1977; Credit No. 684          Closing Date:  Decemer 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications
and signaling scheme is making good progress and the complete network is
expected to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been com-
pleted and the total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February
18, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The project is generally making good progress. Curriculum improve-
ments have been satisfactorily carried out. Nearly all civil works con-
tracts have been completed except at Quetta and Rahim Yar Khan where con-
struction of the Agricultural Training Institutes has been delayed for
about one year due to site problems. At Sind Agricultural University
construction is also behind by one year due to initial delays in appoint-
ment of project implementation staff.



34 -
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff shortages and lack of a decision on upgrading field assis-
tants have caused implementation problems. Nevertheless, the vegetable
seed, maize production, service laboratory, training and apple production
components are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI: US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of budgetary and other initial problems. Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January
29, 1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project
activities. The Guzara socio-economic study, the chir pine forest inven-
tory and the pulping tests for chir pine have been completed. However, on
the basis of a forest resource assessment study, the immediate development
of an economically sized pulp mill had to be ruled out; the scope of the
feasibility study will therefore be broadened to include a range of
development options. Terms of reference are now being prepared and field
work on the next phase of the study will start in the Spring of 1983.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$
12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting con-
sultants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September
14, 1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is in operation. Final disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1982.



- 35 -
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Two new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems but well-drilling and
management problems persist. Project implementation is about 15 months
behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been
extented to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the original 8-well
drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP)
Mardan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979;
Effective Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project has been reduced in scope and initial budgetary and
other problems have been resolved. CIDA (the project co-financier) is
assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation activities as well as in
preparing subsurface drainage design and specifications. Although about
two years behind schedule, work is accelerating on the preparation of the
final designs and tender documents for the restructured project. Some
contracts have been awarded.
Credit No. 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing steadily. Nearly all of the project
inputs including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training
have been provided. The evaluation program has been redesigned and a
comprehensive proposal for the improvement of primary education is expected
to be completed by June 1983.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979;
Effective Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started, although well behind schedule. Implementation of the T&V system
and research-extension linkages remain weak. Recruitment of consultants
has been delayed.



- 36 -
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been
satisfactory. The agricultural engineering training component in NWFP is
50% completed; implementation in Punjab is about to begin. Funds for ADBP
onlend- ing are about 70% disbursed and will be fully disbursed by June 30,
1983.
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January
10, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement schedules and construc-
tion targets for substations and transmission lines are generally being
met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9,
1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion,
one has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and
re-awarded, and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts.
Discussions are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of
technical assistance to two provincial governments to improve road main-
tenance.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit
of May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
About US$35 million had been authorized for 28 projects and US$23
million had been disbursed by September 30, 1982. PICIC½s recovery program
is on target.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7
Million Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April
24, 1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project has made progress in many areas, although there has
been slow progress in the establishment of In-plant Training Advisory
Services in the provinces and in the appointment of staff for the Provin-
cial Training Boards and the National Training Development Institute. The
Government has agreed to a new timetable for appointing staff and develop-
ment of a staff training and work program for these institutions.



- 37 -
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective
Date: October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31,
1985
About $750,000 had been committed by July 1982. Selection of
consultants has been completed for the service centers and for the expert
promotion component activities; building construction and procurement of
machinery and equipment are in progress.
Credit No. 1157         Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Mil-
lion equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date:
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the storage facilities is progressing satisfac-
torily although there have been delays in hiring of consultants and staff,
and in making training arrangements.
Credit No. 1158         Agricultural Research:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$24 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1986
Most of the staff required to operate the project have been
recruited and the procedures to appoint a consultancy firm to provide
technical assistance are well advanced. Preliminary selections have been
made for the first 40 overseas training fellowships. Architects have been
appointed, designs for civil works completed and construction commenced at
the National Agricultural Research Center.
Credit No. 1163         On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan  (IDBP
II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million equiv-
alent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:  June
14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on June 14, 1982.
Loan No. 2122           Fourth Telecommunications:  US$40 Million Loan of
April 13, 1982; Effective Date: June 9, 1982; Clos-
ing Date: June 30, 1987
This Loan was declared effective on June 9, 1982.



- 38 -
Loan No. 2166          Structural Adjustment:  US$60 Million Loan of  June
23, 1982; Effective Date: September 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
This Loan was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Loan No. 2172          Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation:  US$38.5 Million
Loan of June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 21,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on October 21, 1982.
Credit No. 1239        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation:  SDR 33.5 Million
Credit (US$40 Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982;
Effective Date: May 15, 1983; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1243        Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural
Development Project: SDR 12.5 Million Credit (US$14
Million equivalent) of June 3, 1982; Effective Date:
January 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
This Credit was declared effective on January 5, 1983.
Credit No. 1255        Structural Adjustment:  SDR 71.9 Million Credit
(US$80 Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effec-
tive Date: September 9, 1982; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1983
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1256        Technical Assistance:  SDR 6.3 Million Credit (US$7
Million equivalent) of June 23, 1982; Effective Date:
September 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 9, 1982.
Credit No. 1278        Railways XI:  SDR 44.3 Million Credit (US$50 Million
equivalent) of July 13, 1982; Effective Date: Sep-
tember 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on September 13, 1982.
Loan No. 2218          Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project:
(Us$12 Million Loan of January 17, 1983; Effective
Date: April 17, 183; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Loan is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Two years.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:
Lahore Development Authority.
(c)  Date of first mission to consider
the project:
November 1979.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal missions:
February 1981 and November 1982.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
February 23, 1983.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1983.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) The Government of Punjab, LDA and LMC to take all
action to acquire needed land and, where
applicable, make satisfactory arrangements to
relocate residents (paragraphs 54, 58 and 61);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
(b)  LDA to return exempted plots to the original
owners at prices sufficient to recover
development and other costs; plots for low-income
beneficiaries to be sold by LDA in accordance
with selection criteria and on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association; all
other plots to be sold at fair market value
(paragraph 59);
(c)  LDA, in consultation with the Association, to
prepare standard sale agreements for all plots
in the Gujjarpura scheme (paragraph 59);
(d)  HBFC to establish a revolving fund to make
investments for financing of future urban
projects in Pakistan (paragraph 67);
(e)  Government of Punjab and LDA to furnish to the
Association a plan to recover development costs
in the Walled City and, on completion of this
component, review whether the fees, tariffs and
taxes should be adjusted (paragraph 69);
(f)  LDA to complete its OMF Study and carry out
appropriate recommendations as agreed with
the Association (paragraph 71); and
The following would be additional conditions of
effectiveness (paragraph 81):
(i) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for
the project;
(ii) the execution of an Investment Agreement
between the Government and HBFC, satisfactory
to the Association; and
(iii) the execution of an Agreement between HEBFC and
LDA, satisfactory to the Association, covering
investments for site development in Gujjarpura.



IBRD 15541R
//   FIRST LAHORE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\_   ,¢   >   }   ;p,/                           Lahor.  Metropolitan   Area
Cl                                                           /                                                               PIonmog Zooe (Norrh:rl            BUI UP A 003
N      Tr.ff,c MP,,bhsent Zone       m            Pu,k,
7 Wa lled Cto, Ph-,a                I     Gprd-s    d Golf Co-or-e
\ \ // / ~~~~~~~~~~.-                                           *               -                    GtPra dEaponosroAreo                 )       Choto RoL Conol
Sos~o  Praeas)    Ahrg--se  of Chat. R.,
Pri-t. B. Stp,           ~~Pr-r,r T,- spo   - C-  r-
S LMAC M-,rr--oo rAbkakop
\<   3 Of, LDA D Y L p-m nt        Mar Roads
.    K-toh, Abod,s (Offiral)
2\$/                           . WAnc t^LdEprd                                 li'  Moum
X  HA                                                               A                                     P- W           t   I    X 'AGA  0
C ~~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. V/,,tbl M .Wvok  ''
4 :X- ' \9-d  Rd3                                                                                                S.rra
'R  ..sr
.... t d b ilE e ~...... XKL . - _ ''    OMa' V0  ND
t_oPeb  ~              ,                  '     /                ,,#  + -   -   _o\ WALLED'                                                                           '     t 
so :s mc ~~~~IM Rlo s>,/o6     ;DsA.   
i*F.,,,£@p#b<.,                                  N0/                  1             i                                                        #                      i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
_.1t. L6sf                                                                                                     .     FLE                                              ..,AYAs,#
S"AtAM~~~~. IIOEE5o      \/SXV
NEW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IC  SHAD. \8?  



