OFFICIAL
OCUMNEN TS       IT NUMBER 1348 PAK
Project Agreement
(Lahore Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB
and
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1348 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 1983,
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and the PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB acting by its
Governor (hereinafter called the Provincial Government) and the
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called LDA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on zondition that the Provincial Government and LDA agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available not less than
Rs 22,000,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement to the Provincial
Government such amount to be provided to LDA for purposes of
Parts A.1, 2, 4 and 5 of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Provincial Government and LDA, in consideration
of the Association's entering into the Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, except
"the Project" shall mean Parts A.1, 2, 4 and 5, B.1 and 3, and D
of the Project.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LDA shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and the Provincial Govern-
ment shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist LDA in carrying out the
Project, LDA shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such employment to be made in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the World Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) LDA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower through the Provincial Government against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by LDA to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to LDA by the Borrower through the Provincial
Government shall be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 2.05. (a) LDA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof


﻿- 3 -
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) LDA shall: (i) maintain separate records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by LDA of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) LDA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine the plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment, relating to the Project and any relevant
records and documents.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between LDA and the
Association, LDA shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by LDA and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. LDA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the agreement under which the investments referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the HBFC Project Agreement shall have
been made, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
LDA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the


﻿-4-
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such
agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) LDA shall, not later than six weeks after
the end of each quarter, furnish to the Association quarterly
reports on the progress of the Project; such reports shall be of
such scope and in such detail as the Association may reasonably
request.
(b) The Provincial Government and LDA shall at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(c) The Provincial Government or LDA shall promptly inform
the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Provincial
Government and LDA of their obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. LDA shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land as shall be
needed for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. The Provincial Government and LDA shall,
whenever this is necessary, make satisfactory arrangements to
relocate any legally authorized occupants of areas included in
Parts A and B of the Project who are required to move as a result
of carrying out said Parts of the Project.
Section 2.10. With respect to Part B.1 of the Project, LDA
shall:
(a)  exempt plots to previous owners in accordance with the
Punjab Acquisition of Land (Housing) Act of 1973, and subsequent
rules/instructions framed by the Provincial Government, on
payment of development charges sufficient to recover, in the
aggregate,   the  costs   of,   preparation  of   sites,   on-site
infrastructure including connections to individual plots, design
and supervision fees for the sites, management costs, and
interest during construction;


﻿(b) sell plots to Low Income Beneficiaries in accordance
with selection criteria and on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including those set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and
(c) sell commercial, industrial, residential and community
service plots other than those referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) hereof at fair market value, but in any event, at prices
sufficient to recover, in the aggregate, the costs specified in
paragraph (a) hereof.
Section 2.11. (a) Not later than December 31, 1983, the
Provincial Government, assisted by LDA, shall furnish to the
Association a plan satisfactory to the Association to recover the
costs for on-site provision of water supply, sewerage, street
lighting and solid waste collection (including design and super-
vision) under Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project, through fees,
tariffs and taxes; the Provincial Government shall cause such
plan to be executed promptly thereafter.
(b) Upon completion of Part A of the Project, the Provin-
cial Government and LDA shall review whether the fees, tariffL
and taxes, as the .case may be, are adequate to recover the costs
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, and, if necessary, make
appropriate adjustments thereto,
Section 2.12. LDA shall, in consultation with the Associa-
tion, prepare standard agreements to be entered into for the sale
of plots under Part B.1 of the Project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LDA
Section 3.01. LDA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. LDA shall complete a study on its organiza-
tion, management and financial system by December 31, 1983, and
carry out during the implementation of the Project, such recom-
mendations arising out of said study as LDA shall deem appro-
priate in consultation with the Association.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LDA shall:
(a) maintain records adequate to reflect in acc( :dance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition, including separate records
for the Project; and
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure, and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. LDA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested including a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of such certificate of expenditure showing whether the
proceed- of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis or certificates of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; (iii) furnish to the
Association quarterly financial statements not later than six
weeks after the end of each quarter; and (iv) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of LDA and     the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provincial Government and LDA thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provincial Government and LDA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 8 -
For the Provincial Government:
Government of the Punjab
Civil Secretariat
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Lahore
For LDA:
Lahore Development Authority
Shahra Qaid-i-Azam
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
LDA
Lahore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Provincial Government or LDA may be
taken or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board
of the Provincial Government or the Director General of LDA
respectively, or such other person or persons as they shall
designate in writing, and the Provincial Government and LDA shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
of Columbia., United Stat:es of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTEF ATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB
ByIS     g;e"        I
Authorized Representative
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, LDA shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and civil works in question. LDA shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or civil works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part B.1 of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   To the extent possible, contracts for civil works and goods
shall be grouped into single bid packages of $2,000,000 equiva-
lent or more.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the


﻿- 11 -
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids   offering  goods manufactured   in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of LDA and the Association    that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 12 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost
$700,000 or less may be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association provided,
however, that such contracts shall not in the aggregate exceed
$6,300,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts  for  small items   of  equipment and    small
vehicles estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less may be
procured through local shopping on the basis of at least 3
responsive quotations, provided, however, that such contracts
shall not in the aggregate exceed $500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. LDA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by LDA to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified of LDA's deci-
sion, and LDA shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:


﻿- 13 -
(a) Before bids are invited, LDA shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids hive been received and evaluated, LDA shall,
before a final decisio,n on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform LDA and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, LDA shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform LDA and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 14 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, LDA shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform LDA and state the reasons
for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works with respect to Parts A.1, 2 and 4 of the
Project may be carried out through force account.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Beneficiary Selection and Plot Pricing
for Low Income Beneficiaries
A.   Beneficiary Selection
1.   Procedure
(i) adequate information through mass media including local
newspapers shall be provided to residents of the Lahore
metropolitan area;
(ii) applicants ,hall be selected for the plots on the basis
of their incomes as set forth in Section 2 hereof; and
(iii) if the number of eligible applications exceeds the
number of plots available, the selection shall be made
by lottery.
2.   Criteria
(i) applicants shall be at least 18 years of age;
(ii) applicants shall have a regular source of income;
(iii) applicants or any members of their households shall not
own property or have any interest in property in the
Province of the Punjab; and
(iv) following will not be eligible for allotment of a plot:
(a) those members of the family, including wife,
husband or dependent children, who had been
allotted plot or house in any urban housing scheme
in Punjab earlier but sold out;
(b) those who had been convicted of corruption charges
or enquiry of corruption is pending;
(c) dismissed government servants on any charges; or
(d) those    convicted   for  anti-state,   anti-social
activities and heinous crimes.


﻿- 16 -
(v) applicants shall be eligible for different plot types
as follows:
Plot Type                 Plot Size (m2)
Residential                       72
Residential                       90
Residential                      108
Residential                      150
Monthly income of the family
(i) For General Public
Rs 1,000/- or less per month.
(ii) For Government Servants
(a) For grade 1-7 for plots of 72m2 and 90m2.
(b) Grade 8-16 for plots of 108m2 and 150m2.
B.   The prices of the plot will be fixed at the time of sale of
plots in consultation with the Association. However, the
details of the prices of plots based on December 1980 prices
are as follows:
Plot Pricing (Prices in Rupees as of December 1980)
Plot Type                        Plot Price      Connection fee
(a) Ordinary plots 72m2            2,000               100
(b) Gali plots 90m2                4,000               100
(c) Spine 'A' plots 90m2           4,500               100
(d) Spine 'B' plots 108m2          5,500               100
(e) Prime location plots 150m2     9,267.51            100


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Standard
Sale Agreements
1.    The Standard Sale Agreement shall include the following
terms:
(a) That the intended vendee shall not during the period of
agreement without first obtaining the consent of the
LDA in writing sub-divide the said land or part with
the possession transfer or lease the land or any part
thereof.
(b) Within a period of not more than 15 days from the date
of execution of the agreement, the intended vendee or
his successor in interest may for the purpose of
building and executing works in the manner and to the
extent hereinafter stipulated enter upon the said piece
of land.
(c) Within a period of 2 years from the date of execution
of the agreement the intended vendee or his successor
in interest shall at his own expense erect upon the
land, cover in and complete in a substantial and work-
manlike manner a dwelling house/shop and/or business
premises according to the provisions of the scheme and
the plans sanctioned by the Authority. In exceptional
circumstances, the LDA's Director General is competent
to extend time to complete the construction, if so
requested by the intended vendee, subject to the condi-
tion that the intended vendee shall pay the surcharge
therefor according to the prevailing policy of the
LDA. For this purpose every intended vendee intending
to erect or re-erect any building shall submit in
duplicate:
(1) A site plan of the plot on which it is intended to
erect or re-erect the building;
(2) A plan of the building which is proposed to be
erected or re-erected; and
(3) The specifications.
2.   Other terms shall be in accordance with LDA's standard sale
agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   4        day of          ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


