Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AJS 32 P-cws
Report No. 7702-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 9, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China Department
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CV--j.RNCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 1990)
Currency utame = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency urit = Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
Y 1.00 = $0.19
$1.00 = Y 5.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOCOM      -    Bank of Communications
CIB        -    China Investment Bank
CRS        -    Contract Responsibility System
ERR        -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR        -    Financial Rate of Return
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -    Gross National Product
GOC        -    Government of China
GVIO       -    Gross Value of Industrial Output
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
ICBC       -    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
IFS        -    International Finance Corporation
MOF        -    Ministry of Finance
MOFERT     -    Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
OEM        -    Original Equipment Manufacturer
PBC        -    People's Bank of China
PCBC       -    People's Construction Bank of China
PCR        -    Project Completion Report
PFIs       -    Participating Financial Institutions
PMU        -    Project Monitoring Unit
PPY        -    Per Person-Year
PRC        -    People's Republic of China
SFERTC     -    Shanghai Foreign Economic Relations and Trade Commission
SEAC       -    Shanghai Electrical Apparatus Corporation
SECC       -    Shanghai Electronic Components Corporation
SEPB       -    Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau
SFIC       -    Shanghai Foreign Investment Commission
SIDP       -    Shanghai Industrial Development Project
SIEB       -    Shanghai Instrumentation and Electronic Industry Bureau
SITCO      -    Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation
SMG        -    Shanghai Municipal Government
SMEIA      -    Shanghai Mechanical and Electrical Industries Administration
SOE        -    Statement of Expenditures
SPERI      -    Shanghai Planning Economic Research Institute
SPPMC      -    Shanghai Printing and Packaging Machinery Corporation
SPSIC      -    Shanghai Precision and Scientific Instrument Corporation
TORs       -    Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  People's Republic of China.
Beneficiaries:              Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) and the Partici-
pating Financial Institutions (PFIs).l/
Amount:                     $150.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                      Twenty years, including five years' grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:            The proceeds of the loan would be made available by
the Borrower to the SMG on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. S.4G would onlend the
entire proceeds to the five PFIs for 20 years,
including five years' grace, and at a variable
interest rate equal to the Bank rate. The PFIs
would in turn extend subloans to eligible enter-
prises for a maximum period of 12 years including a
maximum grace period of three years at a variable
interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus at least
1.25 percent; subborrowers would carry the foreign
exchange risks associated with the Bank's loan.
Project Description:       The project would support the development of four
industrial subsectors in Shanghai (printing machin-
ery, electrical apparatus, electronic components and
precision and scientific instruments). It would aim
to promote increased efficiency and competitiveness
through: (a) technical assistance for organiza-
tional restructuring in each of t1o subsectors and
upgrading internal enterprise management systems;
(b) financing through a credit component of techno-
logical restructuring subprojects that are environ-
mentally sound and based on rational product, mar-
keting and organizational restructuring strategies,
and sound financial and economic criteria; and
(c) implementation of policy reforms at the subsec-
tor level. The project will also include an insti-
tutional development component consisting of policy
studies on enterprise reform issues and the effects
of recent and planned policy changes in the four
1/   The PFIs are:  China Investment Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of
China, People's Construction Bank of China, Bank of Communications
Shanghai Branch, and Shanghai Investment and Trust Company.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
subsectors. In addition, there are preproiect
training courses for the PFIs in subproject
appraisal.
Benefits and Risks:        Subsector-wlde restructuring and implementation of
subsector policy reforms would result in improvement
of subsector efficiency, growth and exports. Sub-
project eligibility criteria will ensure their eco-
nomic and financial viability. The main project
risks pertain to implementation of subsector policy
and enterprise reforms, and to the timely implemen-
tation of the project. However, SMG is strongly
committed to the needed reforms, and has implemented
several of the enterprise reforms since appraisal.
During appraisal, the Bank and SK4G agreed on: the
subsector policy and enterprise reforms that would
be implemented in connection with the project and a
framework for periodic reviews and studies in con-
sultation with the Bank. In addition, legal
restructuring of the subsector corporations would
take place before subloans to them are approved.
Arrargements for preproject training, implementation
at the level of the subsector corporations, techni-
cal assistance and overall project coordination
should facilitate project implementation.
Estimated Cost: /a                        Local            Foreign            Total
------------ ($ million) -----_
Technological restructuring               131.7             155.2             266.9
Training                                     2.6             11.7              14.3
Computers                                    0.8              3.7               4.5
Management assistance                        4.1              9.7              13.8
Institutional development                    0.1              -                 0.1
Total                                139.3             30.3             319.6
Financing Plan: la
IBRD                                         -              150.0             1'r.0
PFIs, other banks and enterprises         139.2               -               l.:9.2
Shanghai Municipal Governme.t /b             0.1             30.3              30.4
Total                                139.3            180.t             319.6
/a Tentative figures based on the initial pipeline of subprojects. Detailed
final estimates will be prepared by thc PFIs for each subproject at the
time they are appraised. Since these are preliminary estimates, no
attempt has been made to separate contingencies.
/b Includes $105,000 equivalent from the Japanese Grant Facility to finance
the estimated foreign costs for the studies and some of the training.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:   Bank FY:        1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
-----iiii---- ($ million) --__-_______
Annual                                5.0   17.5   40.0   42.0   29.5   16.0
Cumulative                            5.0   22.5   62.5  104.5  134.0  150.0
Economic Rate of Return: At least 12 percent for subprojects.



- iv -
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION .1...................... .                           1
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN CHINA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
A. Structure and Performance.                                     3
B.  Industrial Development Issues and Strategy  . . . . . . .     3
C. Bank Support for Industry.                                     7
III.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN SHANGHAI . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
A. Background .11
B.  Shanghai Municipality and Its Industrial Structure  . . .    11
C. Industrial Performance .13
D. Resources and Constraints .13
E.  Development Strategy and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
F. The Four Subsectors .19
Enterprise and Subsector Policy Reforms  . . . . . .    19
Subsector Restructuring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
G. Bank Role and Strategy .24
IV.  THE PROJECT........................ .    25
A.  Project Objectives  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
B.  Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . .    25
Financial Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Technical Assistance Component .  . . . . . . . . .    26
Institutional Development Component  . . . . . . . .    27
C. Eligibility Criteria .27
D.  Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
E.  Project Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Role of the Shanghai Municipal Government  . . . . .    29
Role of the Subsector Corporations . . . . . . . . .    30
Role of the Participating Financial Institutions . .    31
F. Environmental Impact .33
This report is based on the appraisal by a Bank mission, composed of Darius
Mans (Mission Leader), Harbaksh Sethi, Sally Zeijlon, Shanker Krishnan, Anupam
Khanna, Natalie Lichtenstein, Mohan Pherwani and Edgar Su (Consultant), that
visited China in February/March 1989 and the postappraisal by a Bank mission
composed of Sally Zeijlon (Mission Leader), Ramaswami Venkateswaran, Swoon
Weng Leong (Consultant) and Zhou Yuling that visited Shanghai in March 1990.
Peer reviewers include Julio Gamba (AS5IE) and Emanuel Sharon (Consultaat).



Page No.
V. THE LOAN ......................................................   35
A.  Lending Arrangements and Terms       ..35
B. Procurement ...............................................   36
C. Disbursement    ..37
D. Reporting and Auditing    ..37
E. Benefits and Risks    ..38
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .39
ANNEXES
1.  The Development Strategy and Policies for Shanghai's
Industrial Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
2.  Statement of Shanghai Municipal Government on the Development
Program and Strategy for SIDP Subsectors  . . . . . . . .    50
3.  Shanghai Electronic Components Subsector  . . . . . . . . . .    55
4.  Shanghai Precision and Scientific Instruments Subsector . . .    67
5.  Shanghai Electrical Apparatus Subsector . . . . . . . . . . .    77
6.  Shanghai Printing and Packaging Machinery Subsector . . . . .    88
7. Consulting Services Terms of Reference  . . . . . . . . . . .    98
8.  Scope of Subproject Feasibility Studies . . . . . . . . . . .   104
9. Implementation Schedule of Major Activities . . . . . . . . .   107
10. Key Monitoring Indicators .108
11.  Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation . . . . . . . . . .   109
12.  The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China . . . . . . . . .   116
13.  The People's Construction Bank of China . . . . . . . . . . .   122
14.  Bank of Communications - Shanghai . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   128
15. China Investment Bank .136
16. Estimated Disbursements .142
17.  Progress Reports for the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   143
18.  Documents Available in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . .   148
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart of Sharing Relationship of Subsector
Corporation with Various Levels of Government . . . . . .   149
2. Organization Chart of Shanghai Mechanical and Electrical
Industries Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   150



CHINA
SHANC,HAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The ongoing economic reforms in China have decentralized much of the
investment responsibility from the Center to the provinces. In industry, this
requires the provinces to play a more active role in the preparation and exe-
cution of development programs and strategies for individual subsectors. The
Government of China (GOC) has requested the Bank to assist some selected prov-
inces in carrying out this task. The Tianjin Light Industry Project (Loan
3022-CHA, February 1989) was the first operation to assist the development of
specific subsectors at the provincial level. The proposed Shanghai Industrial
Development Project is the second such project.
1.2       Shanghai is the largest and economically preeminent city in China
and has the status of a province. It has a strong industrial base which is
facing increasing competition from other provinces and has been growing much
slower than the rest of China's industry. The reasons for this include a
squeeze on the availability of raw materials, comparatively outmoded manufac-
turing technology in many enterprises in Shanghai, limited investible
resources after meeting its tax obligations to the Central Government, and,
until two years ago, slower implementation of the government's enterprise
reform program in Shanghai than in other provinces. In a significant depar-
ture from past policies, Shanghai has now been designated as a major focus for
economic deveiopment and opening to the outside world. Reform initiatives are
being implemented and, if successful and consistent with past practice, ire
expected to be replicated elsewhere in China. While some pause in the imple-
mentation of these initiatives was evident in 1989, the commitment of the
national and municipal governments to the reform effLrts in the city has been
reconfirmed and progress is again evident. Important elements of Shanghai's
industrial strategy are to move into more technology-intensive, less pollut-
ing, and less energy- and raw-material-intensive subsectors, which could be
competitive within China and in export markets, and to implement enterprise
and related economic reforms more extensively (Annex 1). The subsectors to be
assisted in the proposed project are passive electronic components, precision
and scientific instruments, electrical apparatus and printing machinery.
Strengthening these types of industries is consistent with Shanghai's indus-
trial strategy.
1.3       During project preparation, in-depth studies of the four subsectors
in Shanghai were carried out by foreign consulting companies--Boston Consult-
ing Group and Booz, Allen and Hamilton--with the assistance of local consult-
ing firms. These studies and discussions between the Shanghai Municipal Gov-
ernment (SMG) and the Bank have assisted the government in the preparation of
development programs and strategies for the four subsectors (Annex 2) which
are consistent with the conclusions and recommendations of the consultants'
studies. They outline: (a) the subsector policy reforms needed in the sub-
sectors; (b) viable product and market strategies for each subsector;
(c) plans for restructuring the organization and production facilities of the
subsectors; (d) investment programs; and, (e) implementation plans.



1.4       The main objective of the proposed project is to assist SMG in the
implementation of the above-mentioned development program and strategy. The
proposed Bank loan of $150 million would support the foreign exchange needs of
the project. It would be onlent through five participating financial in,titu-
tions (PFIs) in Shanghai for technological restructuring and technical assis-
tance, including consultant services for organizational restructuring, manage-
ment upgrading, training and computers in the four subsectors. The subproj-
ects to be financed by the PFIs will be consistent with SMG's strategies for
the four subsectors and will also meet the other eligibility criteria agreed
upor. with the Bank.



- 3 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN CHINA
A. Structure and Performance
2.1       Industry is China's largest productive sector, accounting for
46 percent of its gross domestic product (GDP) in 1988 and employing nearly
18 percent of the country's total labor force. About 99,000 state-owned
enterprises generate 57 percent of total industrial output; the remainder is
produced by more than 1.5 million nonstate enterprises--primarily urban and
rural collectives, township and village enterprises. The state enterprises
concentrate on important raw materials, capital goods, and strategic commodi-
ties such as fertilizers, although there are also state enterprises producing
a wide range of light industrial and consumer goods. Nonstate enterprises
mainly produce downstream consumer products. The gross value of industrial
output (GVIO), which amounted to Y 1,811 billion ($486.7 billion) in 1988, is
shared almost equally by light and heavy industry. GVIO increased rapidly
between 1980 and 1988, at about 13.7 percent a year in real terms. During
this period, light industry registered a much faster annual growth rate
(14.9 percent) than did heavy industry (10.9 percent). Macroeconomic stabili-
zation policies initiated in 1988 led to a reduction of the annual growth of
total industrial output to 6.7 percent in 14.39 and an estimated 6 percent for
1990.
2.2       Between the mid-1950s and mid-1970s, Chinese industry was oriented
mainly toward the rapidly growing domestic market.  Since then manufactured
exports have grown rapidly, especially during the 1980s. They rose from
around $8 billion in 1980 to about $33 billion in 1988, and expanded further
in 1989, in spite of the overall slowdown of the economy. The share of
exports in industrial output was 6.8 percent in 1988.
B. Industrial Development Issues and Strategy
2.3       Between 1949 and 1978, China's iriustrial development was guided by
an inward-oriented, import substitution strategy, with emphasis on capital
accumulation. This led to rapid growth of industrial output and employment,
building up industrial skills, and development of a wide range of basic,
intermediate and consumer goods industries. Nevertheless, it also resulted in
deficiencies that have constrained industrial development in several respects.
The most obvious deficiencies pertain to: outdated technologies (nearly
80 percent of the current stock of capital equipment is obsolete and needs
replacement or technical renovation); institutional rigidities deriving in
part from quota and price controls; a distorted structure of prices; inade-
quate infrastructure; and an underdeveloped financial sector. These problems
are reflected in the low productivity of labor and low efficiency of resource
use in Chinese plants.
2.4       Emphasis on self-sufficiency at the regional level has led to a
fragmented national market, reduced domestic competition, and the suboptimal
use of scarce skills and resources. As a result, potential gains from econo-
mies of scale are often missed. Subeconomic-sized enterprises proliferate,
often in the same markets as large enterprises, and are usually financially
profitable due to government price controls and other support. Institutional
inflexibility, compounded by inadequate market integration, has provided



- 4 -
little incentive for industrial enterprises to improve managerial efficiency
and product quality. This incentive is further reduced by the weak budgetary
constraint for large state-owned enterprises, which can normally expect their
losses to be covered by the government. The low prices of energy and basic
intermediates for industrial production also contribute to the inefficient use
of inputs. Investments in infrastructure, particularly for transportation and
telecommunications, have lagged behind those in industry. This disparity has
in turn been a major constraint on industrial development.
2.5       Between 1979 and 1988, the Government of China (GOC) changed its
industrial development strategy and gradually introduced reforms, after
periods of local and regional experimentation, to strengthen market forces and
improve the incentives to industrial efficiency. The new strategy emphasized
modernizing existing equipment, developing manufactured exports and more effi-
cient light industry, and conserving material and energy resources in indus-
try. The introduction of these reforms has been a cautious process, though,
involving experimentation and repeated fine-tuning. The reforms implemented
since 1979 have focused mainly on five areas: (i) enterprises--strengthening
management accountability; (ii) prices--expanding the role of market forces
in price determination; (iii) trade--promotion of exports to earn foreign
exchange, which in turn finances imports of modern technology and equipment;
(iv) financial sector--developing financial institutions and markets; and
(v) investment--decentralizing responsibility and shifting its pattern to
address key bottlenecks.
2.6       Enterprises.  Enterprises have been provided with various Incentives
to enable them to operate with greater management autonomy in a more competi-
tive business environment. Reforms adopted in 1984 aimed at decentralizing
economic decision-making toward the provinces and enterprises based on greater
use of market signals. The state enterprise reforms introduced, among other
things, a system of contract management responsibility, introduction of
greater uniformity in tax rates for enterprise income, wage incentives for
workers, and higher profit retention. While these actions have demonstrably
increased enterprise autonomy and resulted in improvements in enterprise per-
formance, continued initiatives are needed to address the distortions that
have become evident during the incremental reform process. GOC continues to
actively study and experiment with modification of the management contracting
system, alternative forms of enterprise ownership, and the introduction of
company law and bankruptcy legislation. Of particular importance are current
efforts to design a shareholding system ("joint-stock ownership") suitable for
Chinese state-owned enterprises. Several versions of shareholding are being
introduced experimentally in selected locations, among which Shanghai is prom-
inent. These include clarification of ownership rights and exposure of enter-
prises to increased competition, which are vital to further efficiency gains
(para. 3.22). As part of this effort, the government has established the
National Administrative Bureau of State-Owned Property. Not only is this seen
as a first step in the separation of the ownership role from the policy and
regulatory functions of government agencies, but the new body also has a man-
date to devise policies for asset valuation and transfer.
2.7       Prices.  In 1984, reforms were adopted to enhance the role of mar-
kets in determining prices and industrial output by reducing the role of man-
datory planning and initiating the correction of major price distortions. As
a result of these price reforms, a two-tiered pricing system now exists: con-



trolled prices for production to meet planned output targets, and market-
related prices for the growing portion of output above plan targets. The
Government conside.ably raised the price of major industrial inputs including
energy. The proportion of industrial output sold at market-related prices has
increased significantly. For example, as early as 1985 a major enterprise
survey showed that 53 percent of output was already being sold directly in the
market, while only 20 percent of the output was determined by the state's
mandatorv plan and 27 percent by the guidance plan; since then, the proportion
under planning has continued to decline. The share of industrial materials
and intermediate goods under state distribution has also fallen considerably.
For example, even for steel and coal, less than 50 percent was under state
distribution in 1988, and nearly three quarters of all metal-cutting tools
were sold by state enterprises in the market. Virtually all consumer goods
are now sold in the market and the gap between state and market prices for
these categories has become quite small. The impact on enterprise behavior of
these reforms has been significant. By late 1988, the majority of enterprises
(state and nonstate) were making decisions with reference to market prices,
indicating that allocative efficiency was increasing. Marginal choices are
increasingly being made at market prices because virtually all enterprises
sell a portion of their products in the market and depend on market transac-
tions to purchase their marginal inputs.
2.8       In 1988, further price reforms were interrupted when the Government
reacted to rapid inflation by initiating a macroeconomic stabilization pro-
gram. In its initial stages, this three-year program involved strict control
of the prices of the approximately one-fifth of commodities still within the
price control system, but did not increase controls for commodities already
outside that system. The Government has stated its intention of doing away
with dual pricing in the medium term, and adjusting controlled raw material,
energy and transport prices, to reduce remaining distortions. In early 1990,
and following the government's success in reestablishing macroeconomic stabil-
ity, new price adjustments for cotton, and for rail and water freight trans-
port were announced. The two-tiered pricing system represents a significant
improvement over the strict price control of the past. Nevertheless, remain-
ing distortiors in relative prices and large gaps between controlled and mar-
ket prices have a numiber of shortcomings; reduced allocative efficiency,
discriminatiorn across producers and consumers, administrative complexity, and
creation of opportunities for corrupt practices. It is thus important that
the government continues with its stated intention to continue the process of
price reform.
2.9       Trade.  As a result of the decentralization of export respor.2ibili-
ties in the 1980s, several thousand Chinese enterprises now have the right to
trade directly with foreign firms, and many more use trading companies as
agents rather than selling exportable goods to them. There is concern that
this rapid granting of direct export rights, especially in 1988, without suf-
ficient regulation and institutional support for enterprises to adhere to
quality and delivery standards, may -ave created negative impressions in over-
seas markets. GOC is studying ways of addressing such problems, and expanding
direct trading more slowly, although its commitment to the "open-door" policy
initiated in 1979 has not changed. The availability of foreign exchange to
nonexporting enterprises has improved somewhat with the creation of the for-
eign exchange adjustment centers, mainly in the coastal zone. Central manda-
tory planning continues to be used to ensure imports of essential raw materi-



-6
als to fill the deficits left in the domestic economy, and lice:nsing (rather
than tariffs) discourages some consumer goods imports. Export competitiveness
has been maintained through periodic adjustments in the exchange rate, the
most recent of which occurred in November 1990 (para. 3.27).
2.10      Financial Sector.  Prior to 1979, China essentially had a monobank
system which allocated resources according to fiscal directives. Reform of
the system was initiated in the early 1980s with the formal establishment, in
1984, of the People's Bank of China (PBC) as the country's central bank, and
divestiture of its banking functions to independent specialized banks. Since
1986, China's financial sector reforms have accelerated. Before then, the
system was largely limited to four national banks, specialized along economic
and sectoral lines, and financial assets mainly consisted of deposits and
government bonds. As a result of the reforms, the range of financial institu-
tions and instruments has markedly increased. Numerous nonbank financial
institutions (NBFIs) have been established. Financial bonds, commercial
paper, bankers acceptances, trade bills, and bond-like enterprise shares have
been introduced. These reforms have resulted in considerable financial deep-
ening, despite some setbacks in the recent period of high inflation: M2 as a
proportion of C,DP increased from 37 percent in 1979 to 75 percent in 1987,
before declining to 60 percent in the first half of 1989. The reforms have
also succeeded in reducing the rcle played by the budget in investment finan-
cing, while substantially increasing the role of bank finance.
2.11      Notwithstanding these advances, weaknesses remain.  The system is
dominated by the four specialized banks. Financial institutions still need
substantiEl institutional upgrading to function as effective intermediaries.
The recent trend of increasing portfolio arrears in the banking system needs
to be arrested. Regulation and supervision of the financial system require
considerable strengtiuening, as do the accounting and legal frameworks, and
while recent reliance on administrative mechanisms has enabled the government
to regain control of rapidly accelerating inflation, in the longer term, PBC
should make greater use of indirect monetary credit policy tools. In this
connection, PBC, assisted by the Bank (para. 2.15 and 2.18), is currently
formulating plans designed to strengthen its clearing, supervisory and regula-
tory functions.
2.12      Interest rates have been adjusted several times during the past
decade. As of August 1990, interest rates on deposits generally range from
8.64 percent for one-year deposits to 13.68 percent for eight-year deposits,
and from 2.16 percent for sight deposits to 6.48 percent for deposits of less
than one year. The interest rate on individuals' time deposits of three
years' or more duration are indexed to the rate of inflation. Lending rates
are generally 9.36 percent for working capital loans, and between 9.36 percent
and 11.16 percent for fixed asset loans, depending on their maturities. How-
ever, further rationalization of the structure is necessary. There is an
excessive number of different rates, and they are widely dispersed. For some
categories of loans and deposits, there is an inadequate margin with a poten-
tially negative impact on bank profitability. The general level of real rates
In the recent past was negative, but recent and projected declines in the
inflation rate, coupled with the above-mentioned adjustments, have served to
mitigate this problem. Although the need for a more flexible interest rate
mechanism remains, the general level of real rates is now positive and is
projected to remain so.



- 7 -
2.13      Investment.  The above reforms have also been accompanied by a pro-
gressive reduction in the incidence of central planning and the raising of
approval limits for provincial authorities, to three times the level they were
at in 1984. Enterprises are now empowered to embark on small-scale, technical
updating projects without following complicated approval processes if the
project can be financed with the enterprise's own funds. Close to 30 percent
of fixed investment is now financed from retained funds. The ongoing stabili-
zation program has resulted in some retrenchment in this process. For exam-
ple, in July 1990, the government published a list of 23 product groups for
which central approval will be required for investment projects. This measure
was taken partly in recognition that large scales of production, necessary for
such products, were avoided as provinces tend to favor projects whose size is
within provincial approval limits. By reducing the implied waste, the cpntral
government also hopes to free up scarce resources for key debottlenecking
investments in energy, infrastructure and raw materials. The recognition )f
this problem is a positive move, but the longer-term solution lies in a fur-
ther deepening of ongoing enterprise, price and financial system reforms.
C. Bank Support for Industry
2.14      The Bank Group's industrial lending operations in China, which began
in 1982, comprise the following: (a) five loan/credit operations totaling
$945.6 million to the China Investment Bank (CIB) (Loan 2226-CHA/Credit 1313-
CHA, December 1982; Loan 2434-CHA/Credit 1491-CrdA, June 1984; Loan 2659-CHA/
Credit 1663-CHA, March 1986; Loan 2783-CHA/Credit 1763-CHA, March 1987; and
Loan 3075-0-CHA, May 1989); (b) four loans totaling $394 million (Loans 2541-
CHA, May 1985; 2838-CHA, June 1986; 2958-CHA, June 1988; and 3066-CHA, May
1989) for a Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project, a Fertilizer
Rationalization Project, a Phosphate Development Project, and the Hubei Phos-
phate Project; (c) a $100 million loan (Loan 2784-CHA, April 1987) for the
Shanghai Machine Tool Project; (d) a $20 million industrial development compo-
nent of the Gansu Province Project (Loan 2812-CHA and Credit 1793-CHA, April
1987); (e) a loan of $127 million (Loan 2943-CHA, May 1988) for the China
Pharmaceutical Project; (f) a loan of $154 million (Loan 3022-^HA, February
1989) for the .ianjin Light Industry Project; and (g) a credit/loan of $114.3
for the Rural Industrial Technology (Spark) Project (Loan 3274-CHA/Credit
2186-CHA, December 1990). In addition, the Planning Support and Special Stu-
dies Project (Credit 1835-CHA, June 1987) includes components for long-term
planning and strategic studies in some industrial subsectors. International
Finance Corporation (IFC) support, since the first operation in 1985, totals
$25 million equivalent in the following projects: Guangzhou and Peugeot
(Investment No. 813, FY85), China Investment Company (Investment No. 974,
FY87), Shenzhen China Bicycles Co., Ltd. (Investment No. 1020, FY87), and
Shenzhen Crown Electronics (Investment No. 37740, FY88).
2.15      Apart from some delays in the first China Investment Bank (CIB)
operation, disbursement of the CIB loans and credits generally has proceeded
satisfactorily. A PCR for the first CIB project has been prepared. The PCR
concludes that the project's objectives have been fully achieved, in particu-
lar, in laying a foundation for CIB, a new financial institution, to develop
as an autonomous and efficient intermediary in industrial finance. With con-
tinued Bank support, CIB's capacity in project design, selection and appraisal
has improved significantly since its establishment. Lessons learned from the
implementation of the first project were reflected in the design of subsequent



CIB projects supported by the Bank. Recently, the quality of CIB's portfolio
has deteriorated, mainly due to the general economic downturn Chine has been
experiencing. Strengthening of CIB's canabilities to monitor and supervise
subprojects and cope with problem loans is a priority in providing further
Bank assistance to CIB. Physical implementation of the first two fertilizer
projects is proceeding satisfactorily. After some delays in project implemen-
tation due to the Government's recent austerity program and the resulting
shortage of local counterpart funds, the two phosphate projects are now pro-
ceeding well. Procurement is well under way for the Pharmaceuticals Project,
Phosphate Development Project, Shanghai Machine Tool Project, which involves
rehabilitation and modernization of the machine tool subsector in Shanghai,
and the industrial component of the Gansu Project, which involves diversifica-
tion and modernization of rural industry.
2.16      The Bank Group's overall objectives in the industrial and financial
sectors in China are to assist the Government to: (a) improve the policy
framework for the sectors as a whole; (b) build sound institutions and prac-
tices for financial intermediation, subsector planning, and project approval
and implementation; (c) promote and implement technology upgrading, plant
restructuring and rehabilitation, and energy and material conservation in
selected subsectors at the provincial and national levels; and (d) promote
enterprise reform in the state sector. In the industrial sector, the Bank
Group would seek to underpin further enterprise, trade, and price reforms
designed to give market forces a greater role in stimulating efficiency
improvements. In the financial sector, emphasis would be placed in the near
term on strengthening and enhancing the viability of the banking system, which
must play an increasingly important role as other economic reforms proceed,
through reforms designed tc. (i) safeguard banks' financial viability,
through adequate interest rate spreads and accurate reflection of their port-
folio quality; (ii) improve bank management; (iii) strengthen regulation and
supervision of the financial system; and (iv) improve the bank accounting
framework. Other reforms to be supported include strengthening the central
bank's ability to implement effectively monetary and credit policy with
greater use of indirect tools, developing more robust money and capital mar-
kets, improving the overall level and structure of interest rates, and enhanc-
ing competition in the banking system.
2.17      The Bank's pipeline and the program of economic and sector work
agreed with the government reflect these objectives. Specific plans in the
industrial sector include assistance to selected major subsectors, including
chemicals, fertilizers, machinery manufacturing, electronics, and building
materials, consistent with their comparative advantage and national economic
priorities. The increasing devolution of responsibilities for planning and
implementation from the center to the provinces has the potential for a sig-
nificant impact on the industrial sector, provided the provincial authorities
can effectively enunciate and carry out their new role. The anticipated pro-
vincial operations, including the present project, involving subsector
restructuring in the context of coherent provincial industrial development
strategies, is designed to help selected provinces articulate and implement
their new responsibilities for industrial planning and project implementation.
The Bank is also assisting the rapidly growing nonstate industrial sector.
Initial support for the latter is through the Spark program (para. 2.14),
which is providing technical and financial support to rural enterprises.



- 9 -
2.18      In the financial sector, specific plans include further support for
CIB as well as other intermediaries designed to foster their overall institu-
tional developmnent in a more competitive banking enviromnent. While their
large market share argues for upgrading the leading nationwide specialized
banks, the possibility of strengthening some of the newer intermediaries will
also be reviewed. Support is also planned for improving the regulatory and
supervisory activities of the central bank and other core central agencies.
Financial intermediaries would also continue to help support operations with
principally real sector objectives. Under such operations, the intermediaries
would be expected to satisfy minimum eligibility criteria, and would receive
support for targeted institutional improvements, as is the case for the pres-
ent project.
2.19      In recent years the Bank, through its economic and operational work,
has sought to assist the government in defining and Implementing its program
of enterprise reform. This effort has included two sector reports and opera-
tions at the national and provincial level in the chemical, machine tool,
textile, paper and packaging subsectors designed to promote corporate and
physical restructuring. While considerable progress has been made in increas-
ing enterprise autonomy (para. 2.6), it is now apparent that further clarifi-
cation of the ownership function is essential to the next stage of enterprise
reform. At a recent workshop jointly organized by the Bank and the System
Reform Commission, participants agreed on the importance of several areas of
reform: separating policy and regulatory functions from the state's ownership
role; diversifying the ownership function between state agencies; relieving
state enterprises of some of their social welfare obligations; and further
steps to promote competition. The importance of consolidating enterprises
operating below economic scales, which typify much of China's state sector, to
enable them to compete effectively was also emphasized. Continued cooperation
in the design and monitoring of the next phase of "joint-stock" experiments is
anticipated, and a series of supporting operations is planned. Once the cor-
porate restructuring and enterprise reform program under the proposed SIDP is
fully implemented, the beneficiary enterprises would be suitable candidates
for 'joint-stock" experiments; similarly planned operations in the cement,
electronics and heavy engineering subsectors would promote the development of
diversified ownership mechanisms at the national level.
2.20      The Bank Group's program of economic and sector work and technical
assistance in industry, trade and finance provides the basis for an active
policy dialogue with the Government on the issues described in Section B
above. To date, studies have been completed on the state enterprise manage-
ment system, enterprise reform, the electronics subsector, the financial sec-
tor, external trade and capital, and industrial policies and structural
change. Further studies and technical assistance are underway on enterprise
reform and the automotive sector. Additional work is planned on other subsec-
tors at the national and provincial level. This work is being carried out
jointly with Chinese agencies.
2.21      In addition to the above, the Bank Group is the executing agency for
UNDP technical assistance projects and has financed two technical cooperation
credits, thereby encouraging the use of technical assistance, particularly for
project preparation. EDI's large training program in China and the past lend-
ing program have helped in raising investment efficiency in China by demon-
strating how the Hank Group's appraisal methodology can be applied to improve



- 10 -
project selection and efficiency of project design, and by strengthening
institutions' project preparation and appraisal capacities.



- 11 -
III. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN SHANGHAI
A. Background
3.1       Shanghai is one of three municipalities in China with provincial
status. The city proper is the largest in China. Shanghai led the country's
industrial revolution in the mid-nineteenth century, and by the 1930s, the
city was East Asia's largest port and leading manufacturing, commercial and
financial center. Until the mid-1980s, the municipality led all other prov-
inces in industrial production and exports. It has been the major supplier of
manufactured goods to the rest of China, and the largest single source of
fiscal revenues to the central government.  In the reform decade (1979-88),
however, Shanghai's economy stagnated compared to those of other coastal prov-
inces. Jiangsu and Guangdong have displaced Shanghai as the top industrial
producer and top exporter, respectively. In recent years the growth rate of
output in Shanghai's industry, the municipality's most important sector, has
lagged behind all but the poorest provinces.
3.2       One of the most important reasons for this relative stagnation is
that Shanghai's industrial structure, technology, and management have not been
able to handle the increasing competition in export markets and within China
caused by national economic reforms introduced since 1979. The municipality's
industrial sector is inefficient and inflexible. It includes many activities
that are not well suited to the characteristics of the location: congested
transport, lack of local raw materials, and, especially in the city, insuffi-
cient space for efficient factory layouts. Investment in support services and
infrastructure has been inadequate, and their underdevelopment is an addi-
tional constraint to Shanghai's industry.
3.3       The central government aims to transform Shanghai into one of the
largest industrial and trade centers on the west coast of the Pacific.
Shanghai, with its strong economic and human resource base, is intended to
lead China's integration into the world economy, and set an example for imple-
menting industrial restructuring and policy reforms. To encourage greater
competition among enterprises, SMG is gradually reforinr.g its economic manage-
ment and has begun to shift to indirect market controls. SMG also is con-
structing infrastructure within the city and in the surrounding suburbs and
rural areas to facilitate industrial growth, restructuring and modernization,
and encourage foreign investment.
B. Shanghai Municipality and its Industr.al Structure
3.4       Shanghai is located on the eastern fringe of the Yangtze River
Delta. Only 748 of its total 6,340 square kilometers are classified as urban.
This area comprises 12 central districts, collectively referred to as the
city, and two satellite towns. The rural and suburban areas are divided into
nine counties that include 197 townships and more than 3,000 villages. The
permanent population of Shanghai at the end of 1988 was estimated to be 12.62
million, of which 7.23 million (58 percent) was urban. Over six million
people live in the city proper.
3.5       Shanghai is China's richest province in terms of per capita income.
In 1988 its gross product amounted to Y 64.8 billion, or Y 5,145 ($1,379) per



- 12 -
capita--over four times the national average. Computed through net material
product, the per capita municipal income was Y 4,487 ($1,203), more than
50 percent higher than that of Beijing. Shanghai's GVIO, excluding village
and rural enterprises, was Y 118.1 billion ($32 billion) in 1988, which repre-
sented 8.1 percent of the national total. About 70 percent of GVIO originated
in the urban districts of the municipality. Industry accounts for 67 percent
of the municipality's net material product, while agriculture accounts for
4 percent and the growing service sector for 29 percent. The labor force num-
bers 7.7 million, of which 12 percent is engaged in the primary sector,
60 percent in the secondary sector, and 28 percent in the tertiary sector.
Most of the labor force is employed in industrial activities, even in suburban
areas of the municipality.
3.6       Shanghai's industry is fragmented and highly diversified.  There are
12,431 enterprises in the municipality (excluding about 20,000 village and
township enterprises): 4,318 state enterprises, 7,069 collectives, and 1,024
others, including foreign joint ventures. Of the 749 independent accounting
enterprises classified as large and medium in size, 11 employ more than 10,000
workers, 86 employ 3,000 to 10,000, 397 employ 1,000 to 3,000, and 255 employ
fewer than 1,000. There are enterprises involved in virtually every indus-
trial activity except mining. Light industry has the largest number of enter-
prises--7,134,-representing 57 percent of the total--and a GVIO of Y 59.6
billion ($16 billion) or 55 percent of the total, in constant 1980 prices.
Textiles and nonelectric machinery are the most important industrial subsec-
tors, accounting for 13.9 percent and 14.5 percent of GVIO in 1987, respec-
tively. These subsectors are followed by iron and steel (7.7 percent), elec-
tronics (7.5 percent), chemicals (6.4 percent), and electric machinery
(6.3 percent). In each of these subsectors, except textiles and chemicals,
the city's share of gross national output was 10 percent or more in 1988.
Shanghai also held large shares of the output of chemical fibers (21.2 per-
cent), and instruments (15.4 percent), among others.
3.7       State-owned enterprises dominate the municipality's industrial sec-
tor. Shanghai's state-owned enterprises contribute a higher proportion of
GVIO than state-owned enterprises do in other provinces. In 1988, about
68 percent of Shanghai's industrial output was generated by state enterprises,
compared to 43 percent in Jiangsu and 39 percent in Zhejiang. The state
enterprises are poorly positioned to operate in competitive markets, as their
flexibility is limited by the lack of separation of regulatory, ownership and
management functions, overly bureaucratic systems of organization and manage-
ment, and a long history of command planning. As in the rest of China, state-
owned industry in Shanghai has grown more slowly than the municipality's col-
lectives.
3.8       About one-quarter of Shanghai's industrial output is exported; the
sales of the remainder are split evenly between Shanghai and the rest of
China. In 1988, Shanghai exported $4.61 billion in merchandise. This repre-
sented an increase of 10.8 percent over 1987. Light products and textiles are
the major exports, accounting for 62 percent of the total in 1988.



- 13 -
C. Industrial Performance
3.9       Shanghai's industrial performance has fallen off in recent years.
This stagnation is evidenced by the municipality's low growth of GVIO, munici-
pal zevenue collection, and productivity. Despite this stagnation, though,
the efficiency of Shanghai's industry remains high compared to that of other
provinces.
3.10      Since 1978, Shanghai's GVIO has grown at a much slower pace than
that of its neighboring provinces. In Shanghai, growth has averaged 7.0 per-
cent per annum on average, while Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui and Fujian achieved
growth rates in excess of 13 percent, the national average. The difference
between growth rates was more marked between 1983 and 1987. During this
period growth of GVIO in Shanghai was 9.0 percent per annum, while the
national average was 16.5 percent (constant 1980 prices). As a result of
relatively lagging growth, Shanghai's industrial output as a p.oportion of
national industrial output decreased from 12.9 percent in 1978 to 7.1 percent
in 1988. Similarly, exports dropped from 29.7 percent to 9.7 percent of
national exports (measured in current US dollars).
3.11      Shanghai's municipal revenue, which is mainly collected from enter-
prises, also declined as a share of the country's total between 1978 and 1988,
from 17.0 percent to 10.1 percent.  Except for a brief period in 1984 and
1985, municipal revenue collections have fallen steadily in absolute terms
since 1980.  Budget revenues were Y 18.2 billion in 1985, Y 17.6 billion in
1986, Y 16.5 billion in 1987, and Y 15.4 billion in 1988.
3.12      The average labor productivity of Shanghai's state-owned industry,
Y 33,735 per person-year (PPY), is almost double the national average o_
Y 18,056 PPY, but its rate of improvement is below the national average in
almost all subsectors. Shanghai's industry remains the most profitable among
the provinces in China, with profit rates about 50 percent over the national
average. Nevertheless, because of their booming light industry collectives,
in 1988 Jiangsu and Zhejiang had output-to-capital ratios of 2.3 and 2.4,
respectively, while that of Shanghai was 2.0. However, for state-owned enter-
prises Shanghai has the same ratio (1.7) as the other two provinces (based on
1988 current prices). The national average for all independent accounting
enterprises Js 1.4, and 1.1 for state enterprises.
D. Resources and Constraints
3.13      Shanghai retains a lower percentage  - its revenue collections than
any other province--23.5 percent in 1986 and 1987, and as little as 10-15 per-
cent in previous years. In 1988, its collections were 10 percent of the
national total, but its budgetary expenditures were only 2.6 percent. The
municipality's restricted budget has resulted in poor infrastructure for
industrial development. It also has had negative consequences for enterprises
in Shanghai, from which SMG collects much of its revenue. Despite Shanghai's
lead position in gross profitability, the small proportion of profits retained
by enterprises in Shanghai has constrained investment. Since the 1970s, few
new sizable factories have been built other than the giant steel (Baoshan) and
petrochemical (Jingshan) complexes managed by the central government. The
limits on retained profits also have constrained enterprises from doing ade-
quate research and development.



- 14 -
3.14      The effects of the low rates of investment in the past can be seen
in the aging physical stock of capital in Shanghai. Buildings and machinery
are ouatdated and ill-equipped to meet the challenges of increasing interna-
tional and domestic competition. Factory sites are cramped and layouts exhi-
bit histories of piecemeal additions resulting in inefficient workflow pat-
terns. It is estimated that roughly two-thirds of machinery and equipment
matches international technological levels of the 1960s or earlier. This
partly explains the stagnation in productivity improvements (para. 3.12).
3.15      While the physical stock of capital needs improvement, Shanghai's
human resource base is strong compared to the rest of China. The municipal-
ity's relatively high labor productivity can be attributed to its unequalled
base in skilled human resources, accumulated experience in running industrial
enterprises, and educational, scientific and technical infrastructure, com-
pared to the rest of China. Shanghai has a relatively high proportion of
engineers and technicians on the staff of its industrial enterprises (6 per-
cent compared to 4 percent nationally) and a large number of scientific and
technical personnel in municipal research and design institutes. The 1982
census showed, for example, that Shangha' had 24 university graduates and 204
senior middle school (high school) graduates per 1,000 residents; in contrast,
the corresponding figures for Sichuan, an interior province, were only 3 and
40, respectively.
3.16      Shanghai's industrial performance has suffered from another con-
straint--a shortage of land. This shortage has several aspects. One is the
overcrowding and lack of space within the city itself. Second is the absence
of mechanisms to adjust land use patterns appropriately since there is no
market for land or usufruct rights. Third is the lack of funds for building
costly infrastructure needed to develop new industrial sites. Fourth is the
related problem of urban transport which results in employees being unwilling
to relocate to new factories outside the city. Finally, there is the problem
of environmental pollution, which has surpassed acceptable limits; for exam-
ple, 80 percent of the biological waste in the water originates in industrial
effluents.
3.17      Recently, the cost of raw materials has risen and reduced the prof-
itability of some Shanghai enterprises because their output prices have not
been adjusted. This sharp increase in the effective cost of raw materials
reflects the impact of the government's price reform program together with a
decline in the share of plan allocations that are obtained at low, controlled
prices and raw material shortages. Rising wage and energy costs have also led
to a decline in the profitability of enterprises since, reflecting the high
priotity attached by the goverimnent relating to the control of inflation,
liberalization of output prices in Shanghai has proceeded slowly. Neverthe-
less, output prices for the four subsectors that would be beneficiaries of the
proposed operation (para. 3.34) have been largely liberalized.



- 15 -
E. Development Strategy and Policies
3.18      In contrast to its role during the earlier 1980s, Shanghai has now
been designated as a leading center of China's economic reform effort and, as
a result, the Municipality has embsrked on a number of major initiatives.
SMG's broad goal is to take full advantage of China's opening to foreign mar-
kets, as well as the large and growing domestic market, by specializing in the
fields of industrial production for which it is best suited. To these ends,
the SMG has been gradually reforming industrial policy and providing incen-
tives ior competitive behavior by industrial enterprises. In keeping with
China's incremental reform process, successful experiments are expected to be
replicated elsewhere in the country. While some pause in this process was
evident during the austerity program in 1989, the central and municipal gov-
ernments' commitment to these initiatives has been reconfirmed and progress is
again evident. This section summarizes Shanghai's broad industrial develop-
ment strategy and policies. SMG's detailed strategy and the related policy
reforms are presented in Annex 1.
3.19      Shanghai is giving priority to those categories of industry that are
most suitable for the municipality's resource endowments and shortages: the
strong human skills and research base, and the lack of raw materials, energy
and land. In consumer goods and light industry, the two goals are to increase
exports and the range of goods produced for domestic consumption. The former
will be achieved by improving product quality, modernizing techniques of pro-
duction, and reorganizing enterprises to raise efficiency and lower costs.
The latter will be achieved by producing more of the higher quality goods
being demanded in China. In heavy industrial equipment and machinery, the
goals are to increase research and development efforts, improve production
efficiency and product quality in the electrical and mechanical industries
through greater product standardization, Integrate electronic and mechanical
products, and increase exports in these categories. For raw materials for
heavy industry, the goals are to make better use of the existing complexes,
develop downstream processing, and moderately increase the production of other
material inputs required by the priority subsectors in Shanghai.
3.20      Shanghai is implementing a number of enterprise reforms.  These
reforms are intended to revitalize the state-owned sector by making it more
responsive to market forces. This is to be achieved by granting enterprises
greater managerial autonomy, separating ownership from management, making
enterprises responsible for their profits and losses, reducing government
interference in routine enterprise affairs, and promoting new forms of group
company. Shanghai's experience in these reforms is serving as a national
example.
2.21      During 1987 and 1988, Shanghai abolished the administrative corpora-
tions that formed an intermediate level of bureaucratic control between the
industrial bureaus and the enterprises. Instead, subsector corporations were
created. These are not administrative units, but independent accounting enti-
ties that are responsible for their own profits and losses. They have limited
direct authority over the enterprises. They provide some services for the
enterprises, such as sales and marketing, for fees that serve as their main
source of income. SMG viewed the formation of these corporations as a first
step in obtaining a clearer separation of government and enterprise roles, and
carrying out a reorganization of the subsectors. The subsector restructuring



- 16 -
to be carried out under the project is an important next step in this process
(para. 3.37).
3.22      One of the obstacles to industrial restructuring in Shanghai has
been the difficulty of transferring assets through mergers or acquisitions of
enterprises or their parts. This difficulty has resulted from the unclear
ownership of state assets. SMG has initiated some experiments to solve this
problem, and is studying wider measures. Following the establishment of the
National Administrative Bureau of State-Owned Propercy at the central-govern-
ment level in 1988, Shanghai set up a parallel department under the Municipal
Bureau of Finance, with a mandate to devise policies for asset valuation and
transfer. The department is also playing a role in current efforts to define
the state-ownership function. SMG is experimenting with enterprise groups:
some involve full mergers of state-owned enterprises in the same line of busi-
ness; others resemble holding companies. Integrated companies along the lines
of those in the four SIDP subsectors are being established in several more
subsectors. Finally, SMG is at the forefront of current national efforts to
design and implement a shareholding system with diversified public ownership.
Several important joint-stock experiments have been initiated in the city and
others are contemplated. The corporations to be supported under the proposed
project are potential long-term candidates for such experiments once the nec-
essary corporate restructuring to be supported under the project has been
achieved and the prerequisites for successful joint-stock companies estab-
lished.
3.23      Since 1988, the primary instrument used to separate ownership from
management in Shanghai's large- and medium-sized enterprises has been the
contract responsibility system (CRS). Under the CRS, each enterprise negoti-
ates and signs a contract, valid for three to five years, with the Municipal
Bureau of Finance and the relevant industrial bureau. The contract always
specifies how much money the enterprise should submit as revenue to the gov-
ernment, and may also state goals for profit retention for investment or tech-
nical development, volume of exports, and, especially for new products, the
productioD volume and quality. Once the contract is signed, it is expected
that the managers will decide how to fulfill the enterprise obligations.
While the CRS has resulted in increased enterprise autonomy, it also has some
drawbacks. For example, it allows much negotiation of eacht enterprise's obli-
gations and benefits. This has resulted in lower effective profit taxes for
poorly performing enterprises and constrained the production and investment
strategies of other enterprises.
3.24      Authority over most investment decisions has been delegated from the
central government to SMG and Shanghai industriai bureaus. The current rules
for enterprises with no foreign ownership fall into two categories. First.
all new capital construction projects with costs under Y 30 million ($8 mil-
lion) require SMG approval. Second, technical renovation projects--those
involving replacement of part of a factory--require the relevant industrial
bureau's approval for amounts up to Y 3 million in the case of light industry
and for amounts up to Y 5 million for heavy industry.  Technical renovation
projects between these amounts and Y 30 million require SMG approval. In
either category, projects costing more than Y 30 million require central go7-
ernment approval. It is expected that further steps to relax these limits
will be initiated once the current national stabilization program is success-
fully brought to its conclusion.



- 17 -
3.25      During 1987 and 1988, some flexibility in setting industrial prices
in Shanghai was introduced.  Jurisdiction over many prod -t prices, particu-
larly for consumer goods, was transferred from central government to SMG. The
Shanghai Price Bureau has in turn delegated the pricing of many goods to the
enterprises. Nevertheless, it still monitors these prices regularly to ensure
that they do not deviate from guideline prices by more than 20 percent, or by
an amount necessary to match quality improvements over the guideline's product
definition. Since the stabilization program began in 1989, only smaller devi-
ations have been allowed; however, further liberalization can be expected in
the medium term.
3.26      Foreign trade reform in Shanghai began in 1979 as part of the
national policy of opening the economy to the outside world. Since then, the
number of channels for foreign ti:ade has been increased. Hitherto Shanghai
has been slow to grant direct export rights to enterprises, and this has been
identified as a cause of poor export performance, particularly in markets
where the international norm is custom production and contact between buyer
and producer is important. However, in 1989, about half of Shanghai's export-
ing enterprises switched to the agency system of exports instead of selling
their goods outright to a trading company as under the previous purchasing
system for exports. Under the new agency system, trading companies export the
products of enterprises for a fee. Some subsectors are introducing training
schemes to improve the enterprises' ability to export and are planning phased
programs to acquire export rights from the trade companies and other agents.
3.27      Several additional export incentives have been introduced during the
last few years. First, enterprises are now allowed to retain a share of their
foreign exchange earnings, with the share varying from as low as 8 percent for
below-plan exports, to as much as 93 percent for direct exporters.1/ They
do not actually hold foreign exchange, but their foreign exchange receipts are
converted into domestic currency by the Bank of China and given to the enter-
prises. In addition, they receive that currency and a quota, or entitlement,
to purchase a fixed amount of foreign exchange for approved imports. Second,
enterprises receive rewards for exceeding their export targets, including
bonuses, larger shares of retained foreign exchange for above-target earnings,
and the freedom to sell that foreign exchange at the Foreign Exchange Adjust-
ment Center, where market rates have until recently been higher than the offi-
cial exchange rate. As a result of these efforts, Shanghai's enterprises now
have access to the most active foreign exchange market in China. Thirdly,
China has sought to maintain export competitiveness through regular adjust-
ments in the official rate, the most recent of which occurred in November
1990; the official rate is now close to that prevailing in the adjustment
centers.
3.28      At least four measures have been taken by the central and municipal
governments to increase the number of financial instruments and institutions
in Shanghai. First, the Bank of Communications was reestablished and its
headquarters situated in Shanghai; this step increased competition among
Shanghai's financial institutions and should help to improve financial ser-
vices for industrial borrowers. Second, Shanghai now has a small primary
1/   For a discussion of the foreign exchange retention mechanism see:  World
Bank: China: External Trade and Capital, 1988, Chapter 2.



- 18 -
securities market; a stock exchange was opened in December 1990. Third, an
interbank money market was recently introduced. Fourth, two foreign exchange
adjustment c,nters were established in 1987; since then they have grown
rapidly in volume.
3.29      SMG has modified technology policy over the last three years to
encourage technology development in Shanghai's enterprises. Firms may negoti-
ate that 1 percent to 2 percent of sales be retained for research and develop-
ment purposes. Enterprises can now hire personnel from university and
research institutes as consultants, and may enter into contracts for joint
reFearch with these organizations. Research institutes receive financial
rewards if the technology they develop is used by an enterprise. Research
institutes are now expected to generate their own funds. Strong client rela-
tionships with enterprises are making research more relevant to enterprises'
needs; however, SMG will need to monitor this closely to ensure proper diffu-
sion of technology developed by research institutes to industrial enterprises
and that basic research is not neglected.
3.30      SMG also is actively encouraging foreign investment as a way to
bring in sophisticated technology, gain access to export markets, and develop
local supplier industries. In June 1988, the Shanghai Foreign Investment
Commission (SFIC) was established to provide "one-stop" approvals for foreign
investments. Within Shanghai municipality, industrial parks also have been
established to provide appropriate infrastructure for foreign factories. The
redevelopment of the Pudong area of the municipality is being designed to
attract foreign firms through provision of adequate modern infrastructure and
support services for businesses and trade.
3.31      SMG also is altering industrial location and environmental protec-
tion policy. The goals are to reduce congestion and pollution in the city
proper, and to facilitate the movement of enterprises to locations with ade-
quate space for economic scales of production. A zoning system for new enter-
prises has been introduced for the city and surrounding counties and satel-
lite. The new zoning system also designates restricted locations for heavily
polluting firms. Relocation of existing factories is still difficult, how-
ever, because there is no land market.
3.32      Several schemes have been introduced to facilitate labor mobility.
Lifetime employment guarantees are being phased out. For example, employment
contracts lasting one or several years have been introduced and must be used
for all newly hired industrial workers. Some enterprises have established
retraining programs to teach workers new techniques of production, and indus-
trial bureaus are providing retraining for some senior and skilled workers.
Under the Labor Bureau's guidance, enterprises are establishing job defini-
tions and standards to encourage evaluation of employee performance and fairer
competition for positions.
3.33      Enterprises in Shanghai have traditionally paid their workers'
(unfunded) pensions upon retirement. This placed a cost burden on older
enterprises, which typically have a lower ratio of active to retired workers
than new competitors in other provinces. The pension system also made workers
reluctant to move between enterprises, since this would result in lost bene-
fits. To address these problems, a new municipal pension scheme was estab-
lished in 1988. The new scheme is based on employer contributions and is



- 19 -
administered by the newly formed Consolidated Retirement Pension Funds (CRPF)
under tle Shanghai Labor Bureau.  An unemployment   mpensation scheme has also
been established. Under that scheme, employees involuntarily released from
industrial jobs receive payments until jobs are found for them, or for a maxi-
mum of two years.
F. The Four Subsectors
3.34      There are four subsectors included in the project:  printing machin-
ery, electrical apparatus, electronic components, and precision and scientific
instruments. The printing macht.nery and electrical apparatus subsectors are
under the Shanghai Mechanical and Electrical Industries Administration
(SMEIA). SMEIA is the largest bureau in Shanghai and accounts for about
25 percen. of the municipality's industrial output. The electronic components
and precision and scientific instruments subsectors are under the Shanghai
Instrumentation and Electronic Industry Bureau (SIEB). Chart I shows the
organizational relationships between the subsector corporation, bureau, SMG
and Central Government. Chart 2 shows the internal structure of a bureau.
3.35      These subsectors are among the priority suDsectors in SMG's develop-
ment strategy (para. 3.19). Each has historically been a leader in China and
occupies a significant or dominant position in its domestic market now. Nev-
ertheless, competition from new domestic producers has reduced profitability
and, in some cases, also diminished market share. Exports also are low,
despite China's potential competitiveness.
3.36      During preparation of the project, consultants (para. 1.3) carried
out extensive market research and analysis of the weaknesses, capabilities and
potential of each of the four subsectors. The consultants' reports are avail-
able in the Project File. Based on this work, and that of Bank staff, enter-
prise and subsector policy reforms cutting across th four subsectors have
been agreed between the Bank and SMG. These reforms are described below
first. Then the agreements with respect to the subsector specific product and
market strategies and organizational restructuring that would be supported
under the project are briefly described for each subsector. Therefore, this
section provides a brief descriptior. of the intentions of SMG regarding the
development program and strategy for the project subsectors. A translation of
the full text of SMG's official statement on its intentions is attached as
Annex 2. Details on the subsectors and their strategies can be found in
Annexes 3 to 6.
Enterprise anid Subsector Policy Reforms
3.37      Under the project, SMG is undertaking a common set of enterprise and
subsector policy reforms across the four subsectors. These measures, which
are under the control of SMG, are intended to provide an appropriate structure
and policy framework for the managerial, organizational and technical improze-
ments to be implemented under the project. These improvements are intended to
raise efficiency, growth and competitiveness, consistent with the broad strat-
egy of Shanghai's industrial development and to provide reform models which
can be subsequently replicated in other subsectors. The measures include:
(a) the legal establishment of integrated corporations (paras. 3.38-3.40);
(b) phased introduction of direct export rights for the integrated corpora-
tions (para. 3.41); and (c) improved access by the subsectors to foreign



- 20 -
exchange (para. 3.42). Since appraisal, the four integrated corporations have
been legally established. In addition, organizational changes within the cor-
porations have begun. These changes are consistent with the introduction of
direct export rights and the subsector restructuring, which would take place
under the project.
3.38      Integrated Corporations.  In 1988, each of the four subsectors com-
prised essentially all of Shanghai's factories which manufacture products in
the subsector's broad product group. However, these were independent, often
suboptimally sized factories with many overlapping products and duplicate
manufacturing processes. The subsector corporations had limited control over
the factories under them (para. 3.21), and, therefore, were unable to carry
out the needed product and manufacturing rationalization. To address this
issue, in each of the four subsectors, an integrated corporation was legally
established and a charter issued for it in May 1989. Each consists of some,
but not all, of the factories that were in the subsector as of January 1989.
Each integrated corporation consists only of priority factories that have an
important role to play in implementation of viable product, market and manu-
facturing strategies. (See Annexes 2 through 6 for details on the strategies,
and the lists of factories included in each integrated corporation.) In the
future, additional factories could be acquired by or merged with the inte-
grated enterprise. Joint ventures with foreign firms could also be possible.
The decision to acquire or merge would be based on consideration of the tech-
nical and economic efficiency of the units to be merged and their impact on
the larger integrated corporation that would result from the union. Further-
more, in each subsector, there are some factories, such as foundries, that
supply critical inputs to the manufacturing processes in the subsector. They
were initially included in the integrated corporation, but may become indepen-
dent of the corporation later.
3.39      For each integrated corporation, financial consolidation of the
subsector corporation and constituent factories was carried out within nine
months of charter issuance. The municipal government's completion of this
process, despite the delays in the Bank's consideration of this project which
occurred during this period, provides strong evidence of the SMG's commitment
to the restructuring program. The integrated corporation assumes all debt and
tax obligations, including those under the CRS, as a single unit. Related
changes are being phased in over two years. At the end of that period, the
integrated corporation would become the sole legal entity, responsible for all
profits and losses. It would exercise certain rights, including export and
foreign exchange retention, as a single unit. The integrated corporation
would be empowered to reallocate all resources, including employees, materials
and equipment, between factories and divisions as needed to rationalize pro-
duction. After the transition period, the formerly separate factories and
subsector corporation will lose their status as independent legal entities.
At negotiations, understandings were reached on appropriate transition periods
for the subsector corporations. These enterprise reforms are reflected in the
charters, found acceptable to the Bank, and approved by SMG in May 1989. That
approval was required before any subloan could be made to the corporation
(para. 4.8). The charters define the structure, composition, rights and obli-
gations of each integrated corporation, and the means by which these may be
amended in the future (see Annex 2).



- 21 -
3.40      The integrated corporations are establishing corporate headquarters
that would have the following responsibilities: setting company-wide policy;
implementing the investment strategy; financial management; export develop-
ment; purchase of bulk raw materials; and coordinating the divisions. Busi-
ness divisions that would be profit centers, responsible for product develop-
ment, production, sales and marketing, have also been defined, and staff
reorganization is under way. Each diviqion involves one or more factories,
which will operate as cost centers. Some of the corporations have research
institutes and material processing centers that will also be cost centers.
SMG recognizes that complex tasks will have to be carried out in the inte-
grated corporations in terms of organizational restructuring, design and
implementation of management systems, and financial and manufacturing consoli-
dation. Therefore, it has been agreed that assistance of consultants to pro-
vide the restructured corporations with expertise in these critical areas
would be provided under the project (para. 4.16).
3.41      Trade Rights.  Under the project the integrated corporations would
use the agency system for exporting instead of the old purchasing system
(para. 3.26). A joint office of corporate staff and foreign trade company
staff will be established to handle exports. This arrangement would facili-
tate both the training of corporate trade staff and direct contact between the
corporation and overseas clients. Integrated corporations would be granted
direct export rights once they have built up trained staff and demonstrated
their ability to take responsibility for the risks associated with exporting.
Annual reviews of each integrated corporation's progress in this area will be
carried out to decide when-it would be appropriate to grant direct export
rights (para. 4.14).
3.42      Access to Foreign Exchange.  Each integrated corporation would also
be allowed to retain as much of its foreign exchange earnings as needed to
service the subloans received under the project and meet other operational
needs. In addition, the corporations would be allowed to buy foreign exchange
at the Foreign Exchange Adjustment Centers should their export earnings be
inadequate to meet their needs.
Subsector Restructuring
3.43      Electrical Apparatus.  Before the commencement of the agreed
restructuring (paras. 3.38-3.40), Shanghai's electrical apparatus subsector
consisted of a subsector corporation (SEAC), 28 factories, a research insti-
tute and four subsidiaries of the corporation. The subsidiaries provided ser-
vices--material procurement, marketing and sales, systems engineering and
technology development--to the factories. The subsector employs over 23,000
people. In 1989, its total sales were Y 703 million, and its profits were
19 percent of sales. The Shanghai subsector's domestic market share was about
10 percent in 1987. Exports were about $8 million in 1989. A significant
share of these exports were contactors and relays sent to European firms under
buyback agreements.
3.44      Shanghai's electrical apparatus subsector is growing more slowly
than its domestic competitors. It has failed to expand output in line with
market demand. Ma.y of its products are outdated. The subsector's operating
efficiency is good compared to many other domestic producers, but very low by
international standards. Compared to iniustrialized countries, manufacturing



- 22 -
costs are high, delivery times are long, and technology is outdated. Many
products are produced by several factories in the subsector, each operating
below economic scale. Overseas marketing has been weak.
3.45      Since appraisal, 21 of the 28 factories in the electrical apparatus
subsector have been reorganized into an integrated corporation with five divi-
sions according to product groups. This will allow consolidation of fragmen-
ted facilities, and permit efficiency gains. Export marketing would be han-
dled at the corporate level and domestic sales at the divisional level. Three
key strategies have been identified for the domestic market: (a) maintain and
strengthen SEAC's lead position in components and systems products through
efficiency gains and production of new-generation products; (b) build elec-
tronics capabilities for applications in electrical apparatus; and,
(c) strengthen marketing and sales capabilities by setting up nationwide sales
and service centers and establishing a corporate brand. To increase exports,
the corporation would focus on independent standard components and dependent
standard subassemblies for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and build
export channels for markets in Southeast Asia and the United States.
3.46      Electronic Components.  In March 1989, Shanghai's passive electronic
components subsector consisted of a subsector corporation, 24 factories, and
one research and development institute. The subsector's share of the domestic
market declined from 25 percent in 1983 to 7 percent in 1989 and profits as a
share of sales declined from 40 percent to 18 percent in the same period.
Restructuring was considered necessary to increase the subsector's competi-
tiveness through increased product specialization, larger scales of produc-
tion, quality improvement and lower unit costs. Exports were Y 34 million in
1989, one-quarter of China's exports of electronic components. However,
export quality was low.
3.47      Following appraisal of the proposed SIDP, only eight of the 24 fac-
tories and the research institute were joined to form the integrated corpora-
tion. This arrangement allows the integrated corporation to focus on priority
products that have a strong potential to be competitive in domestic and inter-
national markets. The factories are being grouped into five business units.
There are three aspects of the strategy: first, for existing products with
strong market demand, technology will be upgraded and production efficiency
improved to international standards; second, for new products such as chip
components and hybrid circuits, foreign technology will be acquired and pro-
duction for the domestic market geared up; and tlird, marketing will be
improved and targeted on television manufacturers and foreign joint ventures
in China as well as OEMs and distributors in foreign markets. In the long
run, the objective is to improve technology to the level of the leaders in the
industry.
3.48      Precision and Scientific Instruments.  In March 1989, Shanghai's
precision and scientific instruments subsector consisted of a subsector corpo-
ration, 13 factories and a research institute. In 1989, it employed over
9,000 people and had sales of Y 169 million. All the factories are small by
international standards. Output grew by 5 percent a year between 1983 and
1989--faster than the domestic average of 3 percent for this subsector. Nev-
ertheless, its profitability has declined from 42 percent to less than 20 per-
cent of sales over the same period and competition from domestic manufacturers
has increased. The subsector earned $3.3 million from exports in 1989. The



- 23 -
Shanghai subsector has a wider range of products than its competitors, and
needs to focus on a smaller range of products and improve quality. Currently,
its overhead costs and inventories are high, equipment utilization is low, and
the production cycle is long. Marketing and financial accounting systems are
poor.
3.49      The strategy to be adopted by Shanghai's precision and scientific
instruments subsector under the project aims to reduce unit costs and raise
quality to gain a greater share of domestic and foreign markets. Six of the
13 factories have now been regrouped to form a single integrated corporation.
The new corporation will concentrate on seven products in three groups for the
domestic market, and two products for export. The strategy for this subsector
has five elements: (a) improve design and quality, and integrate new technol-
ogies into priority products; (b) rationalize and consolidate priority facto-
ries; (c) introduce modern management practices; (d) improve marketing chan-
nels; and (e) train and redeploy staff.
3.50      Printing Machinery.  In March 1989, Shanghai's printing machinery
subsector consisted of a subsector corporation and 12 factories. Eight enter-
prises manufactured printing and post-press machines and four manufactured
components.  In 1989, the subsector employed 7,000 people, and had total sales
of Y 185 million. The Shanghai subsector's domestic market share was 13 per-
cent in 1987.  The Shanghai subsector's exports of $5.0 million in 1990 are
almost three times the exports of 1983.
3.51      Although Shanghai has been the traditional leader in printing
machinery in China, there are major challenges to Shanghai's position as a
result of shifts in domestic market demand and initiatives taken by competi-
tors. The domestic market is growing at an annual rate of 10 percent and
there is excess demand for printing machines. There is also growing demand
for new products to improve the speed and quality of printing. The Shanghai
subsector has not fully kept up with this growth. In addition, the subsector
is not able to exploit fully its export potential, despite its significant
cost advantage in many products. The subsector needs to upgrade product qual-
ity, develop new machines, and sell through new marketing channels.
3.52      Since appraisal, the printing machinery subsector in Shanghai has
undertaken a program of reorganization, and is adopting a focused product and
market strategy. The new integrated corporation includes a large number of
existing factories because each has a critical role in implementing the agreed
product, market and manufacturing strategies. However, under SIDP, there
would be substantial rationalization of production to remedy the current prod-
uct duplication and excessive vertical integration. The corporation is being
organized into three divisions based on three key product groups: large
presses, small and medium presses, and post-press equipment. For large
presses, the approach will be to gear up production of web presses based on
imported technology, and to develop multicolor sheet-fed offsets, beginning
with low-speed models. In small and medium presses, the division will invest
in equipment for the manufacture of letter presses with the flexibility to
accommodate the anticipated shift of demand from letter presses to sheet-fed
offsets, and increase production of duplicators, which are in great demand.
For the post-press division, the priority will be on upgrading quality and
increasing production. To increase export earnings, the integrated corpora-
tion will seek joint production agreements with some of its curre.t technology



- 24 -
partners for sales into Western markets, and for the Southeast Asian markets,
it will appoint a sales and servicing agent.
G. Bank Role and Strategy
3.53      To revitalize its economy Shanghai needs to adjust the structure and
management of its industrial sector (para. 3.18). The Bank is well-placed to
assist SMG in formulating, implementing and financing an integrated package of
needed policy and enterprise reform measures based on its experience with
industrial restructuring elsewhere in the world and previous economic and
sector work and lending operations in China. This experience includes the
industrial restructuring projects in Hungary, Mexico, and Indonesia, past
sector work on enterprise reform in China, and the Shanghai Machine Tool
Project.
3.54      Through the work already done on the proposed project, the Bank has
established a broad dialogue with SMG on overall industrial development strat-
egy and policy in Shanghai. At the subsector level, the proposed project
would assist in the design and implementation of specific strategies and
restructuring programs for four priority subsectors in Shanghai. These
efforts would assist SMG in developing relevant approaches to, and experience
in, the kind of industrial restructuring that is required elsewhere in the
industrial sector, and provide models for subsequent replication in Shanghai
and the rest of China. In addition, the operation would contribute to insti-
tution building in Shanghai through technical assistance to strengthen the
capability of SMG to do industrial sector planning and policy analysis in two
ways:  first, it would improve local consulting capability in the area of
industrial restructuring because three major consulting firms in Shanghai have
worked closely with the foreign firms that have helped develop the subsector
development programs, and local consulting firms would work on the implementa-
tion of the programs also; and second, two policy studies to be done in con-
junction with the project would contribute to building policy-making institu-
tions in Shanghai. One of these studies, which is looking at enterprise
reforms and the supporting mechanisms to be developed, such as boards of
directors and asset transfers, is already under way. The other study would
monitor the impact of policy changes on the four subsectors and suggest modi-
fications if needed.
3.55      The consulting firms, with the assistance of the subsector corpora-
tions and SMG (para. 1.3), have carried out in-depth studies of the four sub-
sectors, which are satisfactory to the Bank and available in the Project File.
These studies were financed under the Japan Grant Facility. They focus on:
subsector competitiveness in domestic and foreign markets, technology and
manufacturing capabilities and trends, product and market strategies, organi-
zational development strategies, investment plans and overall program imple-
mentation. Annexes 3 to 6 summarize the main findings and recommendations of
the consultants' reports. The Bank has played an active role in guiding and
providing inputs to the studies. These studies have helped form the basis for
a constructive dialogue with SMG, the subsector corporations and their indus-
trial bureaus, and agreement with the Bank on development strategies and pro-
grams for the four subsectors, including subsector policy reforms, organiza-
tional and technological restructuring, and technical assistance. The initial
organizational restructuring is underway.



- 25 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1       The proposed project forms part of the Bank's overall effort to
support the implementation of GOC's program of industrial reform. The project
will focus on four subsectors in Shanghai which have been given priority in
the municipal government's development strategy: electronic components, pre-
cision instruments, electrical apparatus and printing machinery. The project
would assist the implementation of the Shanighai government's development
strategies and programs for the above subsectors. Specifically it would pro-
mote increased efficiency, and greater domestic and international competitive-
ness in the four subsectors through:
(a) rationalization, modernization and expansion of plants in the four
subsectors based on sound product and market strategies, upgraded
technological and manufacturing capabilities, and clear financial
and economic performance criteria;
(b)  organizational restructuring and upgrading of internal enterprise
management systems; and,
(cl subsector policy reforms.
B. Project Components
4.2       The project will have three main components:
(a) financial assistance for technological restructuring of enterprises
in the four subsectors;
(b) technical assistance to support organizational restructuring, man-
agement upgrades and project implementation, including training,
computer hardware and software, and management consultancy services;
and,
(c) institutional development assistanr-e for economic policy making and
the PFIs in Shanghai.
The description of the three components is as follows.
Financial Assistance Component
4.3       The project will provide financial assistance of $133.8 million out
of the proposed Bank loan toward meeting the foreign currency requirements for
technological restructuring in the four subsectors, including the costs of
production equipment and technology transfer. The funds would be onlent
through the PFIs (para. 4.17). Altogether for the four subsectors, about 40
subprojects for technological restructuring have been proposed for financing
under the project. In tne electronic components subsector, the investments
would include improvements in product design and quality, capacity expansions
and manufacturing improvements for existing products such as capacitors,
resistors, connectors and switches, transformers, relays and future growth



- 26 -
products such as chip components and hybrid circuits. In the precision
instruments subsector, the investments would include improvements in product
design and quality, capacity expansions and manufacturing improvements in
three key areas: analytical instruments--spectrophotometers and chromato-
graphs; general purpose and environmental control instruments; and optical
system products, particularly microscopes and optical elements.
4.4       Financial assistance for technological restructuring would also be
provided to the electrical apparatus subsector. The specific areas to be sup-
ported include: gearing up for volume production of new generation products
already being manufactured under existing technology transfer agreements from
industrialized countries (e.g., contactors): developing new systems products
based on technology for which licensing arrangements have already been negoti-
ated (e.g., AC drive converters); developing a few key new generation stand-
alone products (e.g., voltage control units and leakage switches); and devel-
oping some electronics products for application in electrical apparatus (e.g.,
uninterruptible power supply). In the printing machinery subsector, financial
assistance would be provided for increasing production of large web-presses,
as well as labor-intensive subassemblies of these presses for export, and of
the large, medium performance, multicolor sheet-fed offset machines, introduc-
tion of small and medium multicolor sheet-fed offset machines and duplicators,
replacing the old generation of letterpresses, mainly for the Chinese market.
In addition, support would be provided for upgrading product quality and
increased output of post-press machines (e.g., cutting and binding machines).
Technical Assistance Component
4.5       The project will provide technical assistance to finance computer
equipment and software, training, and consulting services. Broad outlines of
programs in each of these areas have been established by the corriorations with
the assistance of consultants. Each corporation will submit its requests for
such financing in the form of subloan proposals to the PFIs; these are expec-
ted to total $16.2 million. The category of training includes courses for
management and technology development, and travel abroad for acquisition of
foreign technology. About $8.5 million of the loan will be used for this
purpose. During negotiations it was agreed that the Bank and SMG would review
annually, by September 30 each year, a 12-month program for overseas training
financed under the project. The requiremenits of computer equipment including
software have already been specified for each corporation at an estimated
total cost of $2.7 million.
4.6       During appraisal, agreement was reached on the nature of consultant
services needed during project implementation.  They cover services in the
areas of:  project management, organizational restructuring, production con-
solidation, preparation of feasibility reports, management information sys-
tems, financial and cost accounting, and industrial engineering and opera-
tional effectiveness. About $5 million of the loan will be used to finance
the necessary consultant services. Generic terms of reference (TORs) for
these services are included at Annex 7. Each of the four corporations has
tailored these generic TORs to their own specific requirements and the revised
TORs have been agreed with the Bank. Local and foreign consultants will be
engaged to help carry out the scope of work in the TORs. The Bank has
approved the corporations' request to negotiate directly with the consultants
who helped develop the subsector strategies and development programs to assist



- 27 -
in carrying out the above scope of work. Appointment of all the consultants
needed to carry out the full scope of work outlined in the TORs is a condition
of loan effectiveness.
Institutional Development Component
4.7       The project will asssist institutional development in the areas of
economic policy-making, project appraisal, and subsectoral restructuring.
During project implementation, two interinstitutional studies will be coordi-
nated by the Shanghai Planning Economic Research Institute (SPERI). These
studies involve monitoring the impact of policy changes on the four subsec-
tors, and assessing the implementation of enterprise reforms in those subsec-
tors as well as their wider applicability in Shanghai's industrial sector.
Terms of reference for these two studies have been agreed with the Bank.
Since March 1989, managers and project staff from the five PFIs have attended
courses on project appraisal. In April 1991, a seminar on industrial restruc-
turing will be given by the Economic Development Institute in collaboration
with the Shanghai Planning Commission, and educational institutiopq in
Shanghai. This course will assist industrial managers in Shanghai to analyze
the need for industrial restructuring and appropriate restructuring methods.
The institutional development component is being financed by SMG; this finan-
cing includes $105,000 equivalent from the Japanese Grant Facility to finance
the estimated foreign costs of the studies and courses.
C. Eligibility Criteria
4.8       The Bank has reviewed subprojects in the pipeline for their appro-
priateness with respect to the agreed subsector strategies (para. 3.37). The
enterprises would submit the feasibility studies of subprojects according to
the format agreed with the Bank (Annex 8). The PFIs would appraise each sub-
project proposed for financing to ensure that: (a) it is sponsored by a cor-
poration that has been established as an integrated enterprise, as reflected
in a charter acceptable to the Bank and approved by SMG (para. 3.38); (b) it
is consistent with the subsector strategies agreed between SMG and the Bank
(Annex 2); (c) the subproject and the sponsoring factory are in compliance
with environmental control guidelines (para 4.31); and, (d) the subproject
would nermit the sponsoring corporation to maintain a satisfactory financial
position. Furthermore, all subprojects except for those for training, compu-
ter equipment (including software) and consultant services, would have to have
minimum financial rates of return of 12 percent in constant prices. Subproj-
ects above the free limit would also have to have an economic rate of return
greater than 12 percent in constant prices. Assurances on the above eligibil-
ity criteria were obtained at negotiPtions.
D. Project Cost and Financing
4.9       The total cost of the pipeline of subprojects, including incremental
working capital, is estimated at $320 million (based on November 1990 prices),
of which $180 million (56 percent) would be in foreign exchange. Table 4.1
summarizes the estimated project costs including contingencies. The estimates
are of a tentative nature as the project components are based on preliminary
cost estimates of the subprojects in the pipeline. Consequently, no attempt
has been made to separate contingencies. Final cost estimates for the actual



- 28 -
subprojects financed could be different since these would be prepared by the
enterprises for subproject appraisal by the PFIs.
Table 4.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST /a
Local    Foreign    Total    2 of Total
------ ($ million) ------
FINANCIAL tS.SISTANCE COMPONENT
Technological Restructuring
Capital Costs:
Instrumentation                         8.0       27.9       35.9        11.2
Electronic components                  16.9       64.6       81.5        25.5
Printing machinery                     11.1       22.3       33.4        10.5
Electrical apparatus                   14.2       40.4       54.6        17.1
Subtotal                             50.2      155.2      205.4        64.3
Incremental working capital /b           81.5        -         81.5        25.5
Subtotal for Technological
Restructuring                     131.7     155.2      286.9         89.8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Training                                  2.6       11.7       14.3         4.5
Computer Hardware and Software            0.8        3.7        4.5         1.4
Consultant Services                       4.1        9.7       13.8         4.3
Subtotal for Technical
Assistance Component                7.5       25.1       32.6        10.2
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT         0.1        -          0.1         -
Total Financing Required            139.3      180.3      319.6       100.0
/a  Final estimates to depend on individual subproject cost estimates that
will be prepared by the PFIs at the time of subproject appraisal. Since
these are preliminary estimates, no attempt has been made to separate
contingencies. Project cost estimates include taxes on local costs and
customs duties on imports. Local taxes are about 15 percent of local
costs. Foreign costs financed by the Bank would be exempt from customs
duties.
/b Imports of raw materials and parts will be financed through foreign
exchange earnings, for which the working capital is included in the local
cost.



- 29 -
4.10      Furthermore, the pipeline may change if the PFIs' detailed analysis
shows that some of the subprojects in the current pipeline are not viable and
therefore no longer eligible for financing, or if other suitable subprojects
are developed. Moreover, although the project is intended to assist the four
subsectors, the PFIs would be alluwed to use the proceeds of the loan for this
project to finance subprojects in other industrial subsectors as agreed
between the Bank and SMG on the basis of agreed development strategies to be
prepared by the municipality; assurances to this effect were obtained at nego-
tiations.
4.11      The proposed Bank loan will provide $150 million.  Based on the
initial pipeline of subprojects, this would leave a foreign exchange financing
gap of $30.4 million. If there is such a gap after all subprojects are
appraised and firm foreign exchange estimates are known, SMG would finance it.
Local currency requirements would be financed by the PFIs, other Chinese banks
and the enterprises' own resources. Table 4.2 summarizes the financing plan
for the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SMG will
make available all funds needed for implementation of the project.
Table 4.2: ESTIMATED FINANCING PLAN
(S million)
Local          Foreign          Total
FINANCING PLAN
IBRD                                          -            150.0            150.0
PFIs, other banks and enterprises          139.2              -             139.2
Shanghai Municipal Government /a              0.1            30.3            30.4
Total Financing Plan                    139.3           180.3           319.6
/a  The Japanese Grant Facility will finance the estimated $35,000 equivalent
in foreign costs for the studies, and $70,000 equivalent of the foreign
costs for training seminars.
E. Project Implementation Arrangements
4.12      Project implementation will be carried out by SMG, the subsector
corporations and the participating financial institutions. During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached on the formats and frequencies of reports to be
used by each of these parties to monitor project implementation (para. 5.9).
Role of the Shanghai Municipal Government
4.13      SMG will carry out the enterprise and subsector policy reforms as
outlined in the agreed development program and strategy (Annex 2), and coordi-
nate and monitor all project-related activities. For the latter, SMG has
established a project monitoring unit (PMU) comprised of staff from the
Shanghai Planning Commission, the Shanghai Bureau of Finance and the Shanghai
Foreign Economic Relations ar1d Trade Commission. The unit's responsibilities



- 30 -
include: (a) monitoring technical assistance and training under the project;
(b) providing advice to the subsector corporations and PFIs on Bank procedures
including matters related to procurement and disbursement; and (c) monitoring
project implementation and forwarding to the Bank regular reports on progress
of the project. During 1989, staff of the PMU participated In seminars orga-
rized by SMG and MOF covering Bank disbursement and procurement procedures and
reporting requirem!nts.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
SMG that it will maintain the PMU throughout project implementation, with
competent staff in adequate numbers, and given functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank-
4.14      During negotiations, assurances- were obtained that SMG also would
maintain a Steering Committee of high-level officials to guide the work of the
PMU with composition, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
In addition, this Steering Committee would annually review the progress of the
project. Moreover, the Shanghai Planning Economic Research Institute will be
monitoring the impact of the subsector policy and enterprise reforms under-
taken in connection with the project and identifying any adjustments or new
reforms needed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SMG will
each year: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, by April ;5 of each year, an
assessment of policy and enterprise reforms in the project subsectors and
(b) exchange views on these assessments with the Bank.
Role of the Subsector Corporations
4.15      Restructuring programs in each subsector will be carried out by
project implementation units (PIU) set up in each corporation. These units
will come under the responsibility of the general manager of the corporation
and be headed by a project manager. The project manager will divide the PIU
into specific task groups in ctitical restructuring areas such as organization
structure and development, product development, management systems, and opera-
tional effectiveness programs. The role of the task groups will be the devel-
opment of detailed plans and execution of appropriate implementation activi-
ties. Project managers will regularly report to the corporate management on
progress and any problems in project implementation. The project implementa-
tion schedule is at Annex 9. Annex 10 gives the key performance indicators
for project implementation. One of the first tasks will be to consolidate the
financial accounts of the new integrated corporations. During negotiations
assurance. were obtained from SMG that this would be done within nine months
of charter issuance for each corporation. Draft consolidated statements were
completed at that time, and were revised following discussion with the Bank.
4.16      Because of the complex nature of the subsector restructuring pro-
grams, consultants will be hired to assist the PIUs in overall project manage-
ment and development and implementation of plans in each functional area
(para. 5.5). Terms of reference for these services have been agreed with each
corporation (para. 4.6).



- 31 -
Role of the Participating Financial Institutions
4.17      The proceeds of the proposed loan will be onlent through five PFIs,
consisting of four banks and one nonbank financial institution. The four
banks are the Bank of Communications (BOCOM) Shanghai, China Investment Bank
(CIB), Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), and People's Construc-
tion Bank of China (PCBC). The nonbank PFI is the Shanghai Investment and
Trust Corporation (SITCO), a Shanghai-based financial institution. The PFIs
would be responsible for the normal functions performed by financial interme-
diaries. These include independent appraisal and supervision of the subproj-
ects, evaluation of the borrowers' creditworthiness, coordination of procure-
ment and other project implementation arrangements, disbursement of loan
proceeds, and recovery of debt service obligations. In addition to onlending
Bank funds in foreign exchange, the PFIs would also provide local currency
loans to finance capital costs denominated in local currency and incremental
working capital requirements of the borrowing corporations.
4.18      Bank loans for industry in China using financial intermediaries have
so far been onlent primarily through CIB (para. 2.15). An important step for
the Bank in the financial sector in China is to esthblish relationships with
other key financial institutions. This would ailow the Bank to understand
better and assist in the evolution of financial institutions in China. The
proposed project would further this process by including BOCOM, ICBC, PCBC and
SITCO as financial intermediaries for the first time under a Bank project.
This project also would strengthen the capability of these PFIs to appraise
and manage medium and long-term loans. It would support moves to increase the
number of qualified financial institutions in the area of long-term lending, a
field hitherto dominated by PCBC and CIB (which is closely affiliated with
PCBC).
4.19      Responsibility for project implementation would rest with the
Shanghai branches of the four banks and SITCO. which is based in Shanghai.
The bank branches would be able to approve subprojects independently under the
proposed Bank project, without having to seek further approval from their head
offices. Each of these five institutions is considered to be capable of car-
rying out the project appraisal, implementation, and supervision tasks
required under the proposed project. However, to strengthen their skills
further, staff from the PFIs are attending preproject training courses. These
courses cover project appraisal methodology as recommended by the Bank, and
acquaint the PFIs with Bank procedures on procurement, disbursement, and
reporting. Each institution would lend to a specific subsector, and would
therefore be able to develop expertise on the issues and risks faced by that
sector during the restructuring process. The financial condition and perfor-
mance of these institutions have been assessed by Bank staff, and judged to be
satisfactory.  A summary description of each PFI, its operations, financial
condition, and performance is provided in the following paragraphs. More
detail on each PFI's operations Ss presented in Annexes 11 through 15.
4.20      Bank of Communications.  BOCOM is a universal bank with its head-
quarters in Shanghai. Established in 1908 in Beijing, the bank was reconsti-
tuted in 1986, at which time its headquarters were moved from Beijing to
Shanghai. As of December 1988, BOCOM had 8 branches and 24 subbranches in
China employing about 5,000 staff, plus a large Hong Kong branch. BOCOM's



- 32 -
total assets, including the Fong Kong branch, were Y 42 billion at the end of
1987.
4.21      The Shanghai branch of BOCOM, an independent legal entity, has grown
rapidly since it commenced its operations in 1986.  A. the end of 1988, total
assets of the branch were Y 4.1 billion, with Y 1.0 billion in medium-term
loans. The branch has aggressively recruited qualified staff from other
institutions, and its medium-term lending operations are handled by about 20
staff members. The branch's pretax return on average assets in 1988 was high
at 4.0 percent. Capitalization was strong as of end-1988, with net worth
being 19 percent of assets. Arrears on principal payments were about 3.5 per-
cent of outstanding loans as of September 1988, and all the arrears were less
than 60 days overdue.
4.22      China Investment Bank.  CIB commenced its operations in 1981 as a
development finance institution. While CIB is administratively under the
leadership and supervision of MOF, it remains closely tied with PCBC. Its
primary focus is financing the technical transformation needs (i.e., fixed
asset investments involving modernization or rehabilitation) of small- and
medium-sized projects, particularly in the light industry sector. CIB had
total assets of Y 6.7 billion as of end-1988, with 56 branches and subbranches
employing about 1,000 staff. The Bank Group's involvement with CIB has been
extensive (see para. 2.15).
4.23      Between 1985 and 1989, CIB's Shanghai branch approved 63 loans
totaling about Y 370 million equivalent, mainly in foreign exchange.  Of the
loans made, only two have been rescheduled during the last five years of oper-
ation, and the branch reported no arrears a, of December 1989. The branch
showed a pretax return on average assets of 3.8 percent for 1989.  It has 14
professionals in charge of appraisal and supervision activities, and these
staff are well trained in project appraisal methodology satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.24      Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.  ICBC accounts for about
half of the deposits and loans of the entire banking system in China. It was
established in 1984 as a spin-off from the People's Bank of China (the central
bank). Today, 1CBC provides most of the short-term loans received by indus-
trial and commercial enterprises in urban areas, and has a large share of
urban savings deposits as well. The bank had total assets of Y 562 billion at
the end of 1988. and a network of about 24,000 branches and subbranches
employing 440,000 staff.
4.25      At the end of 1989, ICBC's Shanghai branch had total assets of Y 38
billion and a staff of about 14,000. The branch's financial performance has
been good, with a pretax return on average assets of 2.3 percent in 1989.
Although most of its loans are for short maturities, the branch has a large
portfolio of medium-term loaas for technical transformation purposes. Between
1985 and 1989, the branch financed 1,788 of these projects, with cumulative
commitments of over Y 6.7 billion. The branch has a special credit unit
responsible for technical transformation loans. This unit has a staff of 17,
most of whom are financial analysts and economists. The unit handling techni-
cal transformation loans reported arrears of less than 1 percent of the port-
folio as of December 1989; loans affected by arrears were estimated to be
2.6 percent of the portfolio.



- 33 -
4.26      People's Construction Bank of China.  PCBC was established in 1953
and is the primary bank in China for the financing of medium- and large-sized
fixed investment projects. At the end of 1988 the bank was responsible for
total assets of Y 342 billion, consisting of Y 165 billion of its own assets
and Y 177 billion of projects managed for the government's fixed investment
budget. The bank has a nationwide network of more than 3,000 branches, sub-
branches and savings deposit offices, with a total staff of approximately
100,000. PCBC's primary business lines remain project financing and lending
to constructicn enterprises, but the bank is expanding its range of operations
considerably. The Bank is currently preparing a Financial Institutions Devel-
opment Project, a component of which is expected to assist PCBC to achieve its
institutional development objectives.
4.27      At the end of 1989, PCBC's Shanghai branch employed 3,000 staff, had
total assets of Y 14.4 billion, and managed government investments of Y 14.8
billion. Between 1985 and September 1989, the branch approved Y 6.9 billion
in loans. About three-quarters of its lending is devoted to medium- and long-
term project finance; the remainder comprises working capital loans. Its
staff already is familiar with Bank project analysis procedures, since about
half the management staff in Shanghai have attended courses sponsored by the
Bank. The financial performance of the branch has been good, with a pretax
return on average assets of 2.3 percent in 1989. The branch's overdue princi-
pal amounted to 0.7 percent of its outstanding loan portfolio as of December
1989.
4.28      Shanghai Investment and Trust Company.  SITCO was established by the
Shanghai Municipal Government as a nonbank financial institution in 1981.
Today SITCO and its subsidiaries offer a wide range of corporate financial
services, including loan and equity financing. Between 1984 and 1988 SITCO
approved over 200 loans totaling $1.5 billion equivalent in foreign currency
and Y 1.1 billion in local currency. Almost all of this lending has financed
technical transformation projects. SITCO has 30 staff members responsible for
project appraisal and supervision. Its total staff of 408 is well qualified,
as both in-house and overseas training are emphasized. SITCO's pretax return
on average assets was 2.3 percent in 1989. SITCO is strongly capitalized,
with a capital-to-assets ratio of 18 percent at the end of 1989. Apart from
rescheduling three loans totaling $25 million, SITCO reports no overdue prin-
cipal or interest payments since it started its lending operations in 1986.
F. Environmental Impact
4.29      While Shanghai has major problems of environmental pollution, the
project subsectors are not major contributors to Shanghai's environmental
problems. It should be noted, in particular, that the electronic components
subsector included in the project consists only of the manufacture of passive
components; it does not include semiconductor manufacturing plants which are
known to be the major contributors to fluorocarbon pollution within the elec-
tronics industry. However, there are some environmental issues in the project
subsectors, such as the use of electroplating and disposal of acids and
wastes. These would be addressed in the project through the arrangements
summarized below.
4.30      The Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) has confirmed
that all the subsector enterprises involved in the project must comply with



- 34 -
its guidelines. SEPB would approve their renovation and expansion plans and
would periodically monitor their compliance. Moreover, as part of the invest-
ment approval process in Shanghai, SEPB would routinely be involved in approv-
ing all feasibility reports for subprojects under the loan, i.e., clearance by
SEPB is required before any subproject can be financed by the PFIs. In par-
ticular, SEPB would require that all subprojects in the subsectors to be
financed under the Bank operation include adequate expenditure for controlling
environmental pollution. For each feasibility report, SEPB would review the
environmental provisions to ensure that they meet China's environmental stan-
dards, which are adequate for the project subsectors. It would also ensure
that the subproject's sponsoring factory is in compliance with those stan-
dards.
4.31      Bank staff have determined that SEPB has the capability and staffing
to monitor the environmental aspects of the project effectively. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that the PFIs will not approve any subproj-
ect for financing until: (a) the subproject is approved by SEPB and meets
prevailing environmental guidelines; and (b) the existing operations of the
subproject's sponsor are in compliance with SEPB's environmental standards.
The approach to addressing the environmental issues in the project will be
complemented by the Bank's Shanghai Sewerage Project (Loan 2794-CHA and Credit
1779-CHA) which addresses industry-wide environmental issues in Shanghai. The
focus in that project has been to install sewer interceptor and collection
systems to reduce organic pollution loads into the most heavily polluted sec-
tion of the city draining into Suzhou Creek.



- 35 -
V. THE LOAN
A. Lending Arrangements and Terms
5.1       The People's Republic of China (PRC) will borrow the proposed Bank
loan of $150 million, and pass it on to SMG on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank. SMG will make available the loan proceeds to the PFIs under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with each. The initial allocation of the loan
proceeds among the PFIs is based on a proration of the estimated foreign cur-
rency costs of the project. This allocation is presented in Table 5.1 below.
This initial allocation is subject to change during project implementation.
Funds may be reallocated from one PFI to another subject to Bank approval,
depending on the progress made by each PFI in committing its allocated share
of the loan proceeds.
Table 5.1: INITIAL ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
AMONG THE PFIs
(S million)
PFI                                                 Amount
BOCOM                                                 22.0
CIB                                                   27.8
ICBC                                                  42.0
SITCO                                                 27.0
PCBC                                                  31.2
Total                                           150.0
5.2       The PFIs will onlend the Bank's funds to finance eligible subproj-
ects in the four subsectors (para. 4.8). The Bank will sign a Loan Agreement
with the PRC, a Project Agreement with SMG, and a Financial Intermediaries
Project Agreement with the PFIs. Approval of the Loan Agreement by the PRC's
State Council and signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to
the Bank will be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
5.3       SMG will lend the funds to the PFIs on the same terms as the Bank's
loan to the PRC. These terms include a 20-year maturity, with five years'
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. For loans made by PFIs,
the maximum maturity would be 12 years, including a grace period of up to
three years. The PFIs would charge their borrowers an interest rate equal to
the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus at least 1.25 percent. The
PFIs' spread is considered adequate to cover their administrative costs, risks
and a reasonable profit margin. The PFIs would handle the foreign exchange
risk of the Bank's currency pool in one of two ways: (a) they would pass on
to their borrowers the entire foreign exchange risk of the Bank's currency
pool, or (b) the PFIs would pass on most of the foreign exchange risk through
a scheme where they would lend in a three-currency basket (US Dollar, Japanese
Yen and German Deutsche Mark), in order to improve the transparency and pre-



- 36 -
dictability of the final borrower's nominal debt service payments. This bas-
ket would very closely track the Bank's new targeted currency pool; hence the
residual foreign exchange risk to the PFIs under this scheme would be small
and could be covered by charging their borrowers an appropriate premium. The
PFIs intend to consider this second option only for subloans made with roll-
over funds (i.e., funds arising from repayments on the initial set of subloans
made by the PFIs).
5.4       The PFIs would lend Bank funds for either "investment' subloans or
"technical assistance" subloans. Investment subloans would fund goods,
related services and technology transfer for subprojects to be appraised by
the PFIs. The free limit for investment subloans will be $3 million. In
addition, each PFI's first two investment subloans below the free limit would
be submitted to the Bank for approval. The maximum subloan size will be $20
million. Any subloan above this amount will be subject to approval by the
Bank on an exceptional basis only, and Bank staff may directly participate in
appraisal of the subproject, together with PFI staff. Based on the current
investment pipeline, however, no subloans above $20 million are expected.
Technical assistance subloans will finance all consultants' services, computer
equipment and training that are not tied to specific investment subprojects
(para. 4.5). All technical assistance subloans will be presented to the Bank
for approval. The last date for submission o.' all subloan applications will
be December 31, 1993. The expected project completion date is December 31,
1995, and the closing date of the loan will be June 30, 1996. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from PRC, SMG and the PFIs on the above lend-
ing arrangements and terms.
B. Procurement
5.5       For goods and related services, individual contracts over $1 million
will be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) is carried out
according to Bank procurement guidelines. Only two or chree contracts are
expected to exceed $1 million. Local bidders would be granted the standard
margin of preference, equal to customs duties and other import taxes, or
15 percent of c.i.f. cost, whichever is lower. Contracts below $1 million
would be awarded after a comparison is made of quotations solicited from at
least three qualified suppliers from different countries. Items of a prop::i-
etary nature or spare parts may be procured through direct contracting. Since
only a few contracts are likely to go out for ICB, no procurement table is
given. Consultants' services during project implementation would be obtained
in accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines and financed out of loan
proceeds. The Bank has approved SMG's request for direct negotiations between
the subsector corporations and the consultants used in developing the subsec-
tor strategies and development programs because the consultants have helped
design the strategies to be implemented during execution of the project and
are competent to undertake the task. In addition, local consultants may be
contracted separately for some of the tasks covered in the TORs. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that each corporation would engage all the
necessary consultants to carry out the work described in the terms of refer-
ence (Annex 7) prior to loan effectiveness. Technology transfer, overseas
training, and study tours would be subject to approval by the Bank. The
Bank's standard prior review and approval procedures (from bidding documents
through contract award) will be applied to all ICB contracts. All other con-
tracts may be subject to post-review by the Bank, and the PFIs are to maintain



- 37 -
all the relevant documents for this review. The PFIs will be responsible for
supervising procurement by subborrowers.
C. Disbursement
5.6       Disbursement of the loan proceeds will be allowed as follows:
(a) for investment subloans, 100 percent of amounts disbursed by a PFI for
foreign expenditures and for local ex-factory expenditures; (b) for goods
under technical assistance subloans, 100 percent of foreign expenditures,
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for goods bought directly
from the manufacturer and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; and (c) for consultants' services and training under techni-
cal assistance subloans, 100 percent of expenditures. Disbursements for
training and study tours and for contracts of less than $200,000 each will be
made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE). In the latter case, full docu-
mentation will be held by the PFIs for rev.ew by Bank supervision missions.
Each PFI will provide a monthly SOE to the Bank, with a copy to be kept by the
PMU.
5.7       To facilitate disbursement of project funds, Special Accounts will
be established on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A separate
Special Account will be established for each PFI. The Bank will make a maxi-
mum initial deposit in each PFI's Special Account as follows: $1.2 million
for BOCOM, $1.5 million for CIB, $1.7 million for PCBC, $2.3 million for ICBC,
and $1.5 million for SITCO. These amounts represent the estimated four-month
average of project expenditures to be withdrawn by each PFI from the Special
Account. Applications for replenishment will be submitted monthly, or when
the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50 percent of the initial deposit, which-
ever occurs first. Disbursements under the project are expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1996. The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in
Annex 16. It is based on the disbursement profiles of loans through financial
intermediaries and other industrial loans in China, as well as the Bank's
experience with industrial restructuring projects in other countries.
5.8       Eligible expenditures incurred after March 15, 1989, up to a maximum
of $5 million will be eligible for financing on a retroactive basis. The
majority of such expenditures will be for financing initial payments for
transfer of technology, the consultants' services that are immediately needed
to prepare for project implementation and for travel abroad to acquire foreign
technology.
D. Reporting and Auditing
5.9       Shanghai Municipal Government.  SMG established a PMU, which will
become fully operational under the project (see para. 4.13). One of the
responsibilities of the PMU will be to monitor project implementation and
forward to the Bank regular progress reports on the project and audited proj-
ect accounts. The format and frequency of these progress reports were agreed
at negotiations (Annex 17). The PMU, with the assistance of the PFIs, will
also prepare a project completion report within six months after disbursement
of the loan proceeds is completed.
5.10      Participating Financial Institutions.  Each year the PFIs will pro-
vide the following reports to the Bank, through the PMU:  (a) statements of



- 38 -
loan collection ratios on Bank subloans; (b) audit reports of the accounts of
the Shanghai branches of the four banks and of SITCO; and (c) audit reports of
project accounts, including Special Accounts and SOEs. The accounts of SITCO
and the Shanghai branches of the four banks would include an Income Statement
and a Balance Sheet, with these financial statements accompanied by appropri-
ate supporting schedules and explanatory notes. In particular, (a) the Income
Statement would incorporate, or be accompanied by, a Statement of Allocation
of Profits that would record the distribution of profits, and (b) the Balance
Sheet would be accompanied by a Statement of Changes in Net Worth that would
detail the reasons for the changes in net worth (capital and retained earn-
ings) from one period to the next. The audit reports of the accounts of the
PFIs would be carried out by auditors acceptable to the Bank. All audited
accounts and statements will be provided to the Bank within six months after
the end of each institution's financial ye-.r beginning with the financial year
ending 1990. The PFIs will also provide the Bank, through the PMU, quarterly
reports on commitment, disbursement and procurement under each subloan.
E. Benefits and Risks
5.11      Organizational and technological restructuring and policy reforms
will result in greater efficiency and competitiveness in the four subsectors
under the project. The strategies that have been agreed with SMG are designed
to improve product quality and exports. The subproject selection criteria
will ensure that investments under the project are financially and economic-
ally viable and are consistent with SMG's strategy for each subsector.
5.12      The main project risks pertain to:  (a) the implementation of the
enterprise and policy reforms that are to be carried out at the subsector
level, and (b) the timely implementation of the project. However, SMG is
strongly committed to the needed reforms (para. 3.37), as reflected in the
statement of their intentions (Annex 2). In addition, agreement has been
reached on a framework for periodic reviews, and consultations with the Bank,
on the subsector policy environment (para. 4.14). Regarding the second risk,
specific agreements have been reached on arrangements for project implementa-
tion, including training prior to the project, establishment of the PMU,
implementation arrangements at the subsector corporations, and engaging con-
sultants to provide management assistance to support project implementation.



- 39 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were received on the following con-
ditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)  State Council to approve the Loan Agreement (para. 5.2);
(b)  The Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) and the PFIs to sign Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.2); and
(c)  All subsector corporations to engage the necessary consultants
(para. 5.5).
6.2       Assurances also were received from the PRC, SMG, and PFIs on the
following:
(a) PRC to: make loan proceeds available to SMG on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.1);
(b) SMG to:
(i)  maintain a Project Monitoring Unit throughout project implemen-
tation with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank and with competent staff in adequate numbers to coordinate
and monitor overall implementation of the project (para. 4.13);
(ii) maintain a Steering Committee that would guide the work of the
PMU, and annually: prepare and furnish to the Bank by April 15
of each year an assessment of policy and enterprise reforms in
the project subsectors and exchange views on these assessments
with the Bank (para. 4.14);
(iii) ensure that financial consolidation of the new integrated cor-
porations is carried out within 9 months of charter issuance
(para. 4.15);
(iv) ensure the availability of funds for the implementation of the
project (para. 4.11);
(v)  ensure that overseas training under technical assistance sub-
projects shall be carried out in accordance with annual pro-
grams acceptable to the Bank and provide to the Bank for con-
currence, by September 30 in each year, the proposed training
program for the following year (para. 4.5); and,
(vi) meet reporting and auditing requirements (paras. 5.9 and 5.10).
(c)  Each PFI to:
(i)  onlend to subborrowers on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 5.3);



- 40 -
(ii) ensure that all subprojects to be financed under project meet
the agreed eligibility criteria (para. 4.8);
(iii) seek Bank approval of the first two investment subloans below
the free limit and all technical assistance subloans
(para. 5.4).
(iv) meet reporting and auditing requirements (paras. 5.9 and 5.10);
and
(v) be allowed to use the proceeds of the loan for this project to
finance subprojects in other industrial subsectors as agreed
betwee,. the Bank and SMG on the basis of agreed development
strategies to be prepared by the municipality (para. 4.10).
6.3       During negotiations, understandings were reached on appropriate
transition periods for the subsector corporations (para. 3.39). In addition,
SMG's official statement of its develupment program and strategy for the
project subsectors was received during negoti&- ions and found acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.36).
6.4       With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $150 million, repayable over 20 years including
five years' grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, to be made to
the People's Republic of China.



ANNEX 1
- 4.1 -
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Development Strategy and Policies
for Shanghai's Industrial Sector 1/
Strategy for Structural Change
1.        The central government aims to transform Shanghai into one of the
largest economic centers on the west coast of the Pacific over the long term.
Shanghai intends to specialize in the fields of industrial production for
which it is best suited, in the context of an industrial sector that is trade-
oriented and based on advanced science and technology. Shanghai's industrial
development priorities are to: take advantage of China's opening to foreign
markets by developing manufactured exports and increasing the value-added of
those exports; phase out manufacturing activities that require large amounts
of energy, raw materials, and land, and those that cause excessive environmen-
tal damage, in favor of industries and services more suitable to Shanghai's
resource endowments; improve the technological level of Shanghai's industry;
build appropriate supporting infrastructu:e for modern industry; and
strengthen support services for industry. Shanghai's industry will have to
introduce, update and adapt technology, accelerate product innovation,
restructure and rehabilitate some enterprises, introduce new activities, and
reach international standards in more product groups. This strategy for
structural change is consistent with the priorities adopted by the central
government at the outset of the stabilization program, and therefore has not
been altered as a result of that program.
2.        SMG is giving priority to three categories of industry.  The first
of these is consumer goods and light industry. Here there are two aims: to
increase exports, it will be necessary to improve product quality, modernize
techniques of production, and reorganize enterprises and subsectors to raise
efficiency and lower costs; and for the domestic market, it is intended to
enlarge the range cf goods produced, and develop the higher quality goods
being demanded in China. The second priority category is heavy industrial
equipment and machinery. The aims for this area are to increase research and
development efforts, standardize the electrical and mechanical industries,
integrate electronic and mechanical products, and increase exports in these
categories. The third category is raw materials for heavy industry where the
aims are to make better use of the output of existing complexes, develop down-
stream processing and moderately increase the prod4ction of some other mate-
rial inputs required for the priority subsectors.
3.        In addition, efforts will be made to acquire, produce or adapt
advanced technology in such areas as microelectronics, optical fiber communi-
1/   The document was prepared by Bank staff based on extensive discussions of
Shanghai's industrial strategy and policies, with all key agencies
involved.



- 42 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
cations, bioengineering and new materials.  The first goal would be to learn
how to apply techniques from these areas to traditional subsectors. For exam-
ple, the combination of electronics and machinery technologies could improve
production efficiency and product design capability in many existing enter-
prises throughout the industrial sector.
4.        In conjunction with these industrial priorities, expansion of
related services and infrastructure is important. Shanghai has a large popu-
lation concentrated in and around the city and an intensive industrial base,
as well as being an important commercial center. It needs pre- and post-
production services, domestic and foreign trade services, tourism, finance,
insurance, consulting and information services, postal services, telecommuni-
cations, most types of transport, and real estate. The shortage of adequate
infrastructure and support services for industry has been a significant con-
straint on Shanghai's industrial development, but the SMG has begun to address
this problem. Shanghai has emerging opportunities to provide such services
for industry in other parts of China.
Industrial Policies
5.        Prior to the introduction of the national stabilization program in
1989, Shanghai had become a major site for the experimental introduction of
reformed industrial policies, particularly in the areas of enterprise autonomy
and foreign investment. The goal of these reforms was to gradually strengthen
incentives for competitive behavior by industrial enterprises and shift to
indirect market controls. While some caution was evident during the initial
stages of the austerity program introduced in 1989, major policy changes
introduced earlier have not been reversed, and in some areas that are impor-
tant for the improvement of enterprise efficiency, further measures have been
taken. In particular, the implementation of policies rblated to the restruc-
turing, and improved competitiveness in international markets, of the four
SIDP subsectors, remain a commitment of SMG and the industrial bureaus for the
subsectors. These measures are setving as examples for the municipality's
industrial sector.
Enterprise Reform
6.        Consistent with national reform priorities and progress, enterprise
refo-m has become a major area of system reform in Shanghai. The aim of this
refo. has been to revitalize the state-owned sector by granting enterprises
greater managerial autonomy, separating ownership (of the whole people) from
management, making enterprises responsible for their profits and losses,
improving the business environment (especially by reducing government inter-
ference in routine enterprise affairs), promoting "horizontal cooperation"
among enterprises, and introducing the notion of sector management. These
efforts have been buttressed by a variety of other reform measures such as
those effective in the area of labor, investment, planning and the material
allocation system.
7.        Amon, the specific enterprise reform measures in Shanghai between
1986 and 1988 was the abolition of the administrative corporations that formed
an intermediate level of control between the industrial bureaus and the enter-
prises. Although many such "companies" resurfaced as subsector corporations,



- 43 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 3
the reformed legal entities are independent accounting units without, in prin-
ciple, administrative means for controlling the enterprises. Instead they
provide a variety of corporate services, such as sales and marketing, the
payments for which are their primary source of income. In addition, many
corporations are responsible for coordinating subsector production, but their
authority over the individual enterprises, which are also independent legal
accounting entities, has been limited. The resulting ambiguity meant that it
has been difficult to comprehensively rationalize production processes and
product lines within subsectors. This weakness is being addressed in SIDP
through the formation of integrated enterprises, which is already underway.
The integrated enterprises are now financially consolidated single legal enti-
ties within which resources are becoming mobile.
8.        An important instrument now being used in Shanghai to separate own-
ership and management is the contract rebponsibility system (CRS). Since mid-
1987, 98 percent of the roughly 1,700 large- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Economic Commission have
come under CRS, as have an additional 700 commercial er.terprises.  Leasing,
which is increasingly being used in other parts of China, has not been wide-
spread in Shanghai.  Only a few industrial enterprises, and less than 10 per-
cent of commercial enterprises, have been leased.
9.        The unclear ownership of state enterprises in China is arguably the
most pressing problem facing the enterprise reform program. As an attempt to
address this issue, the central government established the National Adminis-
trative Bureau of State-Owned Property (NABSOP) in July 1988. Shanghai has
established a parallel Department under the Municipal Finance Bureau for the
same purpose. The Department is studying asset valuation and asset transfer,
as well as the definition of the ownership function for state-owned enter-
prises, and will issue policies in these fields.
10.       One of the diffictulties exacerbated by unclear ownership of state
assets conrerns the transfer of assets and property rights such as through
mergers and acquisitions of enterprises or their parts. Such adjustment mech-
anisms are necessary for the reorganization and rationalization of industrial
structure. Prior to 1990, there had been a few cases of mergers in Shanghai,
but these mainly involved collective enterprises or were structured as manage-
ment contracts. In recognition of the importance of further improvement in
this area, SMG is initiating an experiment with enterprise groups. This
involves the merging of state-owned enterprises producing similar or r4lated
products, or using the same sort of equipment, in order to facilitate their
reaching an economic scale of production. In addition, to bring integrated
financial strength into play, the larger company resulting from the merger
would be allowed to own portions of other related companies to form an enter-
prise group. In that case, the portion not owned by the state-owned enter-
prise could be owned by collectives or other enterprises. Plans to apply this
experiment in about 20 subsectors are being formulated, with four or five
groups to be established late in 1990. In addition, integrated enterprises
along the lines of those in the four SIDP subsectors are being established in
several more subsectors, in particular in the electrical and mechanical indus-
tries.



- 44 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       The Shanghai Office of Economic System Reform is also studying the
possible wider application of the joint-stock system. So far, Shanghai has
proceeded cautiously with experiments with joint stock companies. Presently
there are only 11 enterprises that have issued stock. However, most of the
shares are owned by the state, other enterprises and workers in the enter-
prise, and are not widely traded.
12.       On several of these enterprise reform issues, a study will be done
in conjunction with SIDP. The study will be managed by the Shanghai Planning
Economic Research Institute (SPERI) and carried out by an interagency team
headed by SPERI and the Research Association of the Shanghai Office of Eco-
nomic System Reform.
Investment Regulation
13.       Authority on many investment decisions has been delegated from the
central goverrnment to SMG and Shanghai industrial bureaus. The current rules
fall into three categories: (a) for foreign joint venture investments, up to
$5 million requires only district or county government approval, and larger
amounts require SMG approval; (b) for domestic enterprises, all new capital
construction projects, regardless of size, Liust have SMG approval; and
(c) technical renovation projects (those involving some demolition ard
replacement of production facilities, but not a whole new plant) or Liachinery
imports must have the approval of the relevant industrial bureau for amounts
up to Y 3 million for light industry and up to Y 5 million for heavy industry,
and SMG approval up to Y 30 million. For all types of domestic enterprise
investments, amounts over Y 30 million require central government approval.
Enterprises can spend on technical renovation up to Y 50,000 (or Y 100,000 in
some cases) without external approval provided they have sufficient retained
earnings to cover the outlay and require little or no new bank credit for the
project. For larger technical renovation projects, even if the enterprise has
adequate retained funds to cover the full cost, industrial bureau approval
must be sought. In all cases, approval is more difficult to obt&in for
investment spending not anticipated in previcusly agreed long-term plans or
contracts.
14.       In concert with the general tightening of investment controls in
China under the stabilization program, some retrenchment in the liberalization
of investment controls occurred; however, these and other limits have not been
changed in the past year and further relaxation is expected now that macrosta-
bilization has been largely achieved. New central government regulations do
restrict the expansion of industrial activities that create large amounts of
pollution, or are judged excessively intensive in energy and raw material use,
and require review of proposals in these fields by several government agencies
at the level of government with approval authority for the investment pro-
posed. In addition, project proposals for new small factories, in product
groups for which economies of scale are important, are being reviewed by sev-
eral levels of government, including the central government.
Price Policies
15.       Although general guidelines for pricing policies in China are set by
the central government, few specific product prices are set centrally. These



- 45 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 5
are typically the prices of standard products and commodities used throughout
the country. Products with a smaller market range have prices or instructions
for pricing issued by the municipal government. The Shanghai Price Bureau has
delegated pricing for many products to the enterprises, but retained the prac-
tice of monitoring them regularly. Often the Price Bureau sets a guideline
price for a basic product, and allows enterprises to set their price for simi-
lar products within a prescribed range of guideline price. For example, for
heavy industrial products, prices must be wlthin 20 percent of the guideline,
and for electrical and mechanical intermediate goods, the range is typically
15-20 percent. For output beyond planned production targets, enterprises set
their prices, subject to review by the Shanghai Price Bureau (or a central
government bureau if the product is under central jurisdiction).
16.       Regardless of the authority required, prices usually are set to
cover costs, which is a disincentive to greater efficiency and cost savings.
SMG has stated that it intends in the medium run to continue gradually freeing
prices within its jurisdiction from administrative control as competition
strengthens; however, in 1989 this process was temporarily slowed as a conse-
quence of the continuing efforts to reduce inflation. Price increases have
been recently authorized for some enterprises suffering financial losses as a
result of input prices having risen more steeply than output prices during
1989 and early 1990. Most products within plan targets for output volume
continue to be free to fluctuate within prescribed ranges. Enterprises still
have the freedom to set market prices for new products involving technologi-
cal, quality or design improvements, although these prices are reviewed by the
Shanghai Price Bureau (or a central government bureau if the product is under
central jurisdiction).
Trade Policy
17.       Foreign trade reform began in Shanghai in 1979, as part of China's
policy of opening to the outside world. A general thrust of this reform has
been the separation of the functions of government and enterprises and greater
delegation of autfority to the enterprises. A single municipal trade depart-
ment, the Shanghai Foreign Economic Relations and Trade Commission (SFERTC)
was consolidated in 1984. It administers foreign trade through macroeconomic
policies, coordination of import and export plans, approval of import and
export licenses on behalf of the .Ainistry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade (NOFERT), and approval and allocation of import quotas.
18.       The number of channels for foreign trade has been increased.  The
first foreign trade corporations (FTCs) were established in 1980 for groups of
industrial enterprises. Some national trading companies established special-
ized local branches. Several forms of foreign trade organization have been
established, to encourage integration between industry, technology development
and trade, as well as direct contact between foreign buyers and industrial
enterprises. There are now 20 branches of national FTCs in Shanghai, and 115
other entities with foreign trade rights. The latter group includes FTCs run
by Shanghai's industrial or science and technology departments, eight large
enterprises with direct trading rights, joint ventures between FTCs and enter-
prises, and two trading companies. Shanghai has established 20 export agency
offices in major overseas markets to promote sales there. In addition, various



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
specialized companies were established for advertising, export inspection,
insurance, freight, transport, and other services.
19.       The agency system, which is used for almost all imports, is being
applied to exports as well.  Until mid-1988, most industrial exports from
Shanghai were handled by trading companies purchasing goods from the enter-
prises and then selling them abroad on their own account. Under the agency
system, the trading company handles the settlement and may facilitate the sale
for a fee, but the enterprise is allowed contact with final customers and
export market conditions. By the end of 1989, approximately one-third of
Shanghai's industrial exporters had been shifted to the agency system. This
number includes most textile- and garment-export enterprises, as well as some
enterprises that export mechanical and other products. The results of this
change have been encouraging, and the wider application of the agency system
was undertaken in 1990. In addition, the number of firms with direct import
and export rights was targeted to double from 50 to 100 during 1990.
20.       During the last few years, several export incentives have been
introduced: allowing enterprises greater retention of foreign exchange earn-
ings; rewarding enterprises that fulfill their export quotas; and inst.tuting
incentive payments of Y 0.02 per dollar of exports under the mandatory plan
and Y 0.30 for above-plan exports. The directors of FTCs have been given
greater responsibility, and their staffs and management receive bonuses
related to export earnings. The devaluations of 1989 and November 1990 have
also helped in this regard.
21.       Shanghai is considering making further trade policy changes in at
least three areas: (a) granting greater direct import rights for exporting
enterprises within the municipality to ensure the availability of suitable
materials and semifinished products; (b) approving direct export rights for
more large- and medium-sizvd firms; and (c) improving export incentives and
their administration. Two important incentives are allowing firms the use of
larger portion of their foreign exchange earnings, and enabling them to buy
and sell foreign exchange at market rates.
_4nancial Intermediation
22.       Central and municipal government measures have increased the range
of financial instruments and number of financial institutions in Shanghai.
The Bank of Communications was reestablished with its headquarters in
Shanghai. This has increased the competition between Shanghai's financial
institutions, which could contribute to better services for industrial borrow-
ers. Shanghai now has a small primary securities market. An interbank money
market was recently introduced. Two foreign exchange adjustment centers on
which certain enterprises may trade at free market rates were established in
1987. Consideratio- is being given to expanding the scope and depth of these
markets; improved means of supervising and regulating them are being studied.
Foreign Investment
23.       The Shanghai Municipal Government is actively encouraging foreign
investment as a means of bringing in sophisticated technology, gaining access
to export niarkets, and developing local supplier industries. In June 1988,



ANNFX 1
Page 7
the Shanghai Foreign Investment Commission (SFIC) was established to serve as
the single municipal government office that a foreign company needs to contact
in order to set up and run a business in Shanghai. In 1990, SFIC was brought
into SFERTC to strengthen SFIC's authority of other parts of the municipal
government. The SFIC approves foreign investment projects with total invest-
ment of between $5 million and $30 million, as well as projects in the
"restricted" category under $5 million, Most projects under that limit are
now approved by district and county-level government. The SFIC provides for-
eign investors with administrative services and advice about the industrial
policies, laws and regulations affecting them in Shanghai, and helps them
during project preparation and implementation. Within Shanghai Municipality,
some industrial parks have already been established to provide foreign inves-
tors with appropriate infrastructure for their factories. In such parks, SMG
has initiated the long-term leasing of land to foreign firms on a trial basis.
A large new industrial zone is under development in the Pudong district.
Infrastructure and services are being designed to attract foreign investment,
and SMG has begun active promotion abroad for the scheme.
Technology Policy
24.       Shanghai has drawn up a Science and Technology Development Plan for
industry. This plan sets objectives for the renovation of traditional indus-
try and new industrial development. According to this plan, projects funded
by the Science and Technology Commission will ie divided into two categories:
basic theoretical study and development of applied technology. The latter
projects are now decided by the Economic and Science and Technology Commis-
sions jointly according to their likely industrial usefulness and economic
benefits. Research institutes receive rewards once technology they have
developed is used by an enterprise, and may sell technology. They may also
receive development funds from enterprises. For certain key projects, the
government will give low interest loans to support research in both the insti-
tutes and enterprises. Funds availab'e for science and technology with indus-
trial applications are being concentrated in priority subsectors. The Science
and Technology Commission recently established a department of new technology
diffusion to help transfer technology from research institutes to enterprises,
by setting up meetings and exhibitions, and providing specialized library,
data bank and information exchange services.
25.       With the exception of some large units, enterprises have not been
able to do adequate research and development themselves dup to shortages of
funds and personnel. To address these problems, under the contract system,
firms may now negotiate that 1 percent to 2 percent of sales be retained for
research and development purposes. Enterprises may hire some university and
research institute personnel as consultants, or make contractual arrangements
for joint research. The SMG will expand these arrangements to encourage prod-
uct and technology development in Shanghai's enterprises.
Location Policy
26.       Many enterprises in Shanghai are crowfded in old buildings in con-
gested parts of the city. This has several disadvantages. It makes it diffi-
cult for raw materials to be transported to the factories, and for the
finished goods to be shipped out. Expanding or modernizing manufacturing



- 48-                             ANNEX 1
Page 8
facilities, to include long assembly lines and a continuous flow of goods in
progress, is difficult, since several floors of the same building or even
several small buildings may house different stages of a production line. It
is also difficult to keep some buildings clean, due to their open construc-
tion, the air pollution from surrounding industry and traffic, or the large
number of industrial plants relying on the same source of water for production
needs or as a waste repository. Cleanliness is important for meeting interna-
tional quality standards in many modern industries, such as pharmaceuticals
and electronics. The densely industrialized parts of the city are unpleasant
and sometimes unhealthy for nearby residents.
27.       In recognition of these problems, the SMG is planning the location
of factories taking into account the restructuring and expansion of the physi-
cal facilities necessary for producing good quality products at competitive
prices, as well as the costs of providing appropriate space, transport access,
waste treatment, and other infrastructure in different locations. A zoning
system has been introduced for the city proper as well as surrounding counties
and satellite towns. Under this system, new enterprises will be authorized to
set up factories and other facilities only in zones designated for their type
of industrial activity. The movement of existing enterprises presents diffi-
culties, though, because the land market is limited and experimental, and
factories and workshops usually are moved in accordance with SMG's assignment
of new space. Also, employees cannot easily move to new locations. While the
employee of the relocating enterprise would be given a residence permit for
the new area, other working members of the family would not.
28.       The zoning system also designates areas where heavily polluting
firms may locate, but in tandem with this, SMG has a system of fines charged
to violators of the municipality's environmental code. However, the fines do
not appear to be high enough to enforce compliance. Moving polluting firms
may not resolve all the pollution problems if the new locations outside the
city are no better equipped to clean air and water or dispose of waste than is
the city.
Labor Mobility and Incentives
29.       The Shanghai government recognizes that restructuring the industrial
sector will involve redefining some jobs, teaching workers new skills, hiring
staff with different skills than those of current employees, moving employees
from firm to firm, and reducing the number of employees in some enterprises or
production lines. Several schemes have been introduced to facilitate this
adjustment. Employment contracts have been introduced and must be used for
all newly hired workers. The contracts last for one or several years and when
they expire neither the enterprise nor the worker is obliged to renew the
arrangement. Retraining programs have been established in some enterprises,
to teach workers how to use new techniques of production. For some senior and
skilled workers, industrial bureaus are organizing retreining. Since most
enterprises have gained responsibility for selling their output, they are
training some of their employees for sales jobs. Under the Labor Bureau's
guidance, enterprises are establishing job definitions and standards to
encourage evaluation of employees' performance and fairer competition for
positions.



- 49 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 9
30.       Until recently, the enterprises in Shanghai paid pensions to their
own workers upon their retirement. This placed a cost burden on older enter-
prises, which have a lower ratio of active to retired workers than new compe-
titors. In addition, workers were reluctant to move between firms since this
would result in loss of pension benefits. To address these problems, the
Shanghai Labor Bureau has established the Consolidated Retirement Pension
Funds (CRPF), which will pay the pensions of all retired industrial workers in
Shanghai. All enterprises are required to contribute an amount equal to
25.5 percent of employee salaries to the pension fund, and employee pensions
will be paid by the CRPF from 1989 onward.
31.       Another recently established organization under the Labor Bureau is
the Labor Services Company (LSC). The LSC pf lorms several functions that
contribute to labor mobility. It finds jobs for contract workers when their
contracts expire and helps recent graduates search for jobs. It also keeps a
registry of unemployed people seeking jobs, and pays some compensation to
those people who were released involuntarily from their enterprises until jobs
are found for them (or a maximum of two years). For peop._ who have worked
more than five years, unemployment compensation is 60-75 percent of the previ-
ous salary for the first year, and 50 percent for the second. For people with
less than five years work experience, unemployment compensation is 50 percent
of the previous salary for one year.



- 50 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statement of Shanghai Municipal Government on the
Development Program and Strategy for SIDP Subsectors _/
Introduction
1.        Shanghai Municipality, which has provincial status, is the spcond
largest province in China measured by industrial output value. However, in
spite of its strong industrial base, Shanghai is facing increasing competition
domestically while also being squeezed on the availability of raw materials
and energy and saddled with outmoded manufacturing technology, deteriorating
infrastructure and a scarcity of land for expansion. Even though it has lim-
ited raw materials, energy and land, Shanghai has a strong base of hurnan
resources and research and development compared with the rest of China.
2.        Important elements of Shanghai's industrial strategy are to:
(a) improve the organization and management of its industrial sector; and
(b) move into higher value-added activities and subsectors which are more
technology-intensive, and less polluting, and energy and raw material inten-
sive. One of the areas within Shanghai's industrial sector that is being
given priority under this strategy is industrial machinery and equipment. In
this field, the goals are to upgrade technology, improve production efficiency
and product quality in the electrical and mechanical industries through
greater product standardization, integrate electronic and mechanical products,
and increase exports. Four important subsectors in the field of industrial
machinery and equipment are electrical apparatus, electronic components, pre-
cision and scientific instruments, and printing machinery. These four subsec-
tors would be assisted by the proposed Shanghai Industrial Development Project
(SIDP).
3.        In connection with the SIDP, SMG is undertaking new initiatives for
enterprise reform, policy adjustments and industrial restructuring in the four
subsectors. These measures are intended to provide an appropriate industrial
structure and policy framework for the organizational, managerial and techni-
cal improvements to be implemented under SIDP. TIe goal of these improvements
is to raise e.ficiency, growth and competitivenes., consistent with Shanghai's
industrial development strategy. The measures and achievements in these four
subsectors will serve as examples for reforms elsewhere in the industrial
sector. This statement sets out SMG's intentions with respect to the enter-
prise reforms, policy changes, and strategies to be implemented under SIDP.
1/   This a translation of an official statement that was issued/adopted by
the Shanghai Municipal Planning Commission on May 16, 1989.



- 51 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
Enterprise Reforms
4.        Enterprise reforms are needed in the four subsectors to adjust their
structure and management mechanisms to the increasing competition they now
face. Each of the four subsectors is comprised of independent but subopti-
mally sized factories with many overlapping products and duplicate manufactur-
ing processes. The subsector corporations have limited control over the
enterprises in the subsector and are unable to rationalize product lines and
manufacturing processes. This rationalization is necessary to improve effi-
ciency, produce higher quality goods that match the demands of domestic and
foreign markets, and control the costs of production.
5.        To facilitate industrial restructuring and factory rationalization,
SMG will implement enterprise reforms in all four subsectots. An integrated
corporation will be legally established in each of the four subsectors. This
will be reflected in a legal charter for the integrated corporation that will
define its structure, composition, rights and obligations, and the means by
which these may be amended in the future.
6.        The integrated corporation. will be legal entities, responsible for
their own profits and losses. They will be financially consolidated, and
assume debt and tax obligations as single units. They will exercise certain
rights, including export and foreign exchange retention, as single units.
Within the corporation, all resources, including employees, materials and
equipment, may be reallocated between factories and divisions by the corpora-
tion's management to facilitate the needed rationalization of product lines
and manufacturing processes.
7.        Each integrated corporation will consist of some, but not all, of
the factories in the subsector as of January 1989, as well as the subsector
corporation of that date. Each integrated corporation will ini-ially include
only those factories and support services necessary for the efficient manufac-
ture of the priority product groups. Those formerly separate factories will
lose their status as independent legal entities after a transition period
during which the consolidation of the integrated corporations would be com-
pleted. The financial consolidation, and consolidation of contract responsi-
bility system agreements currently outstanding, will be implemented as soon as
possible.
8.        Although some factories within each subsector will not initially be
included in the integrated corporation, they will continue to operate indepen-
dently within the same bureau, and the integrated corporation would maintain
supply contracts with them. In each subsector, there are some factories, such
as foundries, which supply critical components to manufacturing processes in
the subsector. They will be included in the integrated corporation at this
stage, but may become independent of corporation later. Other factories may
be acquired by or merged with the integrated corporation in the future. The
decision to acquire or merge will be based on consideration of the technical
and economic efficiency of the factories to be merged and their impact on the
integrated corporation.
9.        The internal organization of each integrated corporation will
include a corporate headquarters, business divisions, and factories, as well



-52 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 3
as research institutes. The divisions and factories in each integrated corpo-
ration are listed in their charters. Each integrated corporation's headquar-
ters will be responsible for setting company-wide policy, implementing the
investment strategy, managing finances, developing exports, purchasing bulk
raw materials, managing research and development, and coordinating the busi-
ness divisions under it. Each integrated corporation will have several busi-
ness depending on need. The business divisions are based on product groups
with common technology and markets. Each business division will operate as a
profit center, responsible for product development, production, marketing and
sales. Each division will include one or more factories, which will be cost
centers as will the research institutes belonging to the integrated corpora-
tion.
Policy Adiustments
10.       Exports by the four subsectors should gradually move from the pur-
chase to the agency system, then to direct exports, following relevant state
rules. The integrated corporations will initially use the agency system for
exporting. Under the agency system, joint office of corporate staff and for-
eign trade company staff will be established. This arrangement will facili-
tate both the training of corporate trade staff and direct contact between the
corporation and overseas clients. For example, corporation staff would par-
ticipate directly in export transactions such as negotiations, quoting prices,
etc. The goal is to allow the integrated coroorations direct export rights
once they have built up trained staff and demonstrated their ability to take
responsibility for financial risks associated with exporting. Annual reviews
of each integrated corporation's progress will be carried out to review their
ability for direct export.
11.       Each integrated corporation will be allowed to use retained  foreign
exchange earnings to service its foreign debt and import critical raw materi-
als for its operation. In addition, the corporations will be allowed to buy
foreign exchange, as available at the Foreign Exchange Adjustment Centers
should their export earnings be inadequate to cover their debt service obliga-
tions and meet other needs. If they earn more foreign exchange than they
need, they should be able to decide on their own whether or not to make
advance repayments of subloans under the SIDP.
12.       The enterprise reforms and policy changes presented above will be
monitored closely during project implementation. SMG has established a
project monitoring unit (PMU) that will coordinate and monitor all SIDP-
related activities. The work of the PMU will be guided by a Steering Commit-
tee to be appointed by SMG. A study under the management of the Shanghai
Planning Economic Research Institute (SPERI) will monitor the impact of policy
change on the perforimance of the subsectors, in coordination with the Bank's
supervision of the project. These organizations will review regularly with
the Bank the implementation of enterprise reforms and policy changes. Owner-
ship and management functions should be separated. The industrial bureaus
and other SMG agencies would play a strategic role in the corporations, but
would not participate in their day-to-day management and operations. One such
mechanism is the board of directors, which could include representatives of
the government and have the responsibility to define corporate strategy.



- 53-                            ANNEX 2
Page 4
Product and Market Strategies
13.       Each integrated corporX 'on has adopted a focused product and market
strategy based on priority products, i.e., those with the greatest potential
to compete successfully in domestic and foreign markets. The product and
market strategies for each subsector are presented ir. the following para-
graphs.
14.       Electrical Apparatus.  The product and market strategy to be adopted
by the integrated corporation is aimed at maintaining and strengthening the
leader hip position in component and systems products, building up electronics
capability for application in the electrical apparatus business and strength-
ening its marketing and sales capabilities by unifying the marketing function,
setting up nation-wide sales and service centers and establishing a corporate
brand. The export market strategy is to focus on promising independent stan-
dard components and dependent standard subcomponents. These are product
groups where low labor and overhead costs give Shanghai's products a competi-
tive advantage in overseas markets.
15.       Electronic Components.  For electronic components, the product
strategy will focus initially on a group of priority products currently pro-
duced, and facing healthy market demand with opportunity for growth and gains
through technological improvement. These products include capacitors, resis-
tors, connectors, transformers and relays. The intention is to develop the
capability to produce these products at lower cost by enlarging the scale of
production and reaching international quality standards. This way both domes-
tic and export sales are expected to increase. In addition to this strategy
for currently manufactured products, the integrated corporation will develop
new products in the areas of chip components and hybrid circuits. To develop
these products, the corporation will acquire foreign technology. It is
intended to first meet the demands of the domestic market in these fields,
then export later when experience has been gained. In order to ensure the
domestic market success of these products, the corporation will establislh
customer support marketing programs focussed primarily on TV manufacturers and
foreign joint ventures in China. To promote exports, the integrated corpora-
tion will redesign some products to customer specifications in the switches
and connectors, and capacitors product groups. A new organization will be
established in the corporate headquarters for direct sales to OEMS, and sales
through distributors in foreign markets, particularly the United States. The
corporation will also seek contractual relationships with foreign producers to
build up future export markets.
16.       Precision and Scientific Instruments.  The strategy that will be
adopted by this subsector's integrated corporation is to reduce unit costs and
raise quality to gain a greater share of domestic and foreign markets. The
corporation will concentrate on seven products in three groups: (i) chromato-
graphs and spectrophotometers in analytical instruments; (ii) microscopes,
optical elements and optical meteorological equipment in optical systems; and
(iii) balances and related items in physical and general purpose environmental
instruments. The strategy for this subsector has five elements: (i) improve
design and quality, and integrate new technologies into priority products;
(ii) rationalize and consolidate priority factories; (iii) introduce modern
management practices; (iv) improve marketing channels; and (v) train and rede-



-54                              ANNEX 2
Page 5
ploy staff.  The domestic market strategy will focus on major local distribu-
tors, key customers, and joint ventures companies in China. The export strat-
egy will focus mainly on using OEMs for components of spectrophotoineters and
optical systems and using distributors for microscopes and general purpose
instruments.
17.       Printing Machinery.  The subsector falls into three product groups:
large presses, small- and medium-sized presses, and post-press equipment. For
the large presses, the strategy adopted is to increase production of web
presses and high and low-speed models of multicolor sheet-fed offsets. For
multicolor sheet-fed offsets, the first phase will be adapting advanced tech-
nology from abroad to suit domestic needs. For small- and medium-sized
presses, there will be a gradual shift in demand away from letter presses to
sheet-fed offsets. For this reason, equipment purchased for letter press
production to meet increasing demand in the short run will be reoriented for
offset production later.  Also within the small- and mediumr-sized press group,
duplicators will continue to be a priority product due to their continued
strong demand. For the post-press equipment, where Shanghai already has a
strong national market position and there are good prospects for continued
demand growth, emphasis will be on increasing output and upgrading quality,
enhancing capacity for developing new products, and forming economies of
scale. For promoting exports, the strategy involves different approaches to
Asian and Western (European and North American) markets. For Southeast Asian
markets, the integrated corporation will seek reputed sales and service
agents. For Western markets, it will seek joint production agreements with
those foreign companies that already have technology transfer arrangements
with the enterprises to be included in the integrated corporation.
Conclusion
18.       This above statement outlines the reforms, policies and product and
market strategies being implemented by SMG for four subsectors--electrical
apparatus, electronic components, precision and scientific instruments, and
printing machinery. SMG is seeking World Bank support under the proposed SIDP
to implement these measures.



55                              ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai E'ectronic Components Subsector 1/
Background and Organization
1.        China's electronic components industry originated in Shanghai in
1924. At that time, the first electronic company (Ya Mei Ltd.) was set up to
produce simple communication components. Up until 1949, the industry consis-
ted of 70-80 small companies employing about 1,000 people. After 1949, the
industry u,nt through three transitions in the 1950s, 1960s and late 1970s.
In the 1950s, the small-scale passive components manufacturers, which by then
had grown to about 300, were reorganized into several manufacturing factories.
In 1960, these were again reorganized as eleven factories specializing in
components for the radio industry, and later for the TV industry. In late
1970s and early 1980s, collectively-owned components manufacturing factories
were integrated into the subsector, creating a diversified structure of small,
medium, and large companies. During this period the technological foundation
of the subsector was strengthened with imported product and manufacturing
technologles. In 1985, an Electronic Component Research Institute was estab-
lished to serve as the center of technical development, application engineer-
ing, and quality assurance for the subsector.
2.        In March 1989, the electronic components subsector consisted of 24
factories, of which half were state-owned, and half were collectives. The
factories employ more than 27,000 people. Attachment 1 shows the main fea-
tures of the factories. The aggregate value of the net fixed assets in 1988
was Y 180 million ($49 million) and the value of sales in the same year was
Y 535 million ($145 million). The subsector produces a wide variety of pas-
sive components: passive devices (capacitors, resistc. s/potentiometers); elec-
tromechanical (connectors, switches) and electromagnetic (inductors, trans-
formers, relays) products; and acoustic assemblies (speakers, microphones).
In 1989, the industry met 8 percent of the nation's demand for electronic
components; the domestic television industry was the dominant user. Exports
of the subsector in 1990 were approximately Y 34 million ($6.4 million), rep-
resenting 8 percent of the value of component production in Shanghai.
3.        The organization of the subsector at appraisal is presented in
Attachment 2. Within the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG), the Shanghai
Instrumentation and Electronics Bureau (SIEB) is responsible for overall
development of the electronic components subsector. Since the mid-1980s, a
program of enterprise reforms has been implemented gradually to separate the
functions of regulation, ownership, and management. During 1987 and 1988, old
administrative corporations were abolished in Shanghai. The remaining corpo-
rations took on a coordination and support role without having clear .esponsi-
bilities or financial authority. In line with this change, the role of the
1/   The subsector includes only passive components.



- 56 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 2
Shanghai Electronic Component Corporation (SECC) became support to SIEB in
coordinating the subsector. The factories under SIEB became self-sufficient
and operated quite independently. By the end of 1988, each of the 24 facto-
ries in the subsector was a single profit center, responsible for its own
business functions, planning, marketing, production and finance. The facto-
ries varied widely in size and capability. None was of economic size by
international industry standards and there was a great deal of overlap in
products and production capabilities. Furthermore, the marketing function was
seriously underdeveloped in all the factories; none had a credible export
market capability. There were still multiple layers of external control,
unclear roles and responsibilities, and less defined accountability for the
corporation and factories vis-a-vis one another. Given these organizational
constraints, the industry needed to be restructured to attain greater competi-
tiveness.
Performance of the Subsector
4.        Between 1983 and 1989, the sector in Shanghai achieved a growth of
only 5 percert per year compared to the national output growth of 22 percent
per year. The following table shows the development of major product groups
over this period.
SHANGHAI: ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS SU8SECTOR PRODUCTION
(Y MliliIon)
Average annual
growth rate
Product group    1983    1984   1986    1988   1987   1988   1989    1983-87 (X)
Resistors and
Potentiometers    81.8   40.0   44.5   46.6   52.6   68.8   S0.1              8
Capacitors        70.7   89.8   90.7   89.8   89.2   77.S   78.2             6
Switches/
Connector*        41.6   42.8   40.6   41.8   68.8   45.2   88.6            -1
Acoustic
Assemblies        48.1   44.3   40.6   41.8   62.9   65.0   66.0             4
Inductors/
Transformers       8.6    4.1    4.9   26.2   19.4   18.2   18.9            26
Relays            18.4   28.4   44.0  3a.6   44.0   48.6   60.6              18
Others           116.6   78.0   77.4   81.4   10.2  189.7  108.6            -1
SECS
Production       825.7  307.0  348.8   86e.7  437.1  483.8  435.0             6
Nationwide
Production     1,761.2 2,297.6 2,790.3 3,031.9 4,366.7 5,661.4 6,903.6       22
Percentage
of SECS
Production        18.6   13.4   12.6   12.1   10.0    8.6    7.4



- 57 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 3
Although the growth rate of most of the individual product groups in the table
appears to be reasonable over the period, each one lags behind national growth
for the group. No individual product within each product group dominates the
production of output. The share of the subsector in the nation's output has
declined continuously from 19 percent in 1983 to 7 percent in 1989. The sub-
sector's profitability also has declined, from 40 percent of sales in 1983 to
18 percent in 1989. The subsector has not kept pace with the market growth.
To increase the subsector's competitiveness, product specialization needs to
be increased, quality to be improved, and a better quality/price ratio to be
attained. These changes are addressed as part of the subsector restructuring.
Market Development
5.        The market for electronic components in China is very large and has
grown over 20 percent per year since 1983. All the major product groups
shared in this overall high growth, except for relays. Domestic manufacturers
are the major suppliers of the domestic market. Within the domestic market
passive components are sold directly to end-users. The market is dominated by
constmer electronics, particularly the television industry which grew by about
52 percent per year between 1983 and 1987, before slowing at the end of the
decade. The rest of the market is shared by telecommunications, computers,
and other products. Imports and exports both have been low. Imports are
tightly controlled by the government: only high-technology electronic compo-
nents designated for specified user industries are permitted and very few
electronic components that might compete with domestic production are allowed.
Maximum imports ($113 million) during rhe last five years occurred in 1986
(12 percent of the total consumption). Exports amounted to only Y 105 million
($28 million) in 1987, 2 percent of domestic production. Continued rapid
growth in all major product groups is projected for the future. In addition
to products employing existing technologies, some new higher-technology prod-
ucts such as chip components and hybrid circuits will enter the market. A
temporary slowdown in growth during 1989 and 1990 resulted from government
reEcraints on consumer electronics. Nevertheless, annual growth of over
25 percent is estimated during 1987-93.
6.        Although Government regulations do not allow  much import competi-
tion, there is strong competition among domestic manufacturers. The Shanghai
industry lost its market leadership to Jiangsu province in the 1980s, as shown
in the following table. Shanghai now does not lead in any major product
group.



58 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 4
CHINA: MARKET SHARE OF DOMESTIC COMPETITORS
(X)
1983      1984       1985       1986      1987       1988       1989
Shanghai        25        22         20         17        10          9          8
Jiangsu         20        20         20         22         30        25         23
Guangdong        -         3          5          8         10        14         19
Beijing         15        15         10          7         4          6          6
Others          40        40         45         46         46        45         45
In almost all product groups, Jiangsu manufacturers have competed aggres-
sively, outgrowing the market on selected products such as capacitors, resis-
tors, transformers, and developing new products. Guangdong is another compe-
titor whose market share has grown rapidly. It is following an approach simi-
lar to that of Jiangsu and now has matched Shanghai in the second place.
Jiangsu and Guangdong have succeeded because of their greater degree of prod-
uct specialization. This is reflected in their high share of top three prod-
uct groups in the total output--70 percent for Jiangsu and 90 percent for
Guangdong compared to 50 percent for Shanghai. Domestic users attribute the
success of Jiangsu and Guangdong succest to high quality, better service,
flexible technical adaptation, and competitive prices. The Shanghai subsector
must reorient itself to respond to these needs of the domestic electronics
industry. It needs to improve product quality, focus resources on selected
products, develop new products and features, improve the qualitylprice ratio,
and reorganize for faster growth.
7.        Globally, the market for electronic components is very large but has
grown rather slowly over the past few years. Industrialized countries consume
about $30 billion of electronic components, and United States accounts for
50 percent of this market. US consumption also leads in almost all product
groups. The large markets have a very high import propensity. Of the total
$4 billion of components imported in these countries, the United States alone
imports over 50 percent. Capacitors, relays, connectors and acoustic assem-
blies account for 80 percent of US imports. Developing countries have managed
to penetrate the import market in these countries, especially in the United
States, even with high technology products. For example, one third of US
imports of electronic components comes from less developed countries (LDCs).
Even the share of imports into Japan and the EEC from LDCs is increasing. So
far, neither China nor the Shanghai subsector has any significant role in
export markets largely because of their variable quality of goods and poor
service levels. In 1987 China's exports were Y 105 million; of this Shanghai
contributed Y 26 million (25 percent). A large portion of these exports are
at the very low end, for example to the toy industry. Although Shanghai's
exports rose to Y 34 million in 1990, they remained concentrated among low-end
products. In order for the Shanghai subsector to penetrate foreign markets,
it must adopt flexible market channels, supply user-oriented products, reduce
product size, and meet required specification standards. Distributors play a
key role in the export of components. Their share continues to grow rapidly



- 59 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 5
as distributors take over service requirements from suppliers. For example,
in the US the top five distributors control 50 percent of the market. Dis-
tributors and end users are skeptical of China's ability to deliver products
in this competitive market. For Shanghai to penetrate export markets, it must
reorganize to become competitive in terms of quality, price, reliability, and
customer accessibility.
Subsector Capabilities and Competitiveness
8.        The Shanghai electronic components subsector manufactures a wide
variety of products which can be grouped into eleven major product groups.2/
The subsector is capable of supplying the full range of passive components
except for the more modern chip-sized components. Although the subsector
possesses a good market share in some major product groups, these shares have
declined significantly as shown in the table below:
SHANGHAI: DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE OF MAJOR PRODUCT GROUPS
(Z)
1983           1987           1989
Capacitors                 10.5             6.0            5.5
Acoustic Devices            14.8            6.8            7.3
Resistors                  17.8            11.3            8.9
Connectors                  25.3           14.4            8.2
Others                     39.0           14.0           12.0
The subsector's loss of competitive leadership and profitability is attributed
to its high degree of product diversification, outmoded technologies and poor
quality products. Furthermore, the subsector has not been able to develop
high-technology products such as chip components, hybrid circuits, sensors,
and transducers, all of which are in great demand now. Therefore, there is an
urgent need to upgrade and redesign potential products, rationalize product
lines to achieve better concentration, and develop products with new technolo-
gies. In export markets, the subsector's product technologies at the low end
of the market are comparable to those of other manufacturers and its marginal
success in exports has been primarily the result of price competition. This
situation will remain so for years to come, as SECC will not be able to
develop technological changes. However, in order to improve exports, SECC
should work on improving the quality of its products and making them consis-
tent with international standards.
2/   These product groups consist of: capacitors, resistors/potentiometers,
connectors, relays, magnetic devices, acoustic assemblies, photoelectric
devices, micro devices, electronic ceramics, crystal products, and trans-
formers.



- 60-                                 ANNEX 3
Page 6
9.        The subsector also suffers from a number of shortfalls in production
structure, manufacturing technologies, production organization and management
systems. Manufacturing problems in the 24 factories include subscale opera-
tions, excessive overhead, poor facilities and layout, inefficient product/
production development. Product and process overlaps occur with capacitors,
connectors, switches, relays and magnetic materials. Manufacturing also is
hampered by poorly maintained and outdated process equipment, a major portion
of which is more than 10 years old. A new operational strategy is needed to
establish a structure conducive to high quality and low-cost production.
10.       Low quality, irregular and unreliable deliveries of some critical
raw materials (such as ceramics, aluminum foil, plastics, resistant paste) is
another key issue facing subsector. An effective supply chain needs to be
established to improve this situation. Manufacturing systems are another area
of concern. Problems in this area include inefficient production scheduling
levels, long production cycles, large buffer inventories, and poor utilization
of machines. Poor-quality control systems also contribute to higher costs. A
weak management information system does not permit accurate strategic
decision-making by the management. Training and incentive systems also need
to be improved to promote better quality and stronger operating skills.
Restructuring Needs
11.       Despite the constraints under which the subsector has been operating
--regulatory, organizational, technological, managerial, and financial--it has
made a number of accomplishments. It is an important part of the Chinese elec-
tronic components industry, employs good technical skills, has developed a
small export capability, and is profitable. However, the subsector still
faces many obstacles: (a) lagging growth with respect to the domestic elec-
tronic components industry; (b) declining market share; (c) poor product tech-
nology and quality; (d) absence of modern management systems; (e) inefficient
production organization; (f) declining profits, a situation that restricts
funds for future investments; and (g) low export capability. An intensive
restructuring of the subsector is needed to introduce a modern structure and
systems, upgraded and higher technology products, and modern manufacturing
techniques. These changes will allow the subsector to regain its domestic
market share, build up sustainable exports and foreign exchange, and achieve
high levels of profitability for future investments. A comprehensive restruc-
turing plan therefore has been developed for the subsector by the SIEB and the
corporation with the assistance of a reputed international consulting firm.
The plan consists of changes in organizational structure, product and market
strategy, and operational strategy.
12.       Organizational Structure.  Under the new organizational structure,
SECC will become a fully integrated company of eight factories, which manufac-
ture priority products that have strong potential to become competitive in
domestic and export markets. The research and development institute also will
be integrated into the corporation. SECC was established as an integrated
company following issuance of its charter in May 1989. Financial consolida-
tion of the former subsector corporation, the eight factories, and the insti-
tute was done during the nine months after that. The consolidated statements
for 1989 are shown in Attachment 3. By June 1991, the remaining independent
legal status of the constituent factories will be phased out, so that SECC



- 61 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 7
will be the sole legal entity, responsible for profits and losses.  The former
corporation will be reorganized to manage planning, finance, personnel, and
service (particularly marketing) activities. SECC will assume all debt and
tax obligations as a single unit. As part of the restructuring, some opera-
tional functions currently performed by the Bureau will be transferred to
SECC. A Board of Directors will be established to monitor the corporation's
performance and set long-term objectives and policies. Within the corporation
five business profit centers will be created. These units will manufacture:
capacitors/hybrid circuits; resistors/potentiometers; connectors/switches;
transformers/inductors; and relays. Each business unit will have the author-
ity and respoasibility to run the unit as a modern business focusing on prod-
uct development, production, and marketing of products at economic scales.
The remaining 16 factories will continue to operate independently under the
Bureau.
13.       Product/Market Strategy.  The product/market strategy focuses on
selected products that have clear potential to be competitive in the rapidly
growing electronic components market. A two-pronged approach is adopted:
(i) product quality upgrading, capacity and manufacturing enhancement, and
installation of new marketing mechanisms for five existing products; and
(ii) development of two product groups with new technologies. The five exist-
ing products have a large potential for immediate growth, both domestically
and in exports. This determination is based on a detailed analysis of the
products' rmarket attractiveness, competitive position, and the ability to
improve operational performance of related factories. The five products are
capacitors; resistors; connectors/switches; transformers/inductors; a.ad
relays. The two products to be developed are hybrid circuits and chip compo-
- nts. For the domestic market, the corporation will establish strong market-
ing and sales capabilities for the seven product groups. This will be done
through customer support programs focused primarily on TV manufacturers and by
establishing links with foreign joint ventures in China. On the export mar-
ket, the corporation will design customer-specific products for switches/con-
nectors and capacitors and market them for direct sales and through local and
regional distributors. It will also seek to build alliances with foreign
producers to bu'ld up future export markets. The subsector's product/market
strategy will form the basis of investment programs in each of the five busi-
ness units.
14.       Operational Strategy.  The success of the restructured factories is
closely related to their ability to develop and manufacture products effi-
ciently, at economic scale, and at internationai standards of quality, their
ability to develop a strong marketing organization, and their ability to
introduce effective manufacturing systems. To achieve these objectives, the
following measures will be implemented under the strategy:
(a)  short-term programs to improve product designs and quality, includ-
ing acquisition of new product technologies in close coordination
with the R&D institute;
(b)  reorganization of production layout including installation of equip-
ment for rehabilitation, replacement and expansion purposes;
(c)  training of staff in production and management systems;



- 62 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 8
(d) implementation of a basic .nanagement information system covering
production, quality control, personnel, financial and marketing
functions;
(e) installation of new marketing channels in domestic and export mar-
kets; and
(f) technical assistance to help the corporation and the factories plan
and implement the strategies.
15.       Investment Plans.  The investment program to support the restructur-
ing of SECC is estimated as follows:
SECC: RESTRUCTURING INVESTMENT PLAN
Local        Foreign          Total
(Y million)   ($ million)   ($ million)
Civil Works & Facilities                      32.0            1.6            7.7
Equipment                                     40.3           42.9           50.6
Product Development & Tech. Transfer           3.8            9.3           10.0
Training                                       5.9            4.6            5.7
Technical & Management Assist. & Tools        10.8            3.5            5.6
Subtotal                                92.8           61.9           79.7
Contingencies                                 27.9           12.3           17.6
Incremental Working Capital                 125.1             -             24.0
Total                                  245.8           74.2          121.3
The cost estimate is based on an analysis of different programs recommended
under the subsector strategy. These programs include product development,
improvement in facilities, equipment for modernization and capacity expansion,
training and technical assistance. As shown in the table, about 73 percernt of
the installed cost is for 'hardware" (equipment and facilities), and 27 per-
cent is for "software" (product development, training and management systems).
The high cost of 'software' indicates the changes required in current business
practices in order for SECC to succeed in domestic and export markets.
Investments in equipment and facilities alone would not be sufficient to
correct the problems of the subsector.
16.       Implementation Plans.  The subsectoral restructuring plan will take
about five years to implement, as it involves complex tasks in major areas--
the policy environment, organizational structure, product and production oper-
ation, and management organization and systems. Detailed implementation
schedules for these tasks have been established, and are summarized in
Annex 9.



- 63 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 9
17.       Impact Analysis.  As a result of the restructuring strategy, the
capacity of the major product groups is expected to double by 1995. The pro-
gram will substantially increase labor productivity, reduce overheads, and
increase material efficiency. It will almost quadruple the volume of sales of
priority products; domestic sales of these products will increase by over
15 percent per year and exports will contribute 22 percent of the total sales.
Passive devices such as capacitors axid resistors will make a major contribu-
tion to these sales.
SECC: IMPACT ANALYSIS OF RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
L995 as Z
1989             1995             of 1989
Total Sales (S Million)                 69.2            287.9                 416
Domestic Sales ($ Million)              66.6            223.4                 335
Export Sales (S Million)                 2.6             64.4               2,500
Gross Margin (Z)                        17.5             30.5                 175
Net Profit Margin (Z)                    6.9             14.3                 207
Labor Productivity (Index, 1987=100)    98                450                 459



CHINA
SHANCHAI INOUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanahai Electronic Comoonents Subscetor
Malor Features of Factories in tho Subsector (1988)
Year of                        Not fixed       Salos
establish-      Nature of        assets        revenuo     Employmnt
Name of company                                 went          company        ---- (Y million) ----         (no.)        Major products
Radio Factory No. 1                             1960        State-owned         18.6          38.3         2,147        Resistors, capacitors, sensors
Radio Factory No. 6                             1960        State-owned         12.0          42.0         2,002        Capacitors
Radio Factory No. 8                             1960        State-owned          6.6          62.6          1,620       Relays
Radio Factory No. 9                             1960        State-owned          8.0          66.1          2,117       Switches, connectors
Radio Factory No. 12                            1960        State-owned         15.3          44.8         2,137        Potentiometers
Radio Foatory No. 16                            1968        State-ownod          4.6          20.6          1,033       Switches, sockots
Radio Factory No. 28                            1965        State-owned         10.7          24.6            B89       Inductors
Tian He Capacitors Factory                      1946        State-owned          8.1          37.4         2,201        Capacitors
Fu Dan Capacitors Factory                       1947        State-owned         13.8          40.3         1,778        Capacitors
dagnotic Material* Factory                      1964        Stote-owned          8.7          19.5          1,438       Magnetic materials
Foi iJ Corporation                              1960        State-owned         19.1          64.8         2,721        Acoustic assemblies
Zong Ye Factory                                 1969        Colloective         13.1          11.6           816        Capacitors
Lian Yi Radio Factory                           1967        Collective           2.4           9.7           983        Capacitors
agenetic Materials Factory No. 2                1968        Collective           2.4           6.6           442        Magnetic materials
Electronic Compononts Factory No. 2             1969        Collective           0.9           6. 7          449        Transformers
Electronic Components Factory No. 13            1968        Collective           0.6           3.9           403        Sockets
Electronic Components Factory No. 14            1974        Collective           0.3           2.1            249       Switches, Sockets
Electronic Components Factory No. 16            1958        Collective           0.9           2.8            324       Fuses, sockets
Eloectronic Components Factory No. 21           1968        Collectivo          22.8           6.7           660        Capacitors
Xiang Yang Factory                              1968        Collective           2.8          11.4           818        Resistors
Yu Zhou Factory                                 1968        Collective           2.3           9.3            538       Potentiometers
Huang Pu Factory                                1961        Collective           0.8           8.0            613       Capacitors
Chang Zhong Faectory                            1965        Collective           1.7          12.9           667        Transformors
Fong Lei Factory                                1969        Collective           2.1          16.9           900        Acoustic assemblies
Total                                                                     180.3        636.0         27.641
ox



- 65 -                          ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Electronic Components Subsector
Subsector Organization, January 1989
Central
Government               Issue policy guidelines based
State                  on state economic considerations
Council
Shanghai
Municipal                Issues policy guidelines for
Government               Shanghai Municipality
Shanghai                              Bureaus act as
Instrumentation and                        regulatory bodies
Electronic Industrial
Bureau
|Corporatin iShanghai                    ICorporation|       Subsector corpora-
Electonic                             tions (8) coordi-
Components                             nate companies'
Corporation                            activities
Companies            24 Companies|             ompanies      Companies (over
200) are production
entities



ANNEX 3
- 66 -                          Attachment 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Electronic Components Corporation
Consolidated Financial Statements, December 31, 1989
A. Consolidated Income Statement
Y'OO0
Sales income                                                               252,632
Less cost of goods sold                                                  209,753
Gross income                                                                42,879
Less administrative and selling expenses                                  12,645
Operating income                                                            30,234
Other income                                                               3,852
Interest and other expenses                                               13,926
Net income                                                                  20,160
Taxes                                                                     11,714
Net income after taxes                                                       8,446
B. Consolidated Balance Sheet
Y'OOO                                       Y'000
Current Assets                              Current Liabilities
Cash and bank balance          1,756        Accounts payable              80,664
Accounts receivable           68,582        Short-term borrowings         69,510
Inventories                  148,056        Others                           339
Total Current Assets      218,394          Total Current Liab.        150,513
Fixed Assets                                Long-Term Liabilities
Land, buildings, machin-                    Long-term debt                83,748
ery and equipment          152,164       Others                              -
Accumulated depreciation      70,629
Total Liabilities         234,261
Net Fixed Assets           81,535
Equity
Other Assets                    92,639        State funds                  104,296
Special funds                 49,483
TOTAL ASSETS              392,568       Enterprise funds                4,528
Total Equity/Funds        158,307
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY                  392,568



- 67 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Precision and Scientific Instruments Subsector
Size and Organization
1.        The Shanghai Precision and Scientific Instruments Subsector (SSIS)
is a very small and young subsector. Most of the factories in the subsector
were established in the 1950s. The subsector includes 13 factories and a
research institute which together had net fixed assets of only Y 49.7 million
($13.4 million) at the end of 1988. Sales in that year were Y 155.8 ($42
million) and the subsector employed 9,500 people. The factories vary widely
in size, but all are small compared to worldwide industry standards. The
largest factory had sales of Y 30.2 million ($8.1 million) with net fixed
assets of Y 13.2 million ($3.6 million) in 1988. The subsector's major prod-
uct groups include analytical, optical and general purpose Instruments.li
Attachment 1 summarizes the major features of each factory in this subsector.
2.        The current structure of SSIS has organizational, operational and
marketing strategic constraints which result in a lack of accountability,
overlapping of products and processes and inability to meet changing marketing
conditions. These constraints make it imperative to change the structure of
the subsector to attain greater efficiency and competitiveness. Structurally,
at the time of appraisal, SSIS was organized in a manner similar to the
Shanghai Electronic Components Subsector (Attachment 2 of Annex 3). The SSIS
is subjected to controls from various levels--the central government, the
Shanghai Municipal Government, the Shanghai Instrumentation & Electronic
Industrial Bureau (SIEB), and the Shanghai Precision Scientific Instrument
Corporation (SPSIC). Reforms in 1987 and 1988 abolished the administrative
level of SPSIC and put the factories under the direct control of SIEB. SIEB
performed a regulatory and controlling role, making sure that the factories
abided by policy guidelines and performance targets established by the central
and state governments. This change gave SIEB more functions with respect to
the factories, yet SIEB was not suitably equipped to carry out some of them.
To make up for this, SPSIC was given a coordinating role, although it no
longer had any direct responsibilities over the factories. Each of the 13
factories functioned as an "individual entity" responsible for its own plan-
ning, marketing, production and finances.
Performance of the Subsector
3.        The subsector's output over the past few years is shown in the fol-
lowing table:
1/   These include:  analytical instruments- spectrophotometers, chromato-
graphs; optical instruments--microscopes, optical elements, optical mete-
orological products; and general purpose instruments--balances, pollution
control instruments, etc.



- 68 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
SHANGHAI: SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS SUBSECTOR PRODUCTION, 1983-89
(Y Million)
Average Annual
Growth (2)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1983-89
Analytical Instruments  34    54    66    58    60    64    66    12
Optical Instruments       10    10    22    10    12    33    31    21
Balances                  17    16    20    22    17    15    14    -3
Others                    49    40    22    30    41    32    33    -6
SSIS Production          110   120   130   120   130   144   144           5
Nationwide Production  440   475   500   485   480    NA   540             3
Between 1983 and 1989, production in Shanghai grew faster than in the country
overall--5 percent per year, compared to 3 percent per year. However,
Shanghai's profitability during this period has declined from 42 percent to
20 percent. The growth of the subsector is based on its strong position in
spectrophotometers, chromatographs, and general purpose instruments. These
three products contribute 50 percent of the subsector's output and 65 percent
of its profit. Microscopes and balances, two important products, have 14 per-
cent of the subsector's output. However, these products contribute only
7 percent of the subsector's profits at present. Except for microscopes, the
subsector has a sound and reputable position in the domestic market. The sub-
sector has been able to increase its market share over recent years, but it
faces continuous competition from other emerging manufacturers at the national
level. A well defined developmental approach is required to increase its
competitiveness. Also, its performance in export markets must be improved.
The subsector's exports are very small, accounting for 4 percent of produc-
tion. In 1987, it exported instruments with a total value of Y 6.0 million
($1.6 million). This represented over 40 percent of the nation's exports of
these products. The products exported included primarily optical instruments
and elements.
CHINA: MARKET SHARE OF DOMESTIC COMPETITORS
(Z)
1983                1987                1989
Shanghai                                17                   22                  26
Jiangsu                                 13                  15                   17
Beijing                                  9                   13                  16
Others                                  61                   50                  41



- 69 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 3
Market Development
4.        The market for scientific instruments in China is relatively small.
In 1987, domestic consumption was Y 590 million ($160 million) and growth
averaged only 2 percent per year between 1983 and 1987. Due to capacity limi-
tations, local manufacturers have not been able to meet the national demand.
Imports therefore have played an important part in meeting domestic demand for
scientific instruments, particularly at the very high end of precision and
technology. Imports have provided over 20 percent of the market, but over the
last few years, the authorities have restricted imports. Domestic production
of scientific instruments is dominated by analytical instruments (spectropho-
tometers and chromatographs) and optical instruments (microscopes and optical
elements), but the strongest growth has occurred in balances.
CHINA: DOMESTIC PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS
(Y Million)
Production                      Consumption
Average annual                   Average annual
growth (X)                       growth (Z)
1983   1989       1983-89        1983   1989       1983-89
Analytical
Instruments        180    200         2            260     270          1
Optical
Instruments        180    282         8            280     280          0
Balances              40     58         6             30       62        13
Others                45     NA        NA             NA       NA        NA
Total           445    540         3            570     612          1
Scientific instruments are sold to many industries, but the leading consumer
is the chemical industry, with 16 percent of market consumption. Because of
customer diversity, domestic sales are marketed through four national distri-
butors. These distributors cover about three-fourths of the market. SSIS is
the leading competitor in the industry and has increased its market share over
recent years. In 1989, SSIS had more than 70 percent of the domestic market
in four product groups (abey refractometers, universal tool microscopes,
spectrum-photometers, and conductometers) and between 50 percent and 70 per-
cent in three others (gas chromatographs, pH meters, and mechanical balances).
However, its main competitors, Jiangsu and Beijing, also have strengthened
their position in the domestic market in the 1980s, reaching 15 percent and
13 percent, respectively, of the national scientific instruments market in
1987 (when Shanghai's overall share was 22 percent). SSIS is specialized in
analytical instrument and balances, but is largely diversified in other prod-
ucts. In contrast, its major competitors are concentrated in a few product
categories and have pursued new strategies in the market with improved prod-
ucts. Over the coming years the market is expected to show slow growth of
3-4 percent per year. However, a shift is expected to occur from mechanical



- 70 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 4
to electronic balances, and towards environmental analysis instruments and
optical meteorological products. Domestically, SSIS should develop a targeted
distribution and marketing system for priority instruments. This requires
effective technical support service to selected larger user companies, foreign
joint ventures in China, and key national distributors.
5.        The global market for scientific instruments in 1987 was about $5.0
billion. Of this market, analytical instruments, especially chromatographs
and spectrophotometers, account for nearly 50 percent. Industrialized coun-
tries consume nearly 70 percent of the world's scientific instruments. The
United States leads, consuming 40 percent of world production. Analytical
instruments, mainly chromatographs and spectrophotometers, constitute nearly
one-fourth of the global scientific instruments market. The manufacturing of
scientific instruments is highly concentrated in industrialized countries.
For example, the top five US manufacturers control 50 percent of the domestic
market. In Japan, the top three producers control 70 percent of the market.
The European industry also is moving toward consolidation. Therefore, the
ability to export scientific instruments depends largely upon the accessibil-
ity of these Lhree markets--US, Japan, and EEC. Imports of scientific instru-
ments in these countries account for 20 percent of global market and the
United States accounts for half of this. Imports from developing countries in
these countries are low, only 10 percent of world imports. They consist pri-
marily of microscopes and optical measuring instruments, as well as elements
in the US and Japan, and analytical instruments in the EEC. In this large
global market, China's exports of scientific instruments are extremely low,
amounting to Y 14 million ($3.8 million) in 1987. Optical instruments,
including those of SSIS, are the major contributors to China's exports of
scientific instruments. Distributors and end-users in import markets are
skeptical of China's ability to deliver instruments of world-class standards.
In order to build up exports in these markets, SSIS must be able to meet prod-
uct requirements for international design and standards, reliability, and
customer accessibility. SSIS also must build up appropriate marketing chan-
nels, using OEMs for spectrophotometers and optical elements, and using dis-
tributors for microscopes and general physical instruments. In 1989, the
Shanghai subsector exported $3.3 million, a considerable increase over past
years.
Subsector Capabilities and Competitiveness
6.        Within the three major product categories, the Shanghai instruments
subsector manufactures a wide range of products. For a small domestic market
this product mix is inappropriately wide and varied. The product range needs
to be concentrated and other improvements implemented such as new designs for
microscopes, better detector design and control systems for analytical instru-
ments, the introduction of electronics in products, and microprocessor control
for laboratory instruments. Competition also is affected by manufacturing
organization, processes and systems. There are numerous overlapping products
and duplication of manufacturing processes among the factories. This has led
to a low scale of production, low utilization of equipment, high capital
investment, excessive overhead costs, and so on. The workshops in the facto-
ries are physically isolated from each other, and unsuited for modern manufac-
turing. Manufacturing equipment is too outdated to adapt to changing market
specifications; this leads to excessive downtime, high maintenance costs and



- 71 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5
poor product quality. Also, the management organization and systems need
improvement. Poor management of production has led to long production cycles,
high inventories, and low productivity. Low-quality raw materials and parts,
and their unsuitability for machining and assembly, hampers the production of
precision instruments. Under this project, organizational steps will be
introduced for improved procurement and specification procedures. Also, the
corporation will work with suppliers to develop the latter's capability to
provide timely deliveries. Improved access to foreign exchange under the
project will allow the corporation to import critical raw materials and compo-
nents, such as microprocessors and special optical glass and gratings. Also,
rigorous inspection and acceptance programs for incoming materials will be
established. Finally, the organization lacks marketing and financial account-
ing systems to develop market strategies. As a result of these deficiencies,
the subsecto,. faces serious cost constraints, both in domestic and interna-
tional markets. The proposed development plan for the subsector addresses
these constraints.
Restructuring Need
7.        The many problems facing the subsector in the area of organizational
structure, product quality and technology, manufacturing process, and manage-
ment structure and systems call for restructuring and renewal in a slowly
growing market. The objective is to create an appropriate business environ-
ment supported by appropriate policy which will make the subsector more com-
petitive in domestic and export markets. The major elements of the restruc-
turing strategy, the first step of which has been implemented, are summarized
below.
8.        Organizational Structure.  Under the new structure, one financial
entity has been formed by uniting the subsector administrative corporation and
the factories manufacturing priority products as an integrated company, SPSIC.
The integrated company was established by issuance of its charter in May 1989.
Financial consolidation of the former subsector corporation and the factories
was completed by March 1990. The consolidated statements for 1989 are shown
in Attachment 2. By June 1991, the remaining independent legal status of the
constituent factories will be phased out, so that SPSIC will be a single legal
entity. SIEB will evolve into a regulatory entity and become less involved in
the planning, financial, and operational activities of the corporation. Some
functions currently performed by the Bureau will be transferred to the corpo-
ration.  As with the electronics subsector, the Bureau will concentrate on
policy making. The former subsector corporation is being reorganized as a
company headquarters and will be responsible for planning, financial, person-
nel, and market development functions. SPSIC will assume all debt and tax
obligations as a single unit. Under the corporation three business units will
be established. These units will focus on priority products: analytical
instruments; optical instruments and systems; physical instruments, and envi-
ronmental control instruments. Existing factories associated with these busi-
nesses will be consolidated under the relevant new units. This restructuring
will eliminate product/production duplication, reduce manufacturing costs,
improve product quality, and strengthen marketing and sales capabilities. The
business units will be responsible for product development, production, and
marketing functions. The factories grouped under the business units will
operate as cost centers. Under the plan, six out of the existing 13 factories



- 72-                             ANNEX 4
Page 6
will be regrouped. The reorganization was agreed with the relevant authori-
ties, and began in June 1989. Implementation is expected to be completed in
1992.
9.        Product Market Strategy.  A product/market strategy for the subsec-
tor has been developed based on an analysis of products currently manufactured
in the subsector, their market access, product technology, customer service,
market growth and profitability. The basic principles governing this strategy
are: improve quality, introduce new technology and designs, and establish
appropriate marketing networks domestically and in export markets. Domesti-
cally, the subsector will concentrate on seven products in three major product
groups: (a) chromatographs and spectrophotometers in analytical instruments;
(b) microscopes, optical elements, and optical meteorological in optical sys-
tems; and (c) balances and related items in physical instruments and general
purpose environmental instruments. Potential products for export are optical
systems and components of spectrophotometers. Initially these would be sold
at the low end of market. However, after technical improvements, the export
market for complete sets of spectrophotometers, chromatographs and optical
systems coul.d be large. The domestic marketing strategy for priority products
will focus on major local distributors, key customers, and joint venture com-
panies in China. This will be achieved by developing an adequate sales/tech-
nical marketing staff and reorganizing the marketing function to facilitate
market feedback on product performance. The export marketing strategy will
focus mainly on using OEMs for spectrophotometers and optical elements and
using distributors for microscopes and general purpose instruments. This
strategy will establish an appropriate marketing infrastructure, initially tor
the United States market, where there is a large potential for exports. The
product/market strategy for the subsector will govern the strategic planning
of the corporation relating to its future development and resource allocation.
10.       Operational Strategy.  The operational strategy involves product
development, production rationalization, and improvements in management prac-
tices, marketing and training systems. Strategic plans have been developed in
each of these areas to promote efficient production and marketing of priority
products. These plans consist of: (i) implementing product development plans
for priority products to improve design and quality, and to integrate new
technologies; (ii) rationalizing and consolidating priority production facto-
ries to manufacture products at lower cost; (iii) introducing modern practices
and systems for management information, strategic planning, financial and cost
accounting, production management, and marketing; (iv) setting up improved
marketing channels in domestic and export markets; (v) training and redeploy-
ing staff; and (vi) providing technical assistance to implement the subsec-
tor's strategy and the proposed project.
11.       Investment Plans.  The total cost of implementing the restructuring
plans is estimated to be $58 million. The estimate for major cost categories
is as follows:



- 73                              ANNEX 4
Page 7
SPSIC: RESTRUCTURING INVESTMENT PLAN
Local         Foreign          Total
(Y Million)    (S million)    ($ million)
Civil works and facilities                 15.6             -               3.0
Equipment                                  16.5            15.9            19.1
Product and technology development          4.0             7.5             8.3
Training                                    2.7             2.2             2.7
Technical & management assistance           4.9             3.0             4.0
Subtotal                              43.7            28.6           37.0
Contingencies                              13.1             5.7             8.2
Incremental working capital                68.2             -              13.1
Total                                125.0            34.3           58.2
A significant part of the investment is allocated to software activities for
product development, training, and technical and management assistance. In
order to use the hardware equipment to best advantage, software must be
strengthened to allow for modern management practices, the development of
quality products with new technology, and marketing in an extremely competi-
tive environment.
12.       Implementation Plans.  Detailed implementation plans have been
worked out for the major task areas: the policy environment, organizational
structure, product and production rationalization, organizational moderniza-
tion, and management systems. These plans are developed as a framework with
the flexibility to accommodate changes during the implementation process as
the need arises. Implementation is expected to take five years. Details are
provided in Annex 9.
13.       Impact Analysis.  Restructuring of the corporation is expected to
increase domestic and export sales, improve the corporation's profit margin,
and increase labor productivity, as shown in the table below.



- 74 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 8
SPSIC: IMPACT ANALYSIS OF RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
1995 as 2
1987         1995           of 1987
Total Sales ($ million)                       34.1          63.2             185
Domestic Sales (million)                      32.9          51.4             156
Export Sales ($ million)                       1.2          11.8             983
Gross Margin (2 of Total Sales)               24.2          29.6             122
Net Profit Margin (2 of Total Sales)           9.8          11.8             120
Labor Productivity Index (1987=100)            100           400             ;00



CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Precislon Scientific Instrument Subsector
Us;or Features of -actories Jn the Subsector (1989)
Year ov                        Not fixed       Sales
establish-      Nature of        assets        revenue     Employment
Name of company                                m*nt            company       ---- (Y million) ----         (no.)        Major products
Optical Instrument Factory                      1963        State-owned         12.6          32.6          2,850       Uicroscopes, optical element,
measuring and analytical
instruments
Optical Instrument Factory No.2                 1943        State-owned          6.1           6.7            711       Measuring instruments
Optical Instrum_nt Fectory No.3                 1958        State-owned           1.2          1.3            271       Surveying instruments
Physical Optical Instrument Factory             1966        State-owned          4.6           4.3            309       Measuring instruments
Optical Lens Factory                            1958        State-owned          1.1           2.1            308       Optical lenses and *l em nts
Analytical Instrument Factory                   1952        State-owned          8.4          43.5 S,203                Analytical instruments
Rex Instrument Factory                          1953        State-owned          3.1          17.7            488       Electrochemical, analytical
and environmental protection
monitoring instruments
Analytical Instrument Factory No.3              1968        State-owned          4.1          19.8            590       Analytical instruments
Electro-Optical Devices Works                   1958        State-owned          3.1          12.4            407       Light sources, electrodes
Balance Manufacturing Factory                   1948        State-owned          6.2          17.3            769       Precisian balances
Balance Instruments Works No.2                  1953        State-owned           1.9          7.5            4SO       Precision balances
Qin Fen Instrument Factory                      1980        Collective           0.8           2.1            305       Microscopes
Hongyu Equipment Factory                        1968        Collective           0.7           2.8            33        Environmental protection and
monitoring instruments
Optical Instrument Research Institute           1984        State-owned          2.1           -              361       Product development
Total                                                                      64.0         189.0         9.333                                          :D.
rt



ANNEX 4
- 76 -                         Attachment 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Precision and Scientific Instruments Corporation
Consolidated Financial Statements, December 31, 1989
A. Consolidated Income Statement
Y'000
Sales income                                                               131,774
Less cost of goods sold                                                  100,281
Gross income                                                                31,493
Less administrative and selling expenses                                   9,107
Operating income                                                            22,386
Other income                                                                   -
Interest and other expenses                                                  442
Net income                                                                  21,944
Taxes                                                                      9,568
Net income after taxes                                                      12,376
B. Consolidated Balance Sheet
Y'OOO                                       Y'OOO
Current Assets                              Current Liabilities
Cash and bank balance          3,930        Accounts payable              26,282
Accounts receivable           15,391        Short-term borrowings         41,780
Inventories                   76,431        Others                           469
Total Current Assets       95,752           Total Current Liab.        68,531
Fixed Assets                                Long-Term Liabilities
Land, buildings, machin-                    Long-term debt                14,620
ery and equipment           73,722       Others                              -
Accumulated depreciation    35,046
Total Liabilities          83,151
Net Fixed Assets           38,676
Equity
Other Assets                    22,467        State funds                   56,531
Special funds                 14,370
TOTAL ASSETS              156,895       Enterprise funds                2,843
Total Equity/Funds         73,744
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY                  156,895



77                              ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Electrical Apparat - Subsector
Background and Organization
1.        The Shanghai electrical apparatus industry emerged in 1919.  Since
then it has gone through many stages of development. From 1919 to 1956, the
industry included hundreds of small electrical apparatus manufacturers. In
1956, the Shanghai Electric Power Facility Manufacturer Corporation was set up
which included manufacturers of electrical apparatus as well As power genera-
tion. In 1960, the Shanghai Electrical Arparatus Co. (SEAC) was set up as a
separate company specializing in the manufacture of electrical apparatus.
Until 1986, this company exerted considerable influence over the production,
product planning, personnel, and marketing decisions of its factories. In
1987, the central government promoted the concept of each factory as an inde-
pendent enterprise, and SEAC became purely a coordination entity. Despite
recent changes, strong traditional ties have been built up between the coLpo-
ration and factories over the last 30 years and these ties persist even now.
2.        At the beginning of 1989, SEAC was coordinating 28 factories which
operated as independent legal entities responsible for their own performance
quota, technology and product development, production schedules, marketing and
sales. This subsector is the largest manufacturer of low-voltage electrical
apparatus products in China, with sales of Y 703 million and 23,100 employees
in 1989. Its products have the broadest coverage of all domestic competitors
in the electrical apparatus industry and include 800 series and 3,000 varie-
ties. The products can be broken down into two basic categories: (a) compo-
nents: contactors, relays, circuit breakers, transformers, voltage regula-
tors; and (b) systems: switchboards, drive controls, and rectification sys-
tems. The Shanghai subsector maintains a 15-20 percent domestic market share
for its key products and has enjoyed real growth of about 5 percent a year
over the last seven years. In 1989, it exported $8 million worth of electri-
cal products. Attachment 1 shows the main features of the factories in the
subsector.
3.        In addition to the 28 independent factories, the subsector corpora-
tion oversees the Shanghai Electrical Apparatus Technology Research Institute
and four subsidiaries. The subsidiaries have been set up to facilitate mate-
rial procurement, marketing and sales, systems engineering and technology
development in the subsector. The SEAC headquarters corporation and its sub-
sidiaries together employ about 350 people. Following its formation in 1987,
the corporation provided some corporate functions, but horizontal integration
among the factories was very limited. For enhancing the competitiveness and
efficiency of the electrical apparatus subsector, changes in the current orga-
nization structure were considered necessary in 1989, and the first steps in a
restructuring program agreed with the Bank have been undertaken since then.



- 78-                             ANNEX 5
Page 2
Performance of the Subsector
4.        The total size of the domestic market was estimated to be Y 6 bil-
lion in 1987. It had been growing by about 8 percent a year between 1980 and
985--a rate it is expected to maintain over the next decade. Low-voltage
electrical apparatus products are required for industrial, commercial, and
residential installations and are incorporated into many items of industrial
equipment (e.g., machine tools). Many of these products were designed in the
1960s and early 1970s and are still widely used in China today. They repre-
sent the majority of sales for most factories in the electrical apparatus
industry. Since 1979, various new generation products have been introduced in
the country using the technical know-how of Western companies such as Siemens,
AEG, BBC, Westinghouse. These new generation products have obvious advantages
over old generation products in terms of their function, quality, durability,
manufacturing efficiency, material usage, and application efficiencies. As
China's economy develops, it will need to produce and use a greater number of
higher quality electrical apparatus products. At the same time, competition
among the regions of China will continue to intensify. For example, besides
the five original electrical apparatus bases (Shanghai, Shenyang, Beijing/
Tianjin, Tianshui, and Zunyi), many collective enterprises have entered the
market. The dominant products among these new entrants are manufacturing
products that have low entry barriers and high profitability, such as switch-
boards. Furthermore, each region tends to favor local producers, so Shanghai
needs to compete aggressively in other regions. The Shanghai subsector's
market share has been declining over the last several years. Annual sales
have grown at 5 percent a year, compared to 8 percent a year for the national
industry. The decline in SEAC's market share is due to its own production
constraints, intensive competition from other regional manufacturers, and
inefficient domestic marketing channels. SEAC also has been introducing new
generation products. The company will have to find a way to apply its compe-
titive advantage to regain market share and achieve a superior competitive
position.
Market Development
5.        Growth in the domestic market presents promising opportunities for
the SEAC group. Projected growth rates and SEAC sale targets for key products
are presented in the following table. These projections form the basis of the
proposed product-market strategy.



- 79 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 3
CHINA - DOMESTIC DEMAND OF KEY ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS
(Y million)
National Sales                   SEAC Sales
1987             1995            1987          1995
Contactor                        260              500              35           110
Relay                            176              335              25            82
Circuit breaker                  270              648              43           128
Voltage regulator                 37               67              16            40
Transformer                    1,835            3,200              43           167
Circuit board                    467              833              27            75
Drive control                    157              392              34           104
Rectifying system                 94              150              27            45
Total                    3,296            6,125              250           706
According to these figures, an average annual growth rate of over 8 percent is
foreseen in the domest4c market. The SEAC group wishes to strengthen its
leadership position by gearing up for the much higher annual growth rate of
14 percent.
6.        The world market for electrical components is extremely large but
highly competitive; the US market alone exceeded $50 billion sales in 1987.
SEAC has good export potential due to its competitive advantage in low labor
costs. In 1987 SEAC exported $5.4 million. However, 50 percent of its
exports consisted of storage batteries sold to the USSR and Eastern Europe in
that year. SEAC also exported contactors and relays to Brown Boveri and
Siemens in Europe, as a form of payment for technology transfer under prevail-
ing buy-back agreements. Both companies have expressed satisfaction with the
quality of SEAC products. In 1989, exports grew to $8 million, and were
expected to reach $10 million in 1990. Building on its presence in European
markets, SEAC should be able to capture a small portion of the global market.
Here, independent standard components and dependent standard subcomponents
offer the best chance of success. SEAC also will need to build up its export
channels and management capabilities in primary markets, Southeast Asia, and
the US.
Subsector Capabilities and Competitiveness
7.        Although the SEAC group has a good operating efficiency compared to
other domestic companies, it still needs to reduce manufacturing costs and
shorten manufacturing cycles. SEAC sales per employee were Y 25,000 per year
in 1987 or 79 percent higher than the domestic average. By 1989, sales per
employee had risen to Y 31,000. The profit on sales is 17 percent, and return
on assets also is very high. However, SEAC sales per employee are only
5-10 percent of those of foreign firms; inventory turnover is less than
25 percent that of foreign companies and lead times for delivery of "systems"



- So -                         ANNEX 5
Page 4
products are much longer. Thus, there is a need to improve operational effi-
ciencies to decrease manufacturing costs and shorten the manufacturing cycle.
8.        SEAC has at present a subsidiary which supplies its requirements of
steel, copper, aluminum and other materials. Most of the raw materials are
locally available. However, irn tha case of pressed sheet steel components
required for contactor bodies and switchgear panels, cold rolled steel sheets
are imported. Likewise, silicon steels required for the manufacture of trans-
former cores are also imported. No major problems with material inputs are
expected; however, to reduce scrap generated in the cutting of steels, a mate-
rial processing center will be established under the project. As SEAC pro-
gressively enhances its systems electronics capability for integration with
its electrical apparatus, there will be need for import of certain electronic
components.
9.        The SEAC group has a competitive advantage over other domestic com-
petitors in terms of its products, production and equipment, and technical
know-how. In order to apply this competitive advantage to impzove its posi-
tion in domestic and international markets, SEAC needs organizational restruc-
turing and further investments 'n both hardware and software.
10.       Between 1981 and 1988, SEAC invested $50 million to introduce new
generation products, including expenditures on technology and production
equipment. These new generation products fall into the category of growth
products and they are expected to become the major products of the next five
years. Although SEAC has led domestic competitors in introducing these new
generation products, with 34 percent of the sales in 1987 ccming from these
products, so far it has not been able to produce them in quantities large
enough to reduce unit costs or meet market demand.
11.       SEAC's competitive advantage in system products is the greatest for
projects which are technically very complex and/or require sophisticated
equipment. However, for less complex jobs, SEAC cannot compete with collec-
tive enterprises because of its long delivery cycles. If SEAC could reduce
its delivery cycle by half, it could increase sales of its systems products by
50 percent.
12.       Shanghai electronic apparatus factories and reputed foreign compa-
nies are very far apart in terms of technology and product development. Here,
the SEAC group needs to focus more on technology absorption and manufacturing
efficiency. The company can make advances in these areas by restructuring its
R&D organizations and making technology investment a priority. Electronics is
an important technology area. As SEAC's system products use more and more
electronics to improve control and reliability functions, the company will
need to build up its electronics capability. The focus here should be on
applications, conceptual designs, printed circuit board design and assembly.



- 81 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 5
Restructuring Needs
13.       To improve its efficiency and market pordtion, the Shanghai electri-
cal apparatus subsector needed to be reorganized into an integrated corpora-
tion, a step taken in May 1989 when a charter was issued. The new structure
will improve SEAC's potential to achieve: (a) competitive advantage in prod-
uct lines in the low-veltage electzical apparatus industry; (b) scale econo-
mies in production, marketing, product technology development, raw material
purchasing; (c) a sound financial structure; (d) an efficient allocation of
investment and foreign currency; and (e) a competitive advantage in 'systems'
products. In the industry worldwide, only a few major players are active in
each region because of the full coverage of products required and the econo-
mies of large-scale operations. In the long term, China also will have only
few major manufacturers of electrical apparatus, and SEAC stands a good chance
of being one of them.
14.       Organizational Structure.  SEAC's corporate capability and tradi-
tional linkages with the factories is facilitating its restructuring into an
integrated corporation. Financial consolidation was done by March 1990 (see
Attachment 3), and by June 1991, the remaining independent legal status of the
constituent factories will be phased out, so that SEAC, as an integrated com-
pany, will be the sole legal entity, responsible for profits and losses, and
handling debt and tax obligations as a single unit. Nonetheless, considerable
organizational development and management training will be required to imple-
ment the new structure. The structure will consist of regrouping some of the
28 factories into five autonomous divisions and integrating the Research
Institute as a "cost center" within this organization. In addition, a sepa-
rate division will be established to include the two fuse manufacturing facto-
ries and the metal alloy plant. In the long run, this division will be sepa-
rated from the corporation and function as an independent entity. The five
proposed divisions include: (a) the Low Voltage Electrical Apparatus Compo-
nents Division; (b) the Machine Tool Electric Apparatus Division; (c) the
Drive Control Division; (d) the Trarsmission, Distribution and Transformer
Division; and (e) the Electronics Division. A material processing center will
be established to optimize the storage and cutting of sheet steel used in the
manufacturing of electrical components and panels.
15.       The profit center divisions will include only those factories which
manufacture products and provide critical components/services which are essen-
tial to SEAC's product/market strategy. The factories to be included under
the pioposed divisions are presented in Attachment 2.
16.       Marketing and sales functions for international markets are being
consolidated at the corporate level. In addition, each division will have a
domestic market/sales function. The finance function at the corporate level
will cover all the financial and accounting functions. Other corporate func-
tions include strategic planning and personnel. SEAC will be treated as one
entity in dealing with external entities including the bureaus and banks.
SEAC also will be given direct export and import rights, while continuing to
work closely with foreign trading organizations such as CMEC. Each division
general manager will run the division as a profit center. The general manager
will be responsible for divisional product/market strategy, production plan-
ning, and finances.



-82-                                ANNEX 5
Page 6
17.       SEAC will need to develop managerial capabilities both at the corpo-
rate and divisional level to perform the functions expected of them. To avoid
disruptions in production, a transitional substructure will be needed. During
this time the 21 factories will report to SEAC directly, and the finance,
marketing, personnel, and technology planning functions will be centralized at
the corporate level. The Research Institute becomes a part of SEAC right
away. During the transition period, priority is being given to rationalizing
products and consolidating production facilities among the factories.
18.       Product/Market Strategy.  The strategies are based on a joint market
study carried out by internationai and local consultants in consultation with
the corporation. Three product/market strategies have been identified for
SEAC's domestic market. These include: (a) strengthening SEAC's leadership
position in components and systems products; (b) building up an electronics
capability in the electrical apparatus business; and (c) strengthening SEAC's
marketing/sales capabilities. SEAC's position in components and systems will
be improved through volume production of new-generation products, improving
the efficiency of systems assembly; developing critical new systems to main-
tain leadership; 'eveloping next generation etand-alone products for import
substitution. Marketing and sales will be strengthened by unifying the mar-
keting function; setting up nationwide sales-service centers and establishing
a corporate brand.
19.       Before any electrical components are accepted by a market, they must
conform to national specifications. Although SEAC has met IEC standards for
low-voltage electrical apparatus products in Europe, it has to modify its
specifications and have its products retested to meet US requirements. SEAC
has a 15-20 percent cost advantage in labor and overheads which it can exploit
for generic standard products such as contactors, overload relays, and "naked"
transformer coils. It also can increase sales to its licensors such as BBC.
20.       SEAC's product/market strategy for exports is designed to increase
sales from $5.4 million in 1987 to $14-16 million by 1995. This should be
achieved by focusing on those independent standard components and dependent
standard subcomponents which offer the best chance of success. To exploit
this potential, SEAC will need to build export channels in its primary markets
in Southeast Asia and in the US.
21.       Operational Strategy.  If the proposed restructuring of the subsec-
tor is to succeed, substantial improvements are needed along all areas which
result in enhanced operational effectiveness. These include: materials man-
agement, production planning and control, plant layout, preventive mainte-
nance, industrial engineering, quality assurance, etc. There is a need for
training in marketing, in cost analysis, and in strategic planning. Manage-
ment information systems are needed for effective planning and control at the
divisional and corporate levels. Product development and technology manage-
ment functions also need to be strengthened.
22.       Investment Plans.  The investment plan to implement the strategies
is estimated as follows:



- 83 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 7
SEAC - RESTRUCTURING INVESTMENT PLAN
Local          Foreign          Total
(Y Million)     ($ million)     ($ million)
Equipment                                   40.3             23.4            31.1
Civil works                                 23.7              -               4.5
Technology transfer                           -              10.3            10.3
Training                                     2.8              2.0             2.5
Management system                             3.4             2.4             3.1
Management tools                              -               0.7             0.7
Subtotal                               70.2            38.9             52.3
Contingencies                               21.0              7.8            11.8
Working capital                            227.4              -              43.6
Total                                 318.6            46.7            107.7
23.       TL-e proposed investment will assist the subsector to:  (a) gear up
volume production of new generation products; (b) improve the efficiency of
system assembly; (c) develop higo potential export products; (d) develop prof-
itable electronics products; and (e) develop critical new products to maintain
leadership in system business. Technical assistance programs to facilitate
implementation of the plan and subsector restructuring are included in the
investment package. In addition, funds are included to develop export market
channels, export management, and domestic market channels.
24.       Implementation Plan.  SEAC will face some very complex coordination,
planning and integration problems in implementing the proposed subsector reor-
ganization. In order to ensure the success of the restructuring, a detailed
implementation schedule has been established and is summarized in Annex 9.
25.       Impact Analysis.  Restructuring of the subsector should considerably
improve the operational and financial targets for SEAC in 1995. as shown in
the following table.



- 84 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 8
SEAC - IMPACT OF RESTRUCTURING
1995 as Z
1989          1995           of 1989
Sales Revenue (Y Million)                       710         1,100             155
of which
Domestic (Y million)                       672          1025              153
Export ($ Million)                        8.01           12.9             161
Gross Profit (D of Total Sales)                17.1          19.1              112
Employees (Numbers)                         23,100         19,000
Productivity (Y'000/employee)                  25.7          59.9             233



CHDN A
SHANCHAI DUSTRIAL DEVELOP MET PROJECT
Electrical Apparatus Sabqector
Vajor Features of Factories In the Submictor (1989)
Year of       Not fixed       Saloe
establish-      assets        revenuo     Employment
Name of company                                     aont         ---- (Y million) ----        (no.)        Major products
Component Factories
Shanghai Ron Min Electrical Apparatus Works       1942           14.1          68.6          1,888       Contoctors, circuit broakers, etc.
Shanghai Lixin Electrical Apparatus Works         1947            6.8          29.8          1,867       SCR modium -frequoncy sorvices, etc.
Shonghai Electric Apparatus Use Electronic        1976             4.2          8.8            879       Integrated circuits, photoelectric elo-
Componont Works                                                                                        oents
Shanghai First Switchgeor Works                   1949             8.4         17.1            544       Saall control panels, driving panels
Shanghai Voltage Regulator Works                  1987            2.1          26.8            840       Transtormrs, voltage regulators
Shanghai Machino Tool Electrical Apparatus        1981            12.8         87.0          1,242       Vigital-display dovicos, oachine tool
Works                                                                                                  electrical components
Shanghai Second Machine Tool Electrical           1988            6.4          20.7            712       Machine tool electrical apparatus, simple
Apparatus Works                                                                                        progrm controls
Shanghai Third Machine Tool Electrical            1960            2.6          16.0            627       Machine tool electrical components
Apparatus Works
Shanghai Electronic Material Works                1969             6.6          9.8            628       Monocrystalline silicone
Shanghai Third Switchgear Works                   1960            4.2          12.6            588       Low-voltage switchboards, main el  e nts
Shanghai Jin Shan Electrical Apparatus            1965             3.4         17.1            400       Low-voltage fuse s 
Factory
Shanghai Electric Ceramic Apparatus Works         1949             8.6         18.5            o6o       Lou-voltage fuses, knife switches
Shanghai Electric Apparotus Works                 1987             6.0         28.1          1,606       Driving panols, explosion-proof switchoe
Shonghal Alloy Material Works                     1965            11.7         86.7          1,027       Electrical alloy, carbon alloys
Shanghai Xin-Ho Mold Factory                      1980             9.1          8.8            820       Forming dies, cold di-u
Shanghai Electric Ap;sratus Uso Foundry           1980             1.9          6.'            692       Castings
Works /a
Shanghai Electric Apparatus Pross-Costing         1961            2.1           7.3            U81       Die-cesting parts
Works
Shanghai Hwa-Jian Electrical Apparatus Works    1960              2.1          65.             424       Bak.lito parts, sockets, switches
Shanghai Electric Plating Factory                 1956             1.7          4.8            250       Eloectroplating of parts
Systems Factorli
Shanghai Rectiflor Works                          1946            6.4          40.4          1,619       Silicon rectifier self-control *lo_ nts
Shanghai Hunyl Electrical Apparatus Works         1940            8.2          19.8            820       Silicon rectiflor "achino tool switch-
boards
Shanghai Transformer Works                        1d60            9.7         111.4          1,609       Transformers, load switchos
Shanghai Mine Us  Electrical Apparatus Works    1936               3.8         18.9           6S8        Charging racks, electrical control equip-       >
*ent r.
Shanghai Resistance Works                         1958             8.2         23.0            828       Silicon rectifier wain el_emnts
Shanghai Hoisting Electrical Apparatus Works    1931              4.4          23.1          1,116       Driving panels, main olements                   c 
Shanghai Electric Assembly WUrks                  1912             9.3         49.9          1,373       Driving pansli, low-voltage switchboards
Shanghai Electric Apparatus Use Plastic Works   1956              4.0          16.7            486       Washing machinos, plastic elements
Shanghai Storago Battery Works                    1986            17.8         86.2            774       Storage batteries
_ot4l                                                        166.2         703.1        23.100
La 1983 figures.



ANNEX 5
- 86 -                         Attachment 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electrical Apparatus Subsector
Factories Included Under the New Divisions
1. Low Voltage Electrical Apparatus Division:
-   Renmin Electrical Apparatus Works
-   Lixin Electrical Apparatus Works
-    Third Switchgear Works
2. Machine Tool Electrical Apparatus Division:
-   Machine Tool Material Apparatus Works
-    No. 2 Machine Tool Electrical Apparatus Works
-   No. 3 Machine Tool Electrical Apparatus Works
3. Drive Control Division:
-   Electrical Assembly Works
-    Switchgear Works
-    Rectifier Factory
-   Material Processing and Fabrication Works
4. Transmission Distribution and Transformer Division:
-    Electrical Apparatus Works
-   Resistance Works
-    Transformer Works
-   Voltage Regulator Works
-   Huayi Material Apparatus Works
5. Electronic Division:
-   Electrical Apparatus Use
-   Electronic Components
-   Hoisting Material Apparatus Works
-   Electronic Material Works
6. Infrastructural Division (Transitional):
-   Jin Shan Electric Apparatus Works
-   Electric Ceramic Apparatus Works
-   Alloy Material Works



ANNEX 5
- 87 -                          Attachment 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Electrical Apparatus Corporation
Consolidated Financial Statements, December 31, 1989
A. Consolidated Income Statement
Y'000
Sales income                                                                555,422
Less cost of goods sold                                                   396,421
Gross income                                                                159,001
Less administrative and selling expenses                                   21,900
Operating income                                                            137,101
Other income                                                               10,161
Interest and other expenses                                                38,758
Net income                                                                  108,504
Taxes                                                                      60,654
Net income after taxes                                                       47,850
B. Consolidated Balance Sheet
Y'000                                        Y'000
Current Assets                              Current Liabilities
Cash and bank balance         10,165        Accounts payable              224,321
Accounts receivable          215,593        Short-term borrowings         295,997
Inventories                  353,386        Others                              -
Total Current Assets      579,144           Total Current Liab.       520,318
Fixed Assets                                Long-Term Liabilities
Land, buildings, machin-                    Long-term debt                      -
ery and equipment          203,601        Others                              -
Accumulated depreciation      79,057
Total Liabilities         520,318
Net Fixed Assets          124,544
Equity
Other Assets                   146,672        State funds                   223,981
Special funds                106,061
TOTAL ASSETS              850,360        Enterprise funds                    -
Total EquitylFunds        330,042
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITI                  850,360



- 88 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Printing and Packaging Machinery Subsector
Background and Subsector Organization
1.        The manufacture of printing machinery in Shanghai began between 1917
and 1940. Since then, Shanghai factories have been the traditional leader in
the printing machinery industry in China. They have the b.oadest product line
and the largest output of any competitor in China. Before 1986/87, the 12
printing machinery factories in the printing machine subsector formed part of
the administrative companies of the Light Industry Machinery Corporation
(LIMC). These administrative companies served as extensions of the industrial
bureaus, the level of the government closest to the factories. In 1986, the
printing machinery units as well as the associated administrative personnel
from LIMC were split off and organized into a separate group. This group was
further reorganized in September 1987 into the present Shanghai Printing and
Packaging Machinery Subsector (SPPMS).
2.        The subsector therefore is a relatively new entity.  It consists of
a company and 12 factories, 8 of which make printing and related machines,l/
and 4 of which are component factories. The salient features of SPPMS are
given below. Attachment 1 gives the list of enterprises included in SSPMS.
SSPMS--SALIENT FEATURES, 1987
Unit                    1987
Employees                                           persons                  7,028
Net Fixed Assets                                     Y mln                    55.4
Printing Machinery Output                             sets                   2,401
Domestic Sales                                       Y mln                  111.00
of which - within She.aghai                         Y mln                   27.10
- outside Shanghai municipality           Y mln                   83.90
Exports                                              Y mln                   10.00
Total Sales                                          Y mln                  121.00
Profits before tax                                   Y mln                   38.27
3.        At the beginning of 1989, SPPMS had a two-tiered structure with both
the company and the ractories as independent legal and economic entities in
1/   The printing machinery units manufacture web and sheet-fed offset
presses, small and medium offsets, letter presses and postpress equip-
ment.



- 89 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 2
which each was responsible for its own profits and losses. The company car-
ried out many of the tasks performed by the former administrative companies,
such as setting production targets and plan with the bureau and the factories.
The primary source of income of the company was sales of part of the facto-
ries' products. Because the company was not a corporate entity, it had little
leverage over the factories. That structure did not provide the organiza-
tional coordination and control needed to implement a cohesive subsector
strategy.
Performance and Market Development
4.        Attachment 2 gives the development of major product groups in the
subsector over the period 1983 to 1989. Between 1983 and 1987, output
increased by 7.5 percent per annum, but growth accelerated in 1988 and 1989 to
24 percent, bringing output to Y 185 million. Profits increased at a somewhat
lower rate. Profitability lagged behind output slightly because raw material
prices increased faster than product prices. Over this period, exports
increased from $1.7 million to $3.2 million per year.
5.        The products of the printing machinery sub-sector in China are sold
primarily to the printing and packaging industry. Gross revenues in this
industry are estimated at Y 20 billion ($5.4 billion). By comparison, the
revenues of the printing industry in the US and UK in 1987 were $129 billion
and $7 billion, respectively, in 1987. There are 30,000 printing factories in
China which are divided into several segments: book/magazine publishing,
newspaper publishing, packaging and others. Due to the increased demand for
export packaging, this segment has grown quite rapidly--at over 16 percent per
annum.
6.        SSPMS houses only 8 of 59 major enterprises in China which manufac-
ture printing machinery. Most of the enterprises are under the Ministry of
Machinery Electronics, and a small number are under the Publishing Bureaus.
Their total output is estimated at Y 590 million in 1987. In addition, there
are a smaller number of factories producing about Y 150 million of printing
equipment. Including imports, the domestic market for printing equipment is
estimated at Y 800 million, with an annual growth rate of 10 percent per year
in recent years. Shanghai's share of the industry in 1987 was approximately
13 percent.
7.        The major product line of the qubsector fall into three product
groups: (a) large presses (web offset end large sheet offset presses);
(b) small- to medium-size offsets and duplicators; and (c) postpress equipment
(cutters, binders and blades). Based on current and emerging market demands,
the development of these product lines projects major increases in new prod-
ucts. A whole new generation of products will emerge in offset machines, for
example, to replace imports of these products on the domestic market. For the
large presses, 100 percent of the output in 1995 will be new. For the smnall-
medium presses, the offset machines will dominate over the letter presses.
The anticipated growth, and the greater domestic competition in the printing
machinery industry demand clear organizational structures and aggressive prod-
uct and market strategies by SPPMC.



- 90 -                             ANNrX 6
Page 3
Subsector Capabilities and Competitiveness
8.        The SSPMS group manufactures all types of printing machinery.
Except for sheet-fed offsets, the corporation is strongly competitive in all
the other product groups. In web presses, Shanghai is strong in product
offering and technology. Although there are domestic competitors in Hunan and
Beijing, However, Shanghai's Renmin plant has the best quality and controls
over 50 percent of the market. Renmir. has purchased technology for modern web
presses from the Rockwell-Goss Corporation.  With this, it has successfully
produced two model, and is in a position to expand its position in the market.
9.        Large Offsets.  The four-color offsets represent the top end of the
domestic offset market. Here, there is large unfulfilled demand estimated to
be in excess of 300 machines. The domestic market for large two-color offsets
is better established: approximately 200 units being manufactured per year.
The domestic production of single-color offsets amounts to about 1,000 per
year. Competition is strong for all three types. At the high end of the
four-color market are imports from Heidelberg and other Western companies. At
the lower end there is strong domestic competition. The Beijing People's
Machinery Factory (BPMC) has entered the market with a four-color machine of
fair quality. BPIMC is also producing two-color models. Shanghai Renmin has
been developing a ..ur-color machine based on sophisticated technology pur-
chased from Koenig-Bauer, and the first prototype is expected to be completed
soon. Investment is needed for manufacturing this complex machine.
10.       Small-Medium Sheet-fed Offsets.  The market for medium-size (26-inch
range) two- and four-color sheet fed offset presses is still growing, and
competition is not yet very strong. BPMC is producing a four-color model and
plans to offer a two-color version, but its machines are modeled after a rela-
tively low technology and are not as well designed as the Heidelberg models
being developed by SSPMS. BPMC's prices are also higher than SPPMC. There-
fore SSPMS has established a good foundation in this area.
11.       Duplicators.  The domestic market for duplLiators is substantial,
and demard already exceeds supply. Shanghai produces a machine of good qual-
ity, but in limited quantities. There is only one major domestic supplier
which assembles a knock-down Japanese model, but its selling price is higher
than the Shanghai machine.
12.       Letter Presses.  The current market for letter presses is large.
About 2,400 machines are produced each year, and domestic supply has been
increasing recently. Large producers such as Shaanxu and Nanning manufacture
close to 1,000 presses per year. Shanghai's TY 615 letter press is the domi-
nant machine in the field, and it has a market share of about 60 percent.
Because of its larger scale of operation, Shanghai is more profitable than the
other suppliers. However, as printing shops grow and become more quality-
oriented, the demand will shift from letter presses to offsets. The demand
for letter presses therefore is likely to peak and begin to decline in the
medium term.
13.       Postpress Equipment.  The market for postpress products is large and
stable. Domestic competition is not yet strong and exists only in individual



- 91 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 4
products. Shanghai has the broadest product range and enjoys a very strong
market position.
14.       At present, exports are limited primarily to postpress equipment for
the Southeast Asian market. The current export structure and product portfo-
lio do not do not allow for large-scale penetration of the mainstream printing
machinery markets in the West. The major manufacturers in the world offer a
broad range of high-quality products and after-sales service. The Shanghai
subsector is competitive only in terms of price. However, there are substan-
tial attainable opportunities for Shanghai to expand its position in Southeast
Asian markets and to enter new markets es well.
15.       In overseas markets, Shanghai products serve the low-price, low-
quality and minimum-service segments where end-users place high importance on
price or capital cost. Typically, Shanghai's postp:ess equipment sells at
50 percent less than the price of established brand,. Despite lower labor
productivities, the very low level of wages gives Shanghai a large comparative
advantage with exports. The low-price, low-quality and minimum-service seg-
ments have some export potential, but it is limited. The export strategy
assumes a 10 percent per year increase in exports of products ir, this cate-
gory. The major thrust in exports will be on the formation of cooperative
relationships with for?ign producers which hove established brand, channel and
service basis. For example, preliminary cost estimates indicate that Shanghai
can produce web presses of Rockwell-Goss designs, at lower cost than Rockwell-
Goss could produce them. This type of arrangement will allow Rockwell to use
the coproduced machine in price-sensitive market segments.
16.       The strategy for Western markets will be to cooperate with foreign
partners in selecting mainstream products. Infrastructural support will be
provided by the partner's existing distribution channels and product support
network. For example, shanghai is exploring with AM International to explore
the possibility of production of their duplicators for export markets, where a
potential of $3 million per year exists for Shanghai. The possibility of
Shanghai Renmin plant becoming a low-cost supplier of web presses to Rockwell-
Goss and generate $2.75-3.0 million per year in export revenues by mid-1990s.
The manufacture of labor-intensive components and subassemblies for supply to
OEM assemblers or rebuilders is another opportunity being considered.
17.       "Niche" market opportunities similarly exist in areas such as cut-
ters and binding machines, as these items are not widely produced in the West.
The main competition would come from second-hand presses. By incorporating
imported CNC controls on Shanghai pr.-:uced presses, up to $1.25 million a year
in export revenues could be generated.
18.       More than $250 million worth of printing machinery is imported into
Southeast Asia each year. This demand for printing machinery should continue
to increase with the ever-growing demand for printing material and better
quality packaging. Low-end products in the region have a higher share of the
market than in the West. In order to increase sales to this region, Shanghai
will need to preserve its low-price position and make improvements in product
quality. Already established marketing channels in Hong Kong and Singapore
will need to be strengthened and cooperative relationships will have to be
developed with other companies that are active in the region. For example,



- 92 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 5
Shanghai may attempt to export its four-color offset machine through the
Koenig-Bauer channel for this product in Southeast Asia.
19.       The basic raw materials and components for the manufacture of print-
ing machinery for the domestic market are availabte from local sources. Due
to the higher degree of sophistication and automation required for the export
market, it will be necessary for SPPMC to import electronic controls and other
key components. The quality of castings, particularly thin-willed casting has
been a problem in producing precision printing machinery. However, this is
being addressed under the project. Also, coordination with suppliers must be
enhanced to improve the quality of oil seals and ball and roller bearings.
20.       Shanghai enjoys a large cost advantage in many product areas which
could translate into a good export potential. Given certain changes in its
policy environment, it is estimated that by 1995, the export market for large
presses could reach around $4.0 million, that for medium presses, $7.5 mil-
lion, and that for postpress equipment, $7.5 million. In total these exports
could increase from $3.0 million in 1987 to $19.0 million in 1995.
Restructuring Needs
21.       Tno. structure described above did not provide the coordination and
control needed to implement strategies necessary for resolution of the criti-
cal issues which SPPMC faces for its profitable growth and development. The
company was not performing a corporate role, although it did mediate among the
factories in areas such as raw materials. In most other respects, the company
was simply a bureaucratic layer above the loosely affiliated factories. The
group recognized that its structure needed changing, and has initiated plans
to make it competitive in domestic and international markets. The objectives
are to achieve: (a) greater total financial strength; (b) greater ability to
develop export; (c) improved manufacturing efficiency through product
rationalization and production consolidation between operating groups; and
(d) sharing of technological capability between operating groups.
22.       Organizational Structure.  In June 1989, an integrated corporation,
SPPMS, was formed by issuance of its charter. SPPMS was financially consoli-
dated by March 1990 (see Attachment 3), and by June 1991, the remaining areas
of independent legal status for the constituent factories will be phased out.
Three divisions are proposed under the new structure. These divisions cor-
respond to the three major product groups in which the company already has a
strong competitive position: (a) large presses, (b) small-medium presses, and
(c) postpress equipment. SPPMS includes those factories which have a direct
impact on the production and quality of the end products, as these factories
will be crucial to realize the product-market strategy. Based on this crite-
rion, 10 of the 12 factories form part of the reconstituted company. Two
factories (gear and castings manufacturing units) are not manufacturers of
printing machines but are retained for a transitional period as they supply
critical parts to the machinery manufacturers. Within this organization, the
corporate headquarters, divisions and factories will have distinct responsi-
bilities. The functional plans have been agreed between the Bank and SPPMS.
23.       Product/Market Strategy.  Product and market strategies have been
formulated for each of the three product groups. These strategies are based



- 93 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 6
on extensive analysis carried out by international and local consultants
jointly with the corporation. In large web presses, production would be
geared up in order to capture 50 percent of the projected market using tech-
nology act ired from Rockwell-Goss. For large sheet-fed offsets, most of the
technology investment to produce a four-color machine--the Rapida 104-- has
already been made. In addition, a high-quality machine will be manufactured
which will be superior in quality and performance to that of the competition.
The development of a low-speed machine based on the designs of Rapida 104 will
also be established. Investments will be made to produce around 40-50 low-
speed four-color presses by 1997.
24.       The target for small-medium presses is to capture up to 50 percent
of the domestic offsets by 1997. This translates to a production capacity of
100 two-color and 100 four-color presses by 1995. Since printing units for
the two models are the same, many components and subassembligs can be manufac-
tured in common. The nf r divisional structure will facilitate cooperative
produztion among the various factories. While production is being increased,
second-generation machines incorporating market feedback will be designed and
developed. Based on market demand, one-color, five-color, perfecting and
other models will be addeu to the product line. In the case of the letter
presses, the subsector enjoys a strong market position. However, this is a
mature product which may decline in the 1990s as printing shops shift to using
more efficient medium-size offsets. Short- to medium-term investments to
improve quality and increase production therefore will be made in general
purpose machine tools and assemblies which can be switched to produce offset
presses as shift in demand takes place. Duplicators have been identified as a
highly attractive product with a market which could expand to more than 2,000
sets per year by the mid-1990s. The corporation will gear up to produce
1,000-1,200 units per year, 50 percent of which will be for export markets.
25.       Shanghai enjoys a virtually unchallenged dominant position in the
mar?:et for postpress machines.  To retain its competitive advantage,  invest-
ments will be made to improve quality and increase production.
26.       Operational Strategy.  SPPMC's manufacturing methodologies need
substantial improvement in virtually all dimensions: manufacturing tech-
niques, plant layout and group technology, machine maintenance, quality con-
trol, materials management, production planning and control, etc. Similar
improvements are needed in other management functions and associated informa-
tion systems: marketing, management planning and control, human resource
development, and financial and cost controls, The ambitious strategy of over-
all organizational development and enhancement of operational effectiveness
will be implemented first in a model plant. The experience gained in the
model plant will be transferred to the other groups and individual factories.
Printing Aachinery Works No. 1 has been selected as the model plant.
27.       Investment Plan.  An investment plan has been developed for the
subsector to support the product and market strategy and the proposed resttuc-
turing. The total cost is estimated as follows:



- 94 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 7
SSPMS--RESTRUCTURING INVESTMENT PLANS
Local          Foreign          Total
(Y Million)    ($ million)    ($ million)
Equipment                                   31.1            17.9            23.8
Civil Works                                 18.9             -               3.6
Techaology Transfer                          ^               0.7             0.7
Training                                     0.4             1.0             1.1
Management Systems                           3.6             1.0             1.7
Management Tools                             0.0/a           0.4             0.4
Subtotal                              54.0            21.0            31.3
Contingencies                               16.2             4.2             7.3
Working Capital                             56.9             -              10.9
Total                                127.1            25.2            49.5
/a Approximately Y 23,000.
28.       A carefully drawn out implementation plan for the major activities
of the restructuring plan has been developed and is presented in Annex 9.
29.       Impact Analysis.  On the implementation of the restructuring plan,
the output of SPPMC will grow Y 93.4 million in 1987 to Y 390 million in 1995.
The impact of the restructuring plan on major elements is presented in the
following table.
SPPMC--IMPACT ANALYSIS OF RESTRUCTURING PROGP'Y
1995 as Z
1939         1995           of 1989
Sales revenue (Y mln)                          107           310             290
Export income ($ mln)                          3.2          10.0             313
Profit (Y mln)                                  22            60             273
Number of employees                          5,725         6,150             107
Fixed assets (Y mln)                          51.9           208             401
Productivity index (1987=100)                  123           320             260



CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Printing and Packaging Machinery Subsector
Major Features of Factories in the Subne^tor (1989)
Year of       Net fixed       Sales
establish-      assets        revenue      Employment
Nase of company                                     Mont         ---- (Y million) ----        (no.)         Major products
Ron Min Plant                                       1949            14.7         28.5          1,871       Web offsot and color presses
Yan An Works                                        1947             1.1          8.0            234       Two-color offset presses and step and
repeat machines
Printing Machinery Works No. 1                      1930            11.0         48.3            747        Four-color offset and lotter presses
Printing Machinery Works h . 2                      1931             6.3          6.4            404        Small offsets and ink systems for color
offset and letter presses
Printing Machinery Works No. 3                      1930             3.2           8.8           474        Fedor systems for color offset and lotter
presses, screen printing and Flexographic    q
Ptinting Machinory Work" No. 4                      1940             8.8         18.0            343        Cutting, creasing and stomping machines
Paper Cuttor Works                                  1918             4.2         14.5            516        Paper cutting blados
Book Stitching Works                                1951             4.6         12.8            e68        Book sewing machines, magazine wire
sti tchers,
Printing Machine Foundry                            1949             2.9          6.7            347        Castings for printing machinss
Shanghai Fei Goer Whoel Works                       1939             2.8          4.2            212        Gears for printing machines
qin Fen Machinery Works                             1980             1.2          4.2            285        Parts and subassemblies
Blade Works                                         192S             7.5         34.6            861        Cutting knives for printing maehines
Total                                                          66.2        184.8          7.068/
/a  Includes 102 employees in the Compxny.                                                                                                              >
rt
I-.



CH0M
SHANW! DOUSRIAL DEVELOPMEff PROJECT
Shanachl Printing Machinery Subsoctor
Subsector Output Value
(198-89)
your                         1963                                   198I                                   1987                              1989
Insld    Outide /         Sub-       Inside  Outside pj           Sub-       Inside  Outside /          Sub-      Intide            Sub-
Shanghai Shanh al Expert total       Shangabt Shanghat Export   total        Shanfiha  Shang-ai Export total    Shanghal Export total
Total            2,072     8,8a8     629   9,099       2,063     7,969     510    10,632       2,7i2    8,S90   1:034  12,136       16,767    2717  18,484
Web Offxot          141      679       0    720           82     1,282      11     1,326         160     1,048    183   1,889        1,362      69   1,431
Large Offset         15      608       0    619           21       279       0       800           9       171       0     180       1,112       0   1,112
Medi mOffeut         16      167       0     188          48       177       0       223          44       176       0    220          617       6    623
Duplicator           0         0       0       0           a         0       0         8          23        71       0      94           0       0       0
LAtter Press       188    1,941       64  2,183          198    2,282       81     2,611         269     2,783      60   8,112       3,779    291   4,070
Post Pres            8l      856    269   1,160           s9     19,au     110     1,857          61     1,300    1i8   1,56W        1,299    1181   2,480
p Within China.
It0



-97 -                          ANNEX 6
Attachment 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Printing and Packaging Machinery Subsector
Consolidated Financial Statements, December 31, 1989
A. Consolidated Income Statement
Y,O0O
Sales income                                                              100,935
Less cost of goods sold                                                  75,624
Gross income                                                               25,311
Less administrative and selling expenses                                  1,848
Operating income                                                           23,463
Other income                                                                143
Interest and other expenses                                               4,536
Net income                                                                 19,073
Taxes                                                                    13,223
Net income after taxes                                                      5,850
B. Consolidated Balance Sheet
Y'000                                      Y'00
Current Assets                             Current Liabilities
Cash and bank balance          3,J67       Accounts payable              42,658
Accounts receivable           24,617       Short-term borrowings         34,709
Inventories                  79,087        Others                         2,244
Total Current Assets     106,771           Total fiurrent Liab.       79,611
Fixed Assets                               Long-Term Liabilities
Land, buildings, machin-                   Long-term debt                35,685
ery and equipment          87,512        Others                             -
Accumulated depreciation    35,251
Total Liabilities        115,296
Net Fixed Assets          52,261
Equity
Other Assets                    48.947       State funds                   59,624
Special funds                29,356
TOTAL ASSETS             207,979        Enterprise funds               3,703
Total Equity/Funds        92,683
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY                 207,979



ANNEX 7
- 98-                             Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        The Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) commissioned two reputed
international consulting firms to prepare in conjunction with the Shanghai
Planning Commission (SPC), the Shanghai Economic Commission (SEC), the
Shanghai Instrument and Electronic Bureau (SIEB) and the Shanghai Mechanical
and Electrical Bureau (SMEB) subsector specific restructuring programs for the
following four industrial subsectors.
(a) Shanghai Electronic Component Subsector
(b) Shanghai Precision Scientific Instrument Subsector [Subsectors (a)
and (b) are under SIEB]
(c) Shanghai Electric Apparatus Subsector
(d) Shanghai Printing and Packaging Machinery Subsector [Subsectors (c)
and (d) are under SMEIA].
2.        The consultants, working together with each of the corporations and
the enterprises in the respective subsectors, have submitted their recommenda-
tions. The proposed subsector strategies are aimed at improving the overall
operational efficiency and effectiveness of the subsectors' factories in order
to increase both domestic and international competitiveness and develop
direct/indirect exports. These strategic changes need to be carried out
across the subsector corporations and factories and encompass organizational
development and structure, product/market strategies including development of
marketing and distribution channels, appropriate management planning, control
and information systems, operational effectiveness programs in the manufactur-
ing and technology functions, strategic planning, etc., supported by appropri-
ate policy and institutional reforms. The consultants' recommendations have
been accepted in broad ou'tline by SMG, SPC, SEC, SIEB and SMEIA and the pro-
gram is now ready for impleimentat'-r .  These authorities recognize that the
management of this implementatien project iS an extremely complex task requir-
ing coordination and control of sc-eral activities and the active participa-
tion and cooperation of numerous individuals within many government depart-
ments and the concerned corporations/factories. SIEB and SMEIA propose to
implement this complex restructuiring project with the assistance of the con-
sulting firms who were earlier involved in the preparation of the subsector
strategies.



- 99 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 2
Objectives
3.        The objective of the proposed consultancy services is to assist the
various authorities involved in the implementation if the restructuring pro-
grams through systematic design and successful implementation of the entire
process so as to ensure timely completion of the project activities with mini-
mal disruption of current operations. The ultimate objective is the "success"
of the business enterprises in these subsectors in achieving the goals and
objectives of the industrial restructuring and the design of systems for effi-
cient operations. The consulting work includes bringing about sustained
changes in employee motivation and attitudes through associated organizational
development programs. Practical and transparent incremental benefits should
be realized from an early stage of program implementation to provide motiva-
tion for continuing efforts on the several tasks inherent in the design of
such a complex project. As organization structures and systems are closely
related and interdependent, they should be compatible and mutually reinforc-
ing. To avoid any organizational dysfunctioning, these two tasks are, there-
fore, being integrated and form a part of this consulting assignment.
4.        The primary responsibility for the implementation of the subsector
restructuring projects will be that of the top level Steering Committee pro-
posed to be established by SMG which will be suitably assisted by an inter-
agency Project Monitoring Unit which will monitor the tasks relating to the
subsector restructuring programs, prepare details of policy measures for
approval by the authorities and monitor the technical assistance component of
the project. The subsector restructuring programs will be implemented by the
senior management project implementation committees at the corporation and
factory levels. These committees will designate project leaders who will head
several task forces drawn from concerned senior executives of the factories.
The project leaders will report periodically to their committees. The role of
the consultants in these matters is to support the committees, project leaders
and task forces in the detailed design of project implemei.tation tasks, define
the human and financial resources that are necessary, assist in selection and
composition of task forces and in the development of work plans and activity
scbedules, implementation of these detailed plans and finally, in effective
project monitoring and control systems, and assessment of the effected
changes. It has been recognized that it would be overambitious and disruptive
to cover all the factories in the four subsectors simultaneously. It is,
therefore, proposed to focus the changes initially in model factories in each
subsector and based on the experience gained, to guide changes in the remain-
ing factories. At the same time, a number of short-term improvements can be
made in almost all enterprises, as also certain activities with long lead
times can be initiated which need not necessarily await the outcome of the
major exercises being carried out in the pilot projects. The consultants will
also assist in initiating and implementing such activities. An important
objective is to transfer this expertise in project design and implementation
to the management of the subsector corporations/factories to enable them to
independently continue project implementation throughout the subsectors after
completion of the pilot projects. Additionally, the design of factory orga-
nization structures and management systems requires extensive work and foreign
consultants should utilize to the maximum extent possible, consistent with the
availability of suitable local consulting skills, the services of local
Chinese consulting firms. It may also be desirable to use Chinese consultants



- 100 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 3
where possible to facilitate communication and effect economies in consulting
expenses.
Scope of Services
(a) Assistance in Project Management Design and Implementation
5.        The restructuring proposals focus on a number of managerial and
"software' issues (subsector organization, management systems, operational
effectiveness, production technology, product development and technology
transfer, etc.) as well as hardware aspects.  Plans for implementation of all
these multiple interdependent activities will need to be established, detailed
tasks identified and scheduled as a part of the Master Project Design.                      |
Detailed near-term implementation plans (0-12 months) will need to be drawn up
to incorporate some of the implementation steps which can be initiated immedi-
ately to ensure the success of the entire subsector restructuring program ani
those which have long lead times but involve relatively low levels of funding
and, therefore, can also be initiated promptly. Next, the long-term compre-
hensive implementation plans will have to be established. Based on the man-
power resources required for project iriplementation, the consultants will
advise and assist the corporations in establishing the Project Implementation
Organization and Monitoring Systems. Senior management will be sufficiently
involved in the consultancy so as to unequivocally indicate to the employees
in the subsector enterprises their total commitment and irvolvement in the
implementation of the pro,ect. The consultants will assist in the project
implementation and monitoring process as frequently as is considered necessary
for timely and successful completion of proiect activities.
6.        Beside advice and active assistance in project management, there are
critical tasks forming an essential part of the restructuring program which
constitute the core of this consulting assignment. The consultants will fur-
ther be expected to supplement these tasks with any other aretivities that may
be crucial to the success and effectiveness of these restructuring programs.
These critical design and implementation tasks relate to: (i) organization
structure and development; (ii) marketing and sales distribution; (iii) opera-
tional effectiveness programs; (iv) production technology upgrading; (v) man-
agement planning control and information systems; (-'i) product development and
technology transfer; (vii) consolidation of production and preparation of
feasibility studies. The scope of work under each of these heads is briefly
described in the following paragraphs.
7.        (i)  Organizational Structure and Organization Development.  The
consultants will need to assist the corporation in developing detailed orga-
nization structures at the corporate, divisional and factory levels. "Transi-
tional" structures for business divisions should be designed so as to facili-
tate eventual shift to the divisional concept. This work will include defin-
ing roles and responsibilities, job specifications, optimum manning, and an
assessment of current management personnel to fulfill the new roles.
8.        It is apparent that the implementation of the recommended organiza-
tion structure cannot be done without extensive training at all levels of
management and operations staff. This aspect of organization development is
crucial to the success of the project. The consultants will identify the gaps



- 101 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 4
in managerial and supervisory skill,, prioritize the training needs and assist
in conducting short training seminars (up to one week) particularly for senior
management. Tt?y will also advise on the type, venue and cost of in-depth
training programs of longer duration which would be necessary for development
of the requisite managerial skills at different levels. The actual conduct of
the long duration training courses is, however, outside the scope of this
assignment.
9.        (ii)  Marketing and Sales Distribution.  The strengthening of the
marketing organization and distribution arrangements has been identified as a
priority task. Consultants will assist in developing the organization struc-
ture and in establishing marketing policie6 which are in consonance with the
recommended product/market strategies. They will advise on locating and
establishing adequate distribution channels, sales and services networks for
the domestic and target international markets, including likely joint venture
partners to facilitate exports.
10.       (iii)  Operational Effectiveness Programs.  Several short-term
projects for improving operational effectiveness and aimed at improving pro-
ductivity, reducing costs, enhancing quality, increasing capacity utilization,
etc., have been recommended. Consultants wit' issist in design and implemen-
tation of such operational effectiveness min    es in the subsector factories.
This will include the design and implementat. an of operational system upgrades
including production planning and control, inventory management, preventive
maintenance, quality assurance, etc. Consultants will also review current
plans for capacity expansion through acquisition of fixed assets in light of
likely improvements which may be realized through these operational effective-
ness measures.
11.       (iv)  Upgrading Production Technology/Manufacturing Processes.
Consultants will assist in identifying gaps in production processes as cur-
rently practiced and recommend/implement suitable improvements consistent with
realization of optimum manufacturing costs as related to the volume of produc-
tion.
12.       (v)  Product Development and Technology Management.  Consultants
will assist in identifying acquisition of technical expertise from appropriate
sources for improving products. This also includes assistance in implementa-
tion of measures aimed at improving technology absorption, in-house product
development, and in ensuring that enterprises initiate steps for redesign of
key products and acquisition of new technology.
13.       (vi)  Development and Design of Strategic Planning, Management and
Control Systems. Based on the organization structures which are to be imple-
mented, consultants will develop and design management information systems for
all key management functions including corporate, divisional and factory level
operations control, financial accounting, planning and control, cost account-
ing, materials management (corporate and divisional level), business planning,
market and sales system, manpower planning, performance evaluation and incen-
tive systems, etc. Some of the other subsystems such as production planning
and control, preventive maintenance, quality assurance, stock control, etc. as
already referred to in para. 10 as a part of operational effectiveness mea-
sures are also to be included. The consultants will determine the adequacy



- 102 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 5
and readiness of the factories to implement these systems manually or with the
help of computers. This will also depend on the availability of the required
hardware and software in China.  However. the design ef the systems should beX
such as to facilitate electronic data processing and integration at a later
date.
14.       The product/market strategies recommended for the respective subsec-
tors are based on the macroeconomic environment in China as foreseen today.                  I
It is necessary to institutionalize within the corporations the capability to
response to macroeconomic and business environment changes which will inevita-
bly take place in China and the overseas markets even during the implementa-
tion of the present project. Consultants will assist in establishing the
organization needed for long term business and strategic planning in each
subsector to build full-fledged strategic planning capability. The organiza-
tion of a practical strategic planning unit at the corporate and divisional
level should be implemented in the near term.
15.       (vii)  Consolidation of Production and Preparation of Feasibility
Studies. Conealtants will assist the respective corporations in the drawing
up and implementation of plans for rationalization of products and consolida-
tion of produztion facilities so as to optimize utilization of resources
through elimination, wh_rever feasible, of the manufacture of overlapping
products or components at more than one production facility. Such rational-
ization proposals would involve relocation of physical assets and manpower
from a less efficient to a more efficient site.
16.       Proposals for investments in projects for expansion/diversification
will be considered only after the impact of imiplementation of the above con-
solidation measures have been taken into account. Consultants will assist the
subsector corporations in the preparation of project feasibility studies.
These studies would, among other things, clearly spell out the strategic fit
of the proposed projects with the recommended product/market strategies, the
marketing and distribution arrangemer.ts and the financial and economic viabil-
ity of the project.
Progress Reports
17.       Consultants will submit progress reports once every quarter, clearly
defining the progress made under various activities and including design
details of the organization structures/management systems/operational effec-
tiveness measures proposed and implemented. For day-to-day monitoring of the
project, there will be a frequent reporting system established as a part of
the 'Project Management' design which, however, will be the responsibility of
the respective project managers in charge of various task forces. The consul-
tant's responsibilities will be to see that these project monitoring reports
are prepared by the project managers and submitted on time and to assist and
advise on remedial steps which need to be taken whenever necessary to bring
the project on course.
18.       At the end of each year of the consultancy assignment, the consul-
tants will prepare a summary progress report, which will indicate the adequacy
and capability of the subsector corporation/division/factory in independently
continuing the remaining project management activities and the extent to which



- 103 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 6
external consulting ass.'stance is still needed. Copies of the progress
reports will be submitted to the World Bank for their review and information.
Consultants may also be expected to make a presentation of the progress under
various project components at suitable intervals, when World Bank staff may
participate.
19.       The reports will also summarize the experience and lessons learned
fro- She implementation of these subsector rescructuring programs.
Collaboration                                                                              j
20.       The foreign consultant should present its suggestions regarding the
extent of domestic consulting firms' participation in the work. This involve-
ment, however, should not affect the foreign consultant's responsibility for
the consultancy services.



-104 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scope of Subproject Feasibility Studies
1.        The objective of the subsector restructuring programs is to enable
the corporations and the business divisions reporting to them to increase
international competitiveness and efficiency. Restructuring strategies and
programs have been prepared by the corporations working jointly with interna-
tional consultants. The implementation of the proposed strategies will be
realized through several factory-level subprojects. It is therefore necessary
that the subsector corporations that intend to participate in this project
clearly demonstrate through their feasibility studies that their investments
are in pursuance of the recommended strategies accepted for implementation.
The feasibility studies should include the following aspects.
Past and Current Activities of the Factory
2.        Description and analysis of product groups, markets, main raw mate-
rials and sources, technology, structure of distribution and sales network,
and major constraints that have affected the growth of the factory. The anal-
ysis should be supported by documentation on the past three years' performance
(production, sales, profit, and other indicators), financial history, physical
statistics of the factory, manpower, and so on. Financial statements of the
accounts at the factory level will be necessary for meaningful presentation of
past performance.
Product and Market Strategies for the Business Divisions
3.        Description of the product and market strategy proposed for imple-
mentation by the business division in which the factory will be incorporated
(after the transition period). The strategy should be supported by (a) analy-
sis of current and potential competitiveness of major product groups in the
domestic and export markets;l/ (b) recommendations relating to the product
groups and markets that will form the division's focus to ensure its economic
and financial viability; and (c) identification and recommendation of market-
ing and distribution arrangements and practices.
Proposed Project
4.        Description of the proposed subproject, including an evaluation of
product technology for the existing and proposed product mix focusing on:
assessment of present production facilities with respect to production tech-
nology, manufacturing capability, tool4ng, etc., indicating areas for upgrad-
1/   These should include market- assessment (domestic and export), market
shares as compared to domestic and foreign competitors, cost, price and
quality competitiveness, etc.



- 105 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 2
ing, replacement, improvement and proposed capacity expansion; availability of
material inputs (domestic and imported), recommendations for material substi-
tutions, savings, etc.; availability and sufficiency of utilities and related
infrastructure; examination of existing and proposed licensing and know-how
acquisition; evaluation of quality control and testing facilities and need for
their strengthening; assessment of existing and proposed product development
and research programs as related to the proposed product mix. The project
should also clearly spell out the rationalization and consolidation of prod-
ucts and production facilities that have or will be carried out simultaneously
with the implementation of the project.
Environmental Control Measures and Safety Engineering
5.        Description of existing and proposed measures aimed at complying
with the prevailing environmental regulations as applicable to the factory
includit,g noise, effluents, and so on. The feasibility study should specify
the investments included for environmental control. It should enclose a cer-
tification from SEPA that the proposed measures comply with SEPA's regula-
tions. It should also state that the factory sponsoring the subproject is in
compliance with environmental standards on its current operations. A descrip-
tion of measures to implement safe working practices in the factory should
also be included.
Organization
6.        Description of the existing factory organization structure and man-
power proposed to improve operational effectiveness and efficiency. Reporting
relationships to the divisional and corporate management should be high-
lighted. Organizational development measures and proposals for training of
managers and other employees should also be included.
Management and Systems Development
7.        Analysis and recommendations to strengthen management functions:
marketing (e.g., export and domestic market development, market promotio.in,
sales distribution, pricing); technical (e.g., production planning and con-
trol, plant maintenance systems, industrial engineering, materials management
including inventory control); financial (e.g., financial and cost accounting,
financial planning, budgeting); specific implementation plans for short- and
long-term improvements in management information and reporting system, etc.
Strategic Planning
8.        The feasibility study should also describe the institutional struc-
ture which will be developed at the divisional and corporate level for strate-
gic planning and the inputs that the factory will provide to facilitate such
planning including the proposed organization for monitoring the implementation
of strategic plans should be included.
Subproject and Corporate Analysis
9.        A detailed analysis shall be made of proposed subproject investments
to support the factory strategies in the above areas. Investments that



- 106 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 3
improve the technological capability and efficiency o. the factory and divi-
sion, as well as their international and domestic competitiveness, should be
considered. The analysis should include: (a) a market analysis (domestic and
export); (b) technical aspects, capacity and production program, nature and
price of major equipment and sources of origin, separately in local and for-
eign currency for equipment, technology transfer and licensing, management
system and assistance, training, etc.; (c) estimation of all capital costs,
civil works, physical and price contingencies, interest during construction,
incremental working capital to achieve production upgrading and expanded
capacity; (d) proposed financing plan for the subproject; (e) estimation of
new production costs of the products under the subproject compared with exist-
ing and international levels, unit prices of major inputs and outputs and
comparison with international prices; (f) incremental financial and economic
rates of return of the subproject (based on with and without analysis of the
proposed investment) including a sensitivity analysis of subproject viability;
and (g) income statement, balance sheet and cash flow forecast for the corpo-
ration as a whole. Based on this evaluation, the project should demonstrate
its capability to meet all the eligibility criteria that have been agreed to
for SIDP.
Project Organization and Implementation
10.       A description of the main activities highlighting critical tasks,
accompanied by a project implementation schedule, should be included. The
proposed organization responsible for project implementation, including the
task forces that will be set up for key areas, should be spelled out. The
progress reporting system to be established should also be specified.



CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Major Activities
Major Activities                        1989       1990   J  1991       1992      1993
Approval of charters by SMG             x
Establishment of corporations           x
Appointment of consultants                      ---------- -
Establishment of Board of Directors      ------- ---
Organizational Structure
Detail plans of structure of cor-
porations, divisions and plants                    --- -----
Implementation of structural plans                        -------- -----
Financial consolidation of plants        ----- ----
Plant Restructuring
Restructuring plans of model plant                   --- ---
Feasiblity study of model plant                          -----
Implementation of model plant
subproject                                                   ---  ----------  ---
Restructuring plans of other plants                        -------- -----
Feasibility studies of other plants                            --- ----------
Implementation of other subprojects                                ---------- ---------- --- June 95
Management, Organization and Systems
System organizational plans of cor-
porations, divisions and plants             ---------- ----------
Development  and  implementation  of  MIS                ----------  ----------  ----------
Reorganization of domestic marketing          ---------- ----------
Establishment of export organization    .         ______           -----



- 108 -                             ANNEX 10
CHINA
SHA14GHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators
Indicators                                                      Target Dates
A. General
Loan Effectiveness                                          March 15, 1991
B. Utilization of Credit Component
Last date for subproject submission                         December 31, 1993
Last date for loan withdrawal                               June 30, 1996
C. Implementation of Project
Appointment of consultants                                  January 1991
Enterprise Reform:
Approval of Charters                                      May 1989
Establishment of integrated corporations                  June 1989
Financial consolidation of factories                      March 1990
Establishment of board of directors                       July 1990
Organizational Structure:
Detailed plans of structure of corporation,
business divisions and factories                        June 1991
Implementation of organizational plans                    June 1992
Restructuring Plans:
Restructuring plans of model plant                        April 1991
Feasibility study of model plant                          June 1991
Implementation of subproject in model plant               June 1993
Restructuring plans of other plants                       June 1992
Feasibility studies of other plants                       December 1992
Implementation of subprojects in other plants             June 1995
Management Organization and Systems:
Overall plans for corporation, division and plants        December 1991
Reorganization of domestic marketing                      December 1991
Establishment of direct export organization               December 1992
Development and implementation of MIS                     December 1993



- 109 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation (SITCO)
1.        Institutional Aspects.  SITCO was established in 1981 by the
Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) as a state-owned, nonbank financial insti-
tution.  It Is administered by the Shanghai Municipal Commissicn of Foreign
Economic Relations and Trade and is supervised by the People's Bank of China.
SITCO is governed by a Board of Directors, which consists of a Chairman, ten
Managing Directors, six of whom also serve as Vice-Chairmen, and 45 Directors.
The President is responsible for the day-to-day operations and management of
the corporation. SITCO has five subsidiaries, four of which are wholly-owned,
and three overseas representative offices.l/ Together with its subsidia-
ries, SITCO undertakes a full range of financial services including loan and
equity financing, investments, trust, foreign trade and other foreign exchange
transactions, issue of securities, consultancy, real estate, and other ser-
vices related to Sino-foreign businesses. An organizational chart of SITCO is
attached.
2.        One of SITCO's major strengths is its highly qualified staff.
Eighty percent of its 408 employees have postgraduate, university, or poly-
technic degrees. The corporation plans special emphasis on regular in-house
and overseas training of its staff.
3.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  SITCO was founded with the objec-
tive of implementing the government's policy to open up Shanghai to the out-
side world. As a result, it specializes in investment and trust services
pertaining to the use of foreign capital and the importation of technology.
SITCO especially promotes export-oriented and import-substituting productive
ventures, as well as projects which introduce new technology. The key crite-
ria used for appraising loan applications are: (a) the borrower's ability to
earn foreign exchange or to substitute for imports; (b) the financial and
economic benefits resulting from the project, as measured by rates of return;
(c) the management and financial performance of the prospective borrower; and
(d) the auality of the loan repayment guarantee. The financial criteria used
focus on the cash flow generation of the borrower and project under consider-
ation.
4.        Foreign exchange loans below $3 million and renminbi loans below
Y 10 million are approved by division managers; loans above this limit are to
be approved by the Executive Vice Presidents. All foreign exchange loans are
1/   The four wholly-owned subsidiaries are:  SITCO International Trading Co.;
SITCO Enterprises Co., Ltd.; SITCO International Consulting Co.; and
SITCO International Tendering Co. SITCO owns 43 percent of International
Securities Co., and is finalizing the negotiation of a joint venture
finance company with PCBC, Bank of Tokyo, and Societe Generale (25 per-
cent share for each).



- 110 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 2
reported to the Foreign Exchange Administration Commission. About 30 loan
officers are responsible for promotion, appraisal, and supervision of the
corporation's loan portfolio of over 200 accounts. Supervision procedures
typically consist of site visits and quarterly review of borrowers' financial
statements and project progress.
5.        Operations.  Between 1984 and 1988, SITCO approved over 200 loans,
$1.5 billion equivalent in foreign exchange and Y 1.1 billion in local cur-
rency. Light and textile industries accounted for 47 percent of the loan
approvals, while chemical, machinery, metallurgy, and electronics accounted
for 42 percent. About 95 percent of the lending was to finance modernization
and technical transformation projects. About 50 percent of the loans approved
are small to medium in size, ranging from $1 million to $3 million, and have
maturities of three to five years. The bulk of the lending (95 percent) is
denominated in foreign currencies. The rest of the portfolio (5 percent)
consists of short-term loans denominated in local currency; these are used to
provide limited financing for working capital.
6.        Fifty-eight equity investments were made between 1984 and 1987, $8.1
million in foreign exchange and Y 373 million in local currency. Sixty per-
cent of these investment projects are cooperative ventures with Chinese part-
ners, and 40 percent are joint ventures with foreign partners, mainly from
Hong Kong and the United States. About two-thirds of these investments
involve manufacturing and construction/engineering projects. The other one-
third involve hotels, real estate development, and other services. SITCO's
lending operations between 1984 and 1988 are shown in Table 1 of this Annex.
7.        Financial Performance, Position and Resources.  SITCO has been oper-
ating profitably since its start-up. It was tax-exempt for the five years
between 1982 and 1987, but it began paying income and other taxes in 1988. In
1989, SITCO's average spread on lending operations was 3.3 percent, and the
pretax return on average assets 2.3 percent. These returns are satisfactory,
although they represent a decline from the returns in previous years due to
greater competition and a less favorable macroeconomic environment. Adminis-
trative expenses were 0.4 percent in 1989. The return on the equity portfo-
lio, consisting mainly of dividends, averaged about 11 percent during 1988 and
1989. SITCO's foreign currency loans are generally priced at semiannual
floating interest rates, which are based on the deposit and loan interest
rates periodically quoted by the Bank of China. The corporation appears to
have more flexibility in pricing its loans and in charging penalty interest on
overdue principal payments, since PBC has not yet issued regulations on for-
eign currency lending.
8.        SITCO is very strongly capitalized, with a capital-to-assets ratio
of 18 percent at end-1989. It is owned by SMG, whose capital contribution
totaled Y 775 million at end-1989. The corporation's financial statements are
attached as Tables 2 and 3 of this Annex.
9.        SITCO's foreign exchange loans are partially funded by long-term
borrowings from international banks. In addition, between 1986 and 1988, the
corporation raised Yen 40 billion by floating two bond issues in the Euroyen
market. The first issue of Yen 25 billion carries a ten-year term and a fixed
interest rate of 6.6 percent per annum. The second has a seven-year term, and



- 111 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 3
has been swapped into US dollars at LIBOR less 0.16 percent per annum. SITCO
also has negotiated a $100 million loan from the Asian Development Bank. In
addition, it also obtained a $20 million syndicated loan from Hong Kong in
1989.
10.       Quality of Loan and Equity Portfolios.  SITCO has rescheduled three
loans totaling about $25 million since it started its lending operations in
1986. The corporation claimed that no other overdue principal and interest
payments had been experienced as of December 1989. Most of the joint ventures
in which SITCO had invested were reported to be operating satisfactorily.
Since most of these ventures are in the start-up phase, however, their profit-
ability and potential capital gain or 10s3 will have to be assessed in due
course.



ANNEX 11
- 112 -                            Table 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation (SITCO)
Operations
(Y million)
1984      1985         1986        1987         1988
Approvals
Local currency               1.0       19.6        90.0         83.0        900.0
Foreign currency             4.3      153.9       875.0      1,451.3      2,595.6
($ mln equiv.)            (1.2)    (41.6)    (236.5)        (392.2)      (786.0)
Total                     5.3      173.5       965.0      1,534.3      3,495.6
Disbursements
Local currency               0.6       10.8        60.5        112.3        672.0
Foreign currency             0.4       83.0       156.1        746.4      1,745.7
($ mln equiv.)            (0.2)    (29.7)       (51.7)      (200.5)      (469.0)
Total                     1.0       93.8       216.6        858.7      2,417.7
Outstanding Loan Portfolio
Local currency               0.5        6.9        57.2         83.0        168.8
Foreign currency             2.8       85.1       238.6        982.1      1,718.0
(5 mln equiv.)            (0.8)    (23.0)       (64.5)      (263.9)      (461.6)
Total                     3.3       92.0       295.8      1,065.1      1,886.8



ANNEX 11
- 113 -                            Table 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation (SITCO)
Income Statements
(Y million)
1984  1985  1986   1987   1988         1989
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income from loans          1.7   3.6  44.3   94.6  170.7         304.5
Income from equity investments  57.5  50.5  44.3   60.6   62.4             29.0
Commissions and other income        3.6   8.3  10.7   10.7   13.1          24.0
Total Income                   62.8  62.4  99.3  165.9  246.2          357.5
Expenses
Financial expenses                  0.1   0.4  43.9   92.5  165.6         252.8
Administrative and other
expenses                          0.9   2.0   2.9    3.5    7.0          14.8
Total Expenses                  1.0   2.4  46.8   96.0  172.6          267.6
Profit Before Tax              61.8  60.0  52.5   69.9   73.6           89.9
Income tax and other taxes /a         0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   39.6          47.8
Net Profit                     61.8  60.0  52.5   69.9   34.0           42.1
Ratios (Z)
Average interest spread             n.a.  7.3  15.0    7.0    3.9           3.3
Administrative and other
expenses/average assets          n.a.  0.4   0.3    0.2    0.2            0.4
Return on average assets
(pretax)                         n.a. 11.9   5.5    3.9    2.5            2.3
Return on average equity
(pretax)                         n.a. 16.4  14.2   16.2   11.1           11.0
la SITCO was exempted from taxes during the first five years (1982-87) of
operations.



ANNEX 11
- 114 -                              Table 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRlAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation (SITCO)
Balance Sheets
y ;i1TfI0on)
1984   1985    1986       1987      1988       1989
(unaudited)
Assets
Current
Ca-shand bank deposits                 37.3  149.5    449.2    483.7    622.7           354.4
Short-term loans                        0.5    6.9      57.2      83.0    204.5    1,153.6
Marketable securities                   0.0    0.0    116.7    19.3    279.4           279.4
Other receivables                      57.8   55.6      68.0       77.3      86.0       105.7
Total Current Assets                  95.6  212.0    691.1    835.3  1,192.6    1,893.1
Long-Term
Longterm loans                          2.7   85.0    238.6    982.0  1,683.8    Z.130.3
Equlty investments                    289.8  300.9    313.9    403.3        '29.8       202.2
Fixed assets (net)                      0.7    1.1       5.6        5.7       6.5         8.7
Other assets                           11.2   12.2      49.6      94.4    149.1         128.9
Total Long-Term Assets              304.4  399.2    607.9  1,485.4  2,269.2    2,470.1
TOTAL ASSETS                        400.0  611.2  1,299.0  2,320.7  3,461.8    4,363.2
Managed funds - assets                    0.0    0.0        0.0    169.4    168.4          51.9
xiabilities and Net Worth
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Enterprise deposits                 26.7  106.9       82.0    403.3    413.7          435.5
Short-term bank loans                0.0    5.3       25.3    236.3    311.7         505.7
Other payables                        1.8    4.4      39.6      40.3      64.5        152.0
Total Current Liabilities             28.5  116.6    146.9    679.9    789.9    1,093.2
Long-Terr  Liabilities
External borrowings                   0.0  123.6    771.1  1,143.4  1,833.3    2,454.0
Other long-term liabilities           6.6    2.7      11.2       5.8       4.8         13.5
Total Long-Term Liabilities            6.6  126.3    782.3  1,149.2  1,838.1    2,467.5
Net Worth
VPat-ri7n capital                     300.0  300.0    300.0    400.0    730.3           775.2
Reserves and retained earnings         64.9   68.3      69.8      91.6    103.5          27.3
Total Net Worth                     364.9  368.3    369.8    491.6    833.8            802.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH  400.0  611.2  1,299.0  2,320.7  3,461.8    4,363.2
Managed funds - liabilities               0.0    0.0        0.0    169.4    168.4          51.9
Supplp:ntary
Outstanding letters of credit           0.0    0.0        0.0    365.5    166.8         193.6
Outstanding guarantees                  6.9   32.5      70.3    189.5    240.0          189.2
Total Contingent Liabilities           6.9   32.5      70.3    555.0    406.8          382.8
Ratios
Capital-to-assets (Z)                    91.0   60.0       28.0      21.0      24.0        18.0



SHANGHAI INVESTEl  AND TRUST CORPORATION (SITCO)
Orpnlzso Chwt
(As of December IMS)
Old  ofofo  DO 14
=                          Phims OIVWOO 1)(1
Ri      Mli          (4              CSITO hl emimCo                    ()
.,k~, OdegCExlioF doNM4
vi P_|_Ob              M(}       
u~~h  DMdb.n in8
OmUFw   Ddhgih CUb    (NA.)                         (= o  ha 4s    h
Told Mw__wuit   A Stag      363
,Ars                       :14
r1
|X|
MX,
-,



ANNEX 12
116 -                            Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)
1.        Institutional Aspects.  ICBC was founded in April 1984 as a spin-off
of PBC's former Savings Department and the Industrial and Commercial Adminis-
tration Department. It is China's largest state-owned commercial bank, with
assets of Y 562 billion and capital of Y 32 billion at the end of 1988. The
outstanding deposits and loans in 1987 represented approximately half of the
deposits and loans in China's financial sector. The bank also has the largest
urban branch network, with 24,000 branches and subbranches employing 440,000
people. It essentially controls the country's urban savings deposits and
provides most of the short-term industrial and commercial credit to urban
enterprises.
2.        ICBC's Shanghai branch has 21 subbranches, 13 of which are located
in the city. Eight subbranches were opened in the suburban area in 1989. The
Shanghai branch has three wholly-owned subsidiaries engaging in trust, invest-
ment, real estate and consultancy businesses, plus two joint ventures with
local and foreign partners specializing in leasing activities. The branch
employs about 14,000 people. An organizational chart of the branch is
attached.
3.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  ICBC's Shanghai branch has a spe-
cial credit unit in charge of fixed asset investment loans for technical
transformation purposes. This unit, originally established in 1979 by PBC,
became part of ICBC when the latter was created in 1984. Each of the 21 sub-
branches in Shanghai has a counterpart credit unit which specializes in tech-
nical transformation lending operations. The Shanghai branch's Technical
Transformation Credit Division has 17 staff members, 14 of whom are economists
or financial analysts. Two staff members have attended ccurses on project
financial and economic analysis that were sponsored by the Economic Develop-
ment Institute (EDI) of the World Bank and local academic institutes. As the
branch does not have an in-house engineering staff, it draws on its subsidiary
consulting unit and outside technical consultants to render opinion on the
technical viability of large projects. The branch's approval limit for local
currenlcy loans is Y 30 million (for petrochemical and large projects, the
limit is Y 50 million), and that for foreign exchange loans is $5 million.
The head office's approval is normally required for loans above these limits.
4.        Operations.  ICBC's Shanghai branch primarily operates in local
currency as its international banking business only started up in mid-1987.
Between 1985 and 1989, the branch approved 1,788 projects for technical trans-
formation (i.e., modernization and t.chnology upgrading). Cumulative commit-
ments and disbursements amounted to over Y 6.7 billion and Y 6.0 billion,
respectively, during the same period. The transportation sector received
37 percent of all loans; the light industry and textile sectors, 26 percent;
and the machinery and electronics sectors, 21 percent. The machinery and



- 117 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
electronics sectors received approval for about 350 small loans, totaling
Y 1.4 billion for modernization. The average size of all loans, excluding the
transportation sector, is Y 2.8 million, and the average maturity is about
three years. Loans to finance construction of transportation equipment gener-
ally have maturities of seven to ten years. Table 1 of this Annex shows the
branch's technical transformation lending activities by sector.
5.        Financial Perfonmance, Position and Resources.  Before BOCOM was
reestablished in 1987, ICBC's Shanghei branch was the sole commercial bank and
provider of short-term working capital financing to the city's enterprises.
With a new competitor, BOCOM, which is aggressively promoting a full range of
wholesale and ,etail banking services, ICBC's Shanghai branch is actively
improving its services and expanding its branch network to protect its domi-
nant position. The branch was hard-hit by the inflation-led run on savings
deposits in July and August 1988. During these two months, the branch's sav-
ings deposits dropped by Y 0.2 billion (about 1.8 percent) and did not recover
until September 1988, after infla.ion-indexed interest rates were introduced
for three-year savings deposits.
6.        The branch's profitability was satisfactory between 1985 and 1989;
it had an avecage interest spread of 4.0 percent and a pretax return on aver-
age assets of 2.3 percent in 1989. The branch retains about 20 percent of its
profits and transfers the balance to the head office. It relies heavily on
borrowings from PBC to fill the gap between deposits and laans. At the end of
1988, about 18 percent of the branch's lending assets were funded by loans
from PBC. Other sources of funds include financial bond issues and the inter-
bank money market. In addition to its participation in this project, the
branch also is exploring alternative foreign exchange sources such as loans
from ADB, bilateral government credits, export credits, ar, other short-term
bank loans.
;
7.        The branch's capital ratios are not meaningful since it is a bank
branch without an independent capital base, other than the small amount it
retains of its annual profit.3 (20 percent) to meet operational needs. Finan-
cial statements for the period 1985 through 1988 are attached as Tables 2 and
3 of this Annex.
8.        Quality of Loan Portfolio.  Like most other PFIs, ICBC's Shanghai
branch has not made any provision for bad loans, as there is no regulation
requiring such a provision. Nevertheless, the branch plans to start making
some allowance for bad loans in 1988, largely because PBC has requested it to
write off long overdue loans. At the end of 1989, the arrears of the Techni-
cal Transformation Credit Division were reported to be less than 1 percent of
total outstanding principal; this compared to 1.4 percent at the end of 1987.
About 2.6 percent of loans in this Division were estimated to be affected by
arrears at the end of 1989.



- 118 -                           ANNEX 12
Table 1
CEINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) - Shanghai Branch
Operations (Technical Transformation Loans Only)
(Y million)
Cumulative 1985-89                       Loans
No. of      Loans         Loans         Loans      outstanding
projects    approved    disbursed       repaid       12131/89
Light industries      370         869.40       866.11        499.94        366.17
Textiles              302         883.16       825.67        345.41        480.26
Chemical               86         396.89       394.65        153.15        241.50
Transportation        286       2,455.95    2,221.96         791.36     1,430.60
Machinery and
electronics         347      1,370.54        950.83       230.56        720.27
Others                397         694.34       692.25        288.40        403.85
Total          1,788      6,670.28    5,951.47       2,308.82      3,642.65



- 119 -                            ANNEX 12
Table 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) - Shanghai Branch
Income Statements
(Y million)
1985     1986      1987     1988       1989
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income from loans   1,375.0  3,492.3  4,940.8  5,129.5    7,349.7
Commissions and other income    11.4        5.7       3.2     15.2        64.4
Total Income               1,386.4  3,498.0  4,944.0  5,144.7    7,414.1
Expenses
Financial expenses              622.3  2,644.0  4,015.0  4,122.0    6,313.2
Administrative and other
expenses                      105.1    130.0    171.1    242.2         309.7
Total Expenses               727.4  2,774.0  4,186.1  4,364.2    6,622.9
Profit Before Tax            659.0    724.0    757.9    780.5        791.2
Ratios (Z)
Average interest spread            n.a.     4.4       4.1      4.1         4.0
Administrative and other
expenseslaverage assets         n.a.      0.6      0.6       0.8         0.9
Return on average assets
(pretax)                        n.a.      3.3      2.8       2.5        2.3



ANNEX 12
- 120 -                            Table 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) - Shanghai Branch
Balance Sheets
(Y million)
1985      1986       1987       1988        1989
(unaudited)
Assets
Currqnt
Cash and bank deposits                1,405.7   1,824.5   2,818.3   2,807.8    3,724.9
Industrial loans                     11,319.2  15,255.3  17,643.0  18,670.8   21,807.6
Commercial loans                      4,406.8   5,314.5   5,858.3   6,923.0    7,765.0
Other loans                             222.7      639.4      246.9     258.5       687.2
Total Cur.ent Assets                17,354.4  23,033.7  26,566.5  28,660.1   33,984.7
Long-Term
Fixed asset loans                     1,277.9   2,065.6   2,759.9   3,346.4    3,698.0
TOTAL ASSETS                        18,632.3  25,099.3  29,326.4  32,006.5   37,682.7
Liabilities and Net Worth
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Enterprise deposits                 5,835.6   8,795.5   9,913.7   9,822.0    9,057.4
Savings deposits                    3,448.8   4,316.9   5,486.1   1,273.0    1,454.0
Other deposits                        371.3      537.0   1,075.5   1,651.7    2,043.2
Subtotal                             9,655.7  13,649.4  16,475.3  12,746.7   12,554.6
Interbank borrowings and
other short-term liabilities    3,663.7   3,433.8   _.066.8   3,775.7    4,521.4
Total Current Liabilities           13,319.4  17,083.2  19,542.1  16,522.4   17,076.0
Long-Term Liabilities
Long-term savings deposits          1,970.4   2,377.0   2,972.0   8,090.3   10,510.0
Financial bonds                         0.0      140.0      245.0     235.8       166.3
Borrowings from People's Bank
of China                          2,350.0   3,974.4   4,685.0   5,125.0    7,667.0
Total Long-Term Liabilities          4,320.4   6,491.4   7,902.0  13,451.1   18,343.3
Net Worth (retained earnings)              992.5   1,524.7   1,882.3   2,033.0    2,263.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH   18,632.3  25,099.3  29,326.4  32,006.5   37,682.7



THE NNu L  D O         CL      OF CHNA (ICC)
HAGHA BRACH
Orgumn Chut (Asof p--h 11_8)
R..,                     " 4)                  a 
1 _owl In          r -a
(PS)
~~I Da"         wLuc      .            H      u
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TNi -A .  .  .  
(34)l_   1
b 14eu_Q_-ll_0/k_~~~~~~~~(44
. ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 122 -                            ANNEX 13
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC)
1.        Institutional Aspects.  PCBC was established in 1953, and since 1979
has been the specialized bank responsible for the long-term financing of
fixed-asset investment projects. It is the largest long-term development bank
in China, with assets of Y 165 billion at the end of 1988 (in addition to
Y 177 billion of managed funds for the state investment budget). It has a
nationwide network of more than 3,000 branches, subbranches and deposit
offices which employ about 100,000 people. In February 1988, the bank
obtained government approval to operate a full range of international banking
services. These services include all types of foreign exchange transactions
such as lending, deposit-taking, arranging export credits, and onlending loan
funds under bilateral government credits and from multilateral development
banks.
2.        PCBC's Shanghai branch has 29 subbranches and 76 deposit offices
throughout the municipality which employ about 3,000 people. It also has
three subsidiaries and four ancillary organizations. The subsidiaries are the
PCBC Investment and Trust Corporation, Huayin Investment and Consulting Com-
pany, and Housing Investment Company. The four ancillary organizations are
engaged in real estate, investment research, tendering, and management train-
ing for staff. PCBC also has close ties with CIB, to whom it has provided
considerable staff and management support. The organizational chart of the
branch is attached.
3.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  PCBC's Shanghai branch generally
sets the annual lending targets for its network according to the credit limits
set by SMG for fixed-asset investments. These credit limits cover capital
construction and technical transformation. Subbranch managers are required to
abide by the annual lending targets. Although all projects require prior
approval by the Planning Commission and other government authorities, all
investment loans are also subject to PCBC's internal review to appraise their
financial and economic viability.
4.        About half of PCBC's management staff in Shanghai have taken courses
on project analysis methodology which directly or indirectly were sponsored by
the World Bank. The project appraisal unit has a staff of about 30 experi-
enced engineers, economists, and financial analysts.
5.        Operations.  Between 1985 ard September 1989, the branch app-oved
Y 6.9 billion in loans; one-third of these loans were categorized as modern-
ization or restructuring loans. About 75 percent of the branch's lending
involves long-term project finance; the remaining 25 percent involves working-
capital loans. The average maturity of the long-term portfolio is about five
years. Over half of the branch's lending at the end of 1986 was concentrated
in the energy and raw materials sectors. In the four subsectors addressed by



- 123 -                             ANNEX 13
Page 2
this project, the branch has financed 127 modernization projects amounting to
Y 323 million. Of this amount, Y 215 million was outstanding as of June 30,
1988. Table 1 of this Annex shows the operations of the branch from 1985
through September 1989.
6.        The branch has been actively promoting its new foreign exchange
business since 1986. In 1987 and 1988 it raised $337 million to help finance
the first phase of Shanghai's 300,000 tpy ethylene project. It did this by
atranging several syndicated loans in which more than 40 foreign banks parti-
cipated. In November 1989, the Shanghai branch raised $60 million from a
consortium of Japanese, US and Italian-banks. The branch also is expanding
its business in renminbi bond issues to help clients raise long-term financing
for large industrial projects.
7.        Financial Performance, Position and Resources.  The profitability of
PCBC's Shanghai branch is good. Besides income from lending through its own
resources, the Shanghai branch earns commissions from managing funds entrusted
by enterprises and investment funds apptopriated by the fiscal authorities.
Nonetheless, like all other specialized banks, PCBC's interest spread has been
squeezed by the rising cost of deposits, as it cannot fully pass these costs
on to borrowers. The branch's average interest spread declined from 10.4 per-
cent in 1985 to 5.5 percent in 1987 and 4.4 percent in 1989. Administrative
and other operating expenses were 0.6 percent of average total assets in 1989.
The pretax return on average assets was 2.3 percent in 1989. The branch
retains about 10 percent of its annual profits.
8.        PCBC Shanghai has relatively stable sources of local currency funds:
practically all of its deposits are wholesale enterprise accounts, which are
less vulnerable to inflation-led withdrawals. The branch also has strong
funding support from its head office. The branch's financial position is
satisfactory, and its financial statements from 1984 through 1989 are presen-
ted in Tables 2 and 3 of this Annex.
9.        Quality of Loan Portfolio.  At the end of 1989, the branch reported
Y 31 miillion in overdue principal. This amount represents only 0.7 percent of
its outstanding loan portfolio. Of the total overdue principal, only about
Y 900,000 was rescheduled.



- 124 -                ANNEX 13
Table 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) -
Shanghai Branch
Operations
(Y million)
Cumulative /a
1985 - 09189
Approvals
Capital construction loans                  2,591.6
Modernizationlrestructuring loans           1,797.0
Working capital loans                       1,013.2
Other loans                                 1,462.3
Total                                    6,864.1
Disbursements
Capital construction loans                  2,387.9
Modernization/restructuring loans           1,797.0
Working capital loans                       1,040.9
Other loans                                 1,363.0
Total                                    6,588.8
Outstanding Loan Portfolio
Capital construction loans                  2,296.6
Modernization/restructuring loans           1,377.0
Working capital loans                         257.1
Other loans                                   921.2
Total                                    4,851.9
/a Detailed figures for the end of 1989 are under
preparation and are not yet available.



ANNEX 13
- 125 -                                Table 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) - Shanghai Branch
Income Statements
(Y million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988       1989
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income from loans          101.6  194.4  286.2  573.2  757.3    ',257.3
Commissions and other income          0.1    0.8    0.3    2.0    1.1          21.4
Total Income                     101.7  195.2  286.5  575.2  758.4    1,278.7
Expenses
Financial expenses                   75.9   51.0   72.9  296.4  492.5         932.8
Administrative and other
expenses                            0.0    2.4    4.5    6.4   41.4          73.7
Total Expenses                    75.9   53.4   77.4  302.8  533.9    1,006.5
Profit Before Tax                 25.8  141.8  209.1  272.4  224.5   2272.2
Income tax                              0.0   78.0  115.0  166.2  137.0         149.7
Net Profit                        25.8   63.8   94.1  106.2   87.5         122.5
Distribution of Net Profit
Transfer to head office              25.8   50.8   85.5   95.0   78.8         111.9
Reserves and retained earnings        0.0   12.9    8.4   10.8    7.0           8.5
Employees' welfare fund               0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    1.7           2.1
Total Distribution                25.8   63.8   94.1  106.2   87.5         122.5
Ratios (Z)
Average interest spread               n.a.  10.4    6.6    5.5    5.2           4.4
Administrative and other
expenses/average assets             n.a.   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4           0.6
Return on average assets
(pretax)                            n.a.   3.4    3.2    3.2    2.3           2.3



ANNEX 13
126 -                                     Table 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) - Shanghai Branch
Balance Sheets
(Y million)
1984     1985      1986      1987       1988       1989
(unaudited)
Assets
Current
CashF and deposits with PBC      438.1  1,377.1  1,726.6  1,041.1   1,401.2    2,066.7
Bank deposits                  1,789.0  1,252.0    763.1    905.0   1,419.9    2,738.7
Short-term loans                 171.9    377.7    715.2  1,213.1   1,854.3    2,674.1
Securities and investments         4.3      59.4      69.4    143.5      205.5       258.1
Accounts receivable                 0.1    140.1    175.9       83.8     283.9        750.6
Total Current Assets          Z,403.4  3,206.3  3,450.2  3,386.5   5,159.8    8,488.2
Long-Term
Long-term loans including
current maturities             420.8  2,320.5  3,754.9  6,368.7   4,241.7    5,903.8
Fixed assets (net)                 0.0       3.8       5.4       7.6      11.2         14.8
Other assets                       0.0      99.5      40.0    215.2      181.1          0.0
Total Long-Term Assets          420.8  2,4Z3.8  3,800.3  6,591.5   4,434.0    5,918.6
TOTAL ASSETS                  2,824.2  5,630.1  7,250.5  9,978.0   9,593.8   14,406.8
Managed funds - assets
Loans funded by government
and trust deposits           1,783.5  4,056.4  4,078.7  4,666.4  11,305.0   14,819.4
Liabilities and Net Worth
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Enterprise deposits
Local currency             2,694.1  3,683.0  4,581.4  5,679.7   6,265.7    7,168.5
Foreign currency               0.0       0.0       0.0     30.9      235.5       292.5
Other payables                  73.6    207.1    119.1    126.5         49.5       800.9
Total Current Liabilities   2,767.7  3,890.1  4,700.5  5,837.1   6,550.7    8,261.9
Long-Term Liabilities
Deposits by local banks          0.1    748.0  1,465.8  2,772.4   1,240.8    3,174.2
Loans from foreign banks
(foreign currency)             0.0       0.0      0.0    112.8       575.5    1,644.4
Net Worth
Reserves                            0.0     12.9       7.5      10.0      224.5       272.2
Retained earnings                 56.4    979.1  1,076.7  1,245.7   1,002.3    1,054.0
Total Net Worth                  56.4    992.0  1,084.2  1,255.7   1,226.8    1,326.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET
WORTH                       2,824.2  5,630.1  7,250.5  9,978.0   9,593.8   14,406.8
Managed funds - liabilities
Government and trust
deposits                     1,783.5  4,056.4  4,078.7  4,666.4  11,305.0   14,819.4



THE PEOPLE'S CONSTRUCTION BANK OF CHINA (PCBC)
SHANGHAI BRANCH
Organizatlon Chart (As ot December 1988)
PRESIDENT
Generai Office             (32)
Personnel DMsion             (20)                  Trust & Invest. Corp.  -    (46)
Administration DMslon         (67)                                                                                                     (697
.                                            m       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Sectoral Sub-Branches    (697)
_                                   Education Dlvision ()  _ Huayin Invest & Consul. Co.
Security DMslon            (16)
_ Planning DMvsIon         (18)                 Housngnvest. Co.                                  Speaized Sub-Branches             (142)
nD (20             PCBC Tendering Corp.         (33)
_ I nternati on al Bankidng Dept.  (64)
_ 7  11 DltrictSubXrancbes    |(274)
_4Constuction Economics Dlv.         (47)         1         Buildhng Dev. Corp.        (43)
Financing Divislon         (12)
Accoun_ing DMslcn  (17)         Investment Research Center       (30)
L .         ~ County Sub-Branches            (243)
-i  Computer Management Div.  | (25)
Management School           (12)
e  Project Financing Div.  (31)
Auditing DivisIon       l (2)
Supervision DIvision      } (5)
H  System Retorm Division     (4)                                                                                                                          >
Total Management & Staff: 1,906
EK/W44268c



- 128 -                            ANNEX 14
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ban!. of Communications (BOCOM) - Shanghai
1.        Institutional Asr*cts.  BOCOM was first established in 1908 in
Beijing to provide long-term finance to the transportation rnd telecommunica-
tions sectors. The bank was nationalized upon the founding of the FRC in
1949, and from the 1950s to 1986 its operations in China were suspended. To
support China's economic reform and to improve banking and financial services,
BOCOM was reestablished by the State Council in 1986 and relocated to
Shanghai. The bank is now classified as a nationwide comprehensive bank shar-
ing similar status with other specialized banks under the supervision of the
PBC. It may conduct the full range of commercial banking business in local
and foreign currencies, and offer other financial services such as trusts,
investments, insurance, leasing, guarantees, and issuance and trading of
securities. In April 1987, tbe restructured BOCOM officially opened for busi-
ness.
2.        BOCOM is the first bank in China since 1949 to adopt a share capttal
system. Fifty percent of its capital is held by the PBC on behalf of the
state; the other 50 percent is held by local governments and enterprises.
Private individuals may hold the bank's shares up to 10 percent of the paid-in
capital in aggregate. As of December 31, 1989, the bank had Y 35.8 billion in
assets and Y 3.0 billion in paid-in capital. In December 1988 it had a
nationwide network of eight branches and 24 subbranches.
3.        The Shanghai branch began operating in October 1986, although a full
range of services was not offered until 1987. Unlike the other banks in the
project, BOCOM's Shanghai branch is a legal entity distinct from its head
office. The shareholders of the branch are: the central government (40 per-
cent), SMG (40 percent) and local enterprises (20 percent). The branch has
seven subbranches which are independent entities with joint shareholdings held
by the state and local governments. All these subbranches are located in
Jiangsu and Z'ejiang.  The branch also has four business offices located in
four city districts. In September 1988, the branch set up a wholly-owned
subsidiary to specialize in securities. The branch employs about 860 people.
An organizational chart of the branch is attached.
4.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  The branch manager may approve
working-capital loans up to Y 15 million and fixed-asset investment loans and
leasing accounts up to Y 5 million. For foreign exchange loans and guaran-
tees, the manager's approval limit is $2 million equivalent. Equity invest-
ments below Y 2 million may be approved by the manager. Above these limits.
all loan and investment proposals have to be approved by a branch credit com-
mittee composed of the manager, deputy manager, and department heads. The
branch's approval limits are Y 30 million for local currency loans and $5
million for foreign currercy loans. Head office approval is normally required
for loans above these limits.



- 129 -                            ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        BOCOM has an appraisal staff of about 20 for its long-term lending
operations. The branch's appraisal procedures are well defined. They consist
of three main phases: (a) preliminary assessment of the prospective borrow-
er's financial resources and the status of various government approvals;
(b) comprehensive analysis of the borrower's operations, and the project's
financial and social/economic viability, including appraisal of the market,
technical and production aspects; and (c) final proposal for management
approval.  An evaluation of the guarantor and/or collateral is also mandatory
in the loan appraisal process. Loan officers are responsible for the supervi-
sion of their accounts. Generally, supervision is carried out by reviewing
monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements submitted by borrowers, and
by making periodic visits to clients.
6.        Operations.  Since it began operations in 1986, the Shanghai branch
of BOCOM has been growing very rapidly. Within the first year of operations,
it collected Y 1.3 billion in deposits from new enterprise accounts and
extended Y 1.6 billion in credits. At the end of 1989, the branch had a
short-term and long-term loan portfolio of Y 5.8 billion and deposits of Y 2.8
billion. About 80 percent of the branch's lending assets are short-term, with
an average maturity of 2.5 years. Textiles and light industries are the two
most active borrowing sectors; these sectors account for about 20 percent of
the branch's total lending. Besides setting up a securities subsidiary com-
pany, the branch has also invested in a dozen industrial and financial enter-
prises in the city. Total equity investments registered Y 74.0 million at the
end of 1989.
7.        The growth of the branch's international banking business also is
impressive. Between 1987 and September 1988, the branch had approved $193
million in foreign currency loans and disbursed $143 million of it.  About
90 percent of the foreign currency lending is medium-term, with average
maturities of three to five years. In 1988, the branch received a mandate
from the SMG to raise $600 million. This would help finance the Huangpu River
Bridge project and several priority industrial development projects in the
city. A summary of the b-anch's operations is shown in Table 1 of this Annex.
8.        Financial Performance, Position and Resources.  When it was reestab-
lished, BOCOM was given a three-year tax exemption by the government. The
Shanghai branzh earned a profit of Y 37.9 million in its first year of opera-
tion. Profits for 1989 were estimated to be ' 299 million, representing a
strong return on average assets of 5.4 percent.
9.        BOCOM Shanghai is one of the first banks in China since 1949 to
raise capital by issuing shares to enterprises. The first share issue was
made in early 1987; it successfully raised Y 100 million. To support further
growth, the branch plans to increase its capital base through a second share
issue in the same amount during the fJrst half of 1989. A modest dividend of
2.5 percent on paid-in capital was paid in 1988; it amounted to Y 13.3 mil-
lion. The branch plans to plou back most of its profits for growth in the
next several years. In addition to capital resources, the branch has also
mobilized local, medium-term resources by issuing financial bonds with maturi-
ties of up to three years.  Its capital adequacy position as of the end of
1989 was strong, with a capital-to-assets ratio of 15 percent. Financial



- 130 -                             ANNEX 14
Page 3
statements for 1987, 1988 and 1989 (unaudited) are presented In Tables 2 and 3
of this Annex.
10.       Quality of Loan and Equity Portfolios.  The branch reported Y 107
million in overdue principal at the end of September 1988; this amount repre-
sented about 3.5 percent of the loans outstanding then. All of the arrears
were less than 60 days overdue, and 40 percent were 30-60 days overdue. Only
a few loan reschedulings were estimated. However, no systematic statistics
have been collected on rescheduling or on overdue interest payments



ANNEX 14
- 131 -                               Table 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI -NDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of Communications (BOCOM) - Shanghai Branch
Operations
(Y million)
9 months
1987            1988            1988
Approvals
ocal currency
Short-term                                 n.a.        4,117.0              n.a.
Long-term                                292.0            185.0             n.a.
Subtotal                                  n.a.        4,302.0              n.a.
Foreign currency
Short-term                                11.1             74.8             n.a.
Long-term                                125.8            500.6             n.a.
Subtotal                                136.9           575.4              n.a.
Foreign currency (S mln equiv.)             (36.8)         (154.7)            n.a.
Total                                     n.a.        4,877.4              n.a.
Disbursements
Local currency
Short-term                                 n.a.        3,705.0              n.a.
Long-term                                270.2            166.0             n.a.
Subtotal                                  n.a.        3,871.0              n.a.
Foreign currency
Short-term                                 7.4             56.3             n.a.
Long-term                                 88.8            376.6             n.a.
Subtotal                                 96.2           432.9              n.a.
Foreign currency ($ mln equiv.)             (25.9)         (116.4)            n.a.
Total                                     n.a.        4,303.9              n.a.
Outstanding Loan Portfolio
Local currency
Short-term                             1,309.0         2,162.8          2,349.1
Long-term                                270.1            413.7           376.9
Subtotal                              1,579.1         2,576.5          2,726.0
Foreign currency
Short-term                                 7.4             21.6            28.3
Long-term                                117.3            484.2           636.2
Subtotal                                124.7           505.8            664.5
Foreign currency ($ mln equiv.)             (33.5)         (136.0)         (178.6)
Total                                 1,703.8         3,082.3          3,390.5



-                                ANNEX 14
- 132 -                       Table 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of Communications (BOCOM) - Shanghai Branch
Income Statements
(Y million)
1987/a        1988            1989
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income from loans                94.1         226.7             n.a.
Commissions and other income                2.8         81.1             n.a.
Total Income                           96.9         307.8           616.0
Expenses
Financial expenses                        34.2          79.1             n.a.
Administrative and other expenses          24.8         97.3             n.a.
Total Expenses                         59.0         176.4           317.0
Profit Before Tax                      37.9         131.4           299.0
Income tax /b                                 0.0          0.0             0.0
Net Profit                             37.9         131.4           299.0
Ratios (Z)
Average interest spread                     n.a.         5.4             n.a.
Administrative and other expenses/
average assets                           n.a.          3.0             n.a.
Return on average assets                   n.a.          4.0             5.4
Return on average equity                   n.a.         18.5            33.5
/a 1987 results include renminbi operations only. Foreign currency opera-
tions in 1987 were small
/b BOCOM is exempted from income tax during the first three years of opera-
tions.



- 133 -                            ANNEX 14
Table 3
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank of Communications (BOCOM) - Shanghai Branch
Balance Sheets /a
(Y million)
1987     _988       1989
(unaudited)
Assets
Current
Cash and deposits with PBC                        349.9    302.5      } 60.
Bank deposits                                     197.0    230.8      }
Short-term loans - Local currency               1,309.0  2,349.1        4246.0
Short-term loans - Foreign currency                 7.4     28.3   }
Subtotal                                       1,316.4  2,377.4    5,106.0
Other receivables                                 164.6       0.0       65.0
Total Current Assets                           2,028.0  2,910.6    5,171.0
Long-Term
Loans - Local currency                            270.1    376.9       562.0
Loans - Foreign currency                          117.3    636.2       995.0
Subtotal including current maturities            387.5  1,013.1    1,557.0
Equity investments                                  8.4      36.7       74.0
Fixed assets (net)                                  2.8      22.8       30.0
Other assets                                       30.4      78.5      195.0
Total Long-Term Assets                           429.0  1,151.0    1,856.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                   2,457.0  4,061.6    7,027.0
Managed Funds - Assets
Loans outstanding                                 218.3  1,727.8    1,736.0
Other assets                                      114.0    386.4       740.0
Total                                            332.2  2,114.2    2,476.0



134 -                   ~~~~~ANNEX 14
Table 3
Page 2
1987     1988       1989
(unaudited)
Liabilities and Net Worth
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Enterprise deposits - Local currency          1,243.0  1,974.2   } 2,670.0
Enterprise deposits - Foreign currency           49.6    393.8   }
Savings deposits                                 12.0     58.7       161.0
Subtotal                                       1,304.6  2,426.7    2,831.0
Bank deposits                                   174.3    317.8       779.0
Short-term bank loans - Local currency          150.0    175.5       883.0
Short-term bank loans - Foreign currency         75.2    158.9       421.0
Subtotal                                         225.2    334.4    1,304.0
Other payables                                   15.3     57.9       140.0
Total COrrent Liabilities                      1,719.4  3,136.8    5,054.0
Long-Term Liabilities
Financial bonds                                  40.0     21.5        9 944.0
Other long-term liabilities                      55.8    '27.8      }
Total Long-Term Liabilities                       95.8    149.3       944.0
Net Worth
Paid-in capital                                   603.9    623.9       624.0
Reserves and retained earnings                     37.9    151.6       405.0
Total Net Worth                                  641.8    775.6    1,029.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH                2,457.0  4,061.6    7,027.0
Managed Funds - Liabilities                         332.2  2,114.2    2,476.0
Ratios
Capital-to-assets (Z)                                26.0      19.0         -
/a Including renminbi and foreign currency operations.



ANNEX 14
Attachment 1
- 135 -
WEX             1             I -}
o~ ~ g  E                 I   I EI E  X       II;    
|}~~~~I i.5



ANNEX 15
- 136 -                           Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
China Investment Bank (CIB)
'.        Institutional Aspects.  CIB was established in 1981 as a state-owned
development finance institution. Administratively, the bank is under the
leadership and supervisory responsibility of MOF. It is closely tied to PCBC,
which has provided CIB with considerable staff and management support. At the
end of 1988, CIB had total assets of Y 6.7 billion. The bank has 56 branches
and subbranches nationwide, employing about 1,000 staff.
2.        The Shanghai branch began in 1982 and is one of CIB's very first
branches. It has been subject to increasing competition from the specialized
banks and new finance companies which have entered the local financial sector.
The branch draws most of its managers and staff from PCBC in Shanghai and
cooperates closely with it at all levels of its operations. The branch has
one main business office in Shanghai and employs 69 people. An organizational
chart of the branch is attached.
3.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  The branch operates in accordance
with the operational and financial policies of the head office. Loans below
$3 million are approved at the branch level; loans above this limit are nor-
mally approved by the head office. Its former senior economist co-authored
the Appraisal Manual for Industrial Credit Projects, which has been widely
circulated and applied in all the specialized banks and many government agen-
cies. The branch has a project appraisal and supervision staff of 14 experi-
enced economists and accountants, and one engineer. As one of the oldest
branches of CIB, which has had a long relationship with the World Bank, the
Shanghai branch has extensive experience in project appraisal.
4.        Operations.  Between 1985 and September 1989, 63 loans were
approved, consisting of $76 million in foreign currency loans and Y 90 million
in renminbi financing. Textiles and light industry are the main borrowing
sectors, accounting for over half of all loans approved by the branch. Most
of the branch's loans have maturities of five to seven years. Beginning in
1988, the branch has also provided limited financing for working capital.
Total short-term renminbi loans disbursed in 1989 amiounted to Y 24 million.
Its operations for the 1985-89 period are shown in Table 1 of this Annex.
5.        Financial Performance, Position and Resources.  The Shanghai
branch's pretax return on average assets was 3.8 percent in 1989. The branch
transfers all of its annual profits to the head office. Prior to 1987, the
branrh's operations were funded by the head office, free of interest expenses.
From 1987 forward, the head office has been charging interest on all appropri-
ated funds. As of December 1989, the branch's cost of funds from the head
office was 7.2 percent per annum and its onlending spread was about 1.3 per-
cent. The branch's average interest spread in 1989 was 3.5 percent.



- 137 -                              ANNEX 15
Page 2
6.        The branch has relied exclusively on funding from the head office.
It has practically no deposit base, other than the temporary deposits placed
by clients to pay for local currency expenditures incurred by projects
financed by the branch. Nevertheless, the branch Is exploring alternative
sources of funding, both in renminbi and in foreign currency. In 1989, it
obtained $12.5 million in short-term borrowing at LIBOR from a group led by
the Bank of Tokyo. Its financial position is satisfactory. Financial state-
ments for the 1984-89 period are shown in Tables 2 and 3 of this Annex.
7.        Quality of Loan Portfolio.  Of the 63 loans approved during the last
five years, only two loans have been rescheduled. As of December 1989, there
was no overdue principal or interest.



ANNEX 15
- 138 -                             Table 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
China Investment Bank (CIB) - Shanghai Branch
Operations
(Y million)
1985       1986        1987        1988        1989
Approvals
No. of projects approved    16             4          17          14          12
Local currency                  4.8        4.7        43.8        36.5         -
Foreign currency               16.2       29.1       108.0        64.0        74.4
($ min equiv.)              (5.8)      (7.8)      (29.0)       (17.3)      (15.8)
Total                      21.0       33.8       151.8        100.5        74.4
Disbursements
Local currency                 25.5       30.2        43.9        43.8        23.5
Foreign currency               17.1       21.2        71.0        97.4       114.5
($ mln equiv.)              (6.1)      (5.7)      (19.1)       (26.3)      (24.3)
Total                      42.6       51.4       114.9        141.2       138.0
Outstanding Loan Portfolio
Local currency                 25.4       29.3       119.1       156.5       166.4
Foreign currency               14.6        8.9        80.7       169.2       Z91.5
($ mln equiv.)              (5.2)      (2.4)      (21.7)       (45.6)      (61.9)
Total                      40.0       38.2       199.8        325.7       457.9



ANNEX 15
- 139 -                              Table 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
China Investment Bank (CIB) - Shanghai Branch
Income Statements
(Y million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988         1989
(unaudited)
Income
Interest income from loans       0.2    2.8    7.9   13.4   25.5           58.5
Commissions and other income   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4    2.1              9.0
Total Income                  0.2    2.8    7.9   13.8   27.6           67.5
Expenses
Financial expenses                0.0    0.1    1.7    9.7   17.6          43.0
Administrative and other
expenses                       0.1    0.2    0.6    1.0    1.6            2.1
Total Expenses                0.1    0.3    2.3   10.7   19.2           45.1
Profit Before Tax             0.1    2.5    5.6    3.1    8.4           22.4
Income tax /a                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.6          12.3
Net Profit (transferred       0.1    2.5    5.6    3.1    3.8           10.1
to head office)
Ratios (Z)
Average interest spread           n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   2.8    2.8           3.6
Administrative and other
expenses/average assets        n.a.   0.4    0.6    0.5    0.4            0.4
Return on average assets
(pretax)                       n.a.   5.1    5.7    1.6    2.3            3.8
(a CIB was exempted from income tax during the first five years (1983-87) of
operations.



ANNEX 15
- 140 -                                     Table 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
China Investment Bank (CIB) - Shanghai Branch
Balance Sheets
(Y million)
1984   1985    1986    1987    1988         1989
(unaudited)
Assets
Current
Cash and bank deposits                  19.4   26.1    31.0    27.4    31.6           86.9
Short-term loans (local currency)        0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0    52.7       124.3
Other receivables                        0.0    0.0      0.0      0.3    35.0         50.9
Total Current Assets                   19.4   26.1    31.0    27.7   119.3         262.1
Long-Term
Loans (foreign currency)                 5.0   47.2    91.9   245.9   326.2         459.0
Fixed assets (net)                       0.0    0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2         0.5
Other assets                             0.0    0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0         0.6
Total Long-Term Assets                  5.0   47.4    92.1   246.0   326.4         460.1
TOTAL ASSETS                           24.4   73.5   123.1   273.7   445.7         722.2
Liabilities and Net Worth
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Enterprise deposits                    0.0    0.3      5.3    41.2    41.3        134.3
Other payables                         0.0   10.7      3.9      8.8    36.6        98.1
Total Current Liabilities               0.0   11.0      9.2    50.0    77.9        232.4
Long-Term Liabilities
Loans from head office                24.4   60.0   108.3   220.5   359.1         466.0
Net Worth
Reserves                                 0.0    0.0      0.0      0.2      0.3         1.4
Net pr, tt for the year (payable
to the nead office)                    0.1    2.5      5.6      3.0     8.4        22.4
Total Net Worth                         0.1    2.5      5.6      3.2     8.7        23.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH        24.5   73.5   123.1   273.7   445.7         722.2
Supplementary
Outstanding letters of credit and
guarantees                             0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0    25.0        19.6



ANNEX 15
- 141 -                      Attachment 1
C         INVESTMENT BA  (CIB)
SHANH   BRANCH
Organlkbn ChWt (As of Decembe1r N)
Pido (1)            P     ,dd   (1)
A{-uft  (1)       A==  D     '" L
_    .-    ~   ~(1)             _M DMQ,(1



- 142 -                              ANNEX 16
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements
($ million)
Period                    Amount                 Cumulative
FY91                July-December                  3.0/a                     3.0
January-June                   2.0                      5.0
FY92                July-December                  7.5                      12.5
January-June                  10.0                     22.5
FY93                July-December                 20.0                      42.5
January-June                  20.0                     62.5
FY94                July-December                 24.0                      e6.5
January-June                  18.0                    1)4.5
FY95                July-December                 16.0                     120.5
January-June                  13.5                    134.0
FY96                July-December                 13.0                     147.0
January-June                   3.0                    150.0
/a This amount includes an estimated $2.0 million to be tranasferred to the
Special Accounts.



1I.~~~~~) ~ANNEX  17
- 143 _Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Progress Reports for the Project
Introduction
1.        The Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) recognizes the importance of
the project to the successful restructuring of the four subsectors under the
project. To this end, SMG will take all necessary steps to improve the effi-
ciency and competitiveness of the four subsectors. In particular, SMG will
establish a Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) to monitor the progress of the
project in reaching its objectives. In addition, the PMU will forward to the
Bank regular reports on the progress of the project. Progress of the project
should be judged by the:
(a) progress of technical assistance under the project;
(b)  success of the training program under the project;
(c) progress of management development vis-a-vis agreed benchmarks;
(d) progress of utilization of loan proceeds for the project; and
(e) impact of the above measures and investments on the financial per-
formance of the corporations.
2.        First, this note outlines the format and frequency of the progress
reports in each of these areas that are to be prepared by the PMU. The
reports will help to: monitor progress of the project and identify any steps
needed to facilitate project implementation.
Technical Assistance
3.        As per the agreed terms G.^ reference for their assignments, consul-
tants will prepare progress reports every quarter defining the progress made
in each of the seven areas covered in their terms of reference, i.e.:
(a) organizational structure and development;
(b) marketing and sales distribution;
(c) operational effectiveness;
(d) upgrading manufacturing technology
(e) product development and technology management;
(f) development of strategic planning, management and control system;
and



- 144 -                             ANNEX 17
Page 2
(g) conso.'.idation of production and preparation of feasibility reports.
The PKU should regularly review these reports and ensure that these reports
are forwarded to the Bank each quarter.
Training Program
4.        Every 12 months, the PMU should prepare a report on the training
being supported under the project, including a list for each corporation, the
persons involved, countrieb visited, purpose and duration of the visits,
training costs, and description of the specific training involved.
Progress of Management Development
5.        Attachment 1 sets out the key dates pertaining to management devel-
opment under the project. Every six months, the PMU should report on the
status of each indicator including any remarks on reasons for the deviation of
the actual from target dates.
Loan Utilization
6.        Attachment 2 provides a format for monitoring utilization of loan
proceeds of the project. These reports would be prepared every quarter by
each participating financial institution (PFI). The PMU should regularly
review these reports and ensure that they are forwarded to the Bank.
Impact Analysis
7.        Each year the subsector corporations should prepare the attached
table (Attachment 3) on various quantitative measures of its operational per-
formance for the current year as compared to the previous three years. The
PMU should regularly review thetla reports and ensure that they are forwarded
to the Bank. Each PFI will also submit the following reports through the PMU
to the Bank: (a) semiannual reports on progress of all subprojects under
implementation, providing information on project cost, time schedule and
degree of project completion, production, sales, exports, and profits; and
comparing these with the projections in the appraisal reports (with proper
adjustment for inflation to ensure comparability); (b) annual reports on all
completed projects, during the first three years following project completion,
providing information on production, sales, exports and profits; and comparing
these with the projections in the appraisal reports (with proper adjustment
for inflation to ensure comparability).



- 145 -                          ANNEX 17
Attachment 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Dates Pertaining to Management Development
Enterprise Reform:
Approval of Charters                                           April 1989
Establishment of integrated corporations                       June 1989
Est,iblishment of board of directors                           July 1990
Financial consolidation of factories                           December 1990
Organizational Structure:
Detailed plans of structure of corporation,
business divisions and factories                             June 1991
Implementation of organizational plans                         June 1992
Restructuring Pians:
Restructuring plans of model plant                             April 1991
Feasibility study of model plant                               June 1991
Restructuring plans of other plants                            June 1992
Implementation of subproject in model plant                    June 1993
Feasibility studies of other plants                            December 1992
Implementation of subprojects in other plants                  June 1995
Management Organization and Systems:
Overall plans for corporation, division and plants             December 1991
Reorganization of domestic marketing                           December 1991
Establishment of direct export organization                    December 1992
Development and Implementation of MIS                          December 1993



CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Summary of Utilization of Loan Proceeds
For Quarter Ending:                            PFI:
(1) Utilization of Funds
World Bank funds        Other funds       World Bank funds        Other funds        World Bank funds        Other funds
(S'OOO equivalent)         (Y'OOO)        (S'OOO equivalent)         (Y'OOO)         (3000 equivalent)         (Y'O0O)
Co.mitment
Disbursement
Repayment
(2) Procurement Durinq This Quarter (Usinq World Bank Funds Only)
Procurement                 Suppliers from whom
Item. procured and supDlier               Cost             Subprolect no.               method                quotes and bids were obtained
ox
M1-A
D -J
rt



- 1471 -ANNEX 17
Attachment 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operational Performance Indicators
Corporation
Year
One year   Two years   Current
be -re     before       year
Sales Revenue (Y million)
of which:
Domestic
In Shanghai
Elsewhere in China
List domestic sales in each of
the top 3 provinces
Exports ($ million)
List export sales by country of
distination
Market Share Within China
List share in each of the main product
groups
Gross Profit
Net Profit
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets
Employment
Productivity (output in Y'OOO/employee)



- 148 -                             ANNEX 18
CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A-1 Final Report, Booz, Allen & Hamilton on the Shanghai Electronic Compo-
nents Subsector, 1989
A-2 Final Report, Booz, Allen & Hamilton on the Shanghai Precision and Scien-
tific Instrument Subsector, 1989
A-3 Final Report, Boston Consulting Group on the Shanghai Printing Machinery
Subsector, 1989
A-4 Final Report, Boston Consulting Group on the Shanghai Electrical Appara-
tus Subsector, 1989
A-5 Revised Charters (in Chinese) for the integrated corporations that were
presented at negotiations
A-6 Official Shanghai Municipal Government Statement on Development Strate-
gies and Policies in the SIDP Subsectors
A-7 Documentation on the four subsectors provided by the related corporations
and bureaus



CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of Sharing Relationship of
Subsector Corporation With Various Levels of Government
SIAI1 GO=
as~~~~~~~~n'
I   I   l   l         l           l          l           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi GDW IWUL
_ F1U Cf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIA    II    t I                                       mmstC
_ _
hbsincybas
r~~ ~~~~~~ -   --
2660IMMUS   o]ktn K1                                       c-u
,itSmS    suss      u*"t S. uuS                                *I
1I



CHINA
SHANGHAI INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OrEanization Chart of
Shanghai Mechanical & Electrical industries Administration (SMEIA)
I   S      Ih  c M i  T'Fl C*rpreatloa (STC)
3.  Shage IFaetaeuu Corporatioin (SFC)
. s.  hangha  Searig Crpratla  (OC)
4.  Shanghai Hydre"lic A Fheatic C      _anemt Cerpewetian (SICC)
-S   Sheghal Iht l6matry Machinry C a-y  (SLIK)
- . ShanaIE1 tctic MachTasty (Greup) Cerp*rettie  (UM)
7.  C=lireSeep of Shangha  (COS)
-C Sega_l Electric _prau  (G0u) C-r  rtlee (5t1C)
-.  Shnga  _ ri tiagW md Pachaglag Mucl_tiy Cerpertian (5PC)
-1S.  Shghl  Gant.  bI Mac ley  oaIato  Cer.rtie  (SOMC)
-11.  Shanghai Y lre S Vacuum Iqulymant Cepsaratiorn (SYEC)
Planning & Development Dept.                                                                                                                           too (hanghai  at1ra Cmcl" Maciey C l  CMC)
Construction 1 Equipment Dept.                Vice Director                                          a -  i _ngi1mD1 _e1 En1_ bela (NEW)
1. SeolDe              E88Wok(1M
Education Dept.                                                                                   -.t  shoagh ifavy Mmc lery Plat (SW)
S. Shanghai Machi  Tee$ borks (Sill
Production Dept.                                                                                     4. Shanghai Cutting Teol Works (SCnW)
S.Shanghai Cable Works (SCI
Import & Export Dept.                    -.  Shnghai Pang Pe Mbchiery Verba
_   Viee Director                                 -t. bShangha Do La" Msachinery Vara 
Supplement * Sales Dept.                 -. sh.r ohai C   wra     r Factory (SCF)
Director            S~~. ShnhiPaOe  MachineryGarabea(1 )
Ceating & Forging Dept.                                                      of ISS.r  Shanghi bidi   Ele cr    oel niobel (S E03
Dept.                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMEXA        Ii.  Shnhisloeer betas (SW5
Financing Dept.                                                                                   -it   Shan eai         Pop br11e  (nS
Labour Dept.                             -                                                                                   BVice Director  .ller -brea (SUM)
Credit Dept.                                                                                        IS.  _a 1Gha     ti1*  Aeh _s                   v     (S W
I?. Shanghi Mi Jimn Machiner Plant
Research & Technical Dept.               _                                                           I-S.    agI Csnatructin =chlewwr beri  (saC)
_Vice DIrector                      _                   -l. _hnga  Matail1rgica  1 Miin  Mactin de Manufactre  (Sd)
Quality Supervision Dept.                                                                         --9.  _hau Ihg Cr _     Caa vlat zrqe *c (SCC V
1. Shanghai ed-G4esd Panel Machieory Fatory (SUPW)
Enterprises Ad.intration Dept.                                                                                   IChmical Machbie MarIa (SS)
Policyo            Dept.         Vice Director D .                                                      t       I     w
Policy Dept.                             _                                               #        --14.    _ a.i Electrical 11 Macnoery 1apir Generl MaIa (SElG)
1.  ShIng1a 1 Itlitsu  ft SaclsN1a 1  E lectrici tengi_  e1f (lIKE)
2.  Shanghi  Electra    tsn  eso"eeh _       et1tet" (SEl)
S.   hna       IttA tf Macntin  B  dlding Teclmelegy (SlUT)
4. = Mac4  _ al  Ed _ lectrical Technlqe Inftnetlen Srvile  (511M)
Sh a iaMMacinery  0Inetitte" (1CMI)



