Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
3288-0 CHA
3288-1
3288-2
3288-3
3288-4
 
(Shanghai Industrial Development Project)
 
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS, SHANGHAI BRANCH
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA
PEOPLE'S CONSTRUCTION BANK OF CHINA
and
SHANGHAI INVESTMENT AND TRUST CORPORATION
Dated March
15,
1991
LOAN NUMBER
3288-0 CHA
3288-1
3288-2
3288-3
3288-4
 
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March
15,
1991, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS, SHANGHAI BRANCH (BOCOM), CHINA 
INVESTMENT BANK
(CIB), INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA (ICBC), PEOPLE'S 
CONSTRUCTION BANK OF CHINA
(PCBC) AND SHANGHAI INVESTMENT AND TRUST CORPORATION 
(SITCO) (the Financial Intermediaries).
Page  2
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million
dollars
($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that the Financial Intermediaries
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement
and Shanghai Municipality agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in the Shanghai Project Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between Shanghai 
Municipality and the Financial Intermediaries, the proceeds of the Loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement, will
be made available to the Financial Intermediaries on terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS the Financial Intermediaries, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section
1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Management
and Operations of the Financial Intermediaries
Section
2.01. Each of the Financial Intermediaries declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out its respective portion of Parts A and B.1 of the Project, 
in the case of CIB, ICBC and PCBC, through its Shanghai branch, and conduct its
operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial standards and practices,
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers and in accordance with: (a) for BOCOM, the BOCOM Charter; 
(b) for CIB, the CIB Supplementary Regulations, CIB Statement of Policy, CIB Statement 
of Development Strategy and CIB Lending Procedures;
(c)
for ICBC, the State Council
Decision;
(d) for PCBC, the State Council Decision; and (e) for SITCO, the SITCO 
Articles of Association.
 
Section
2.02. (a) Each of the Financial Intermediaries undertakes that, unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
1
to this Agreement.
 
(b)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall exercise its rights in 
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of 
the Bank and of such Financial Intermediary;
(ii) comply with its obligations under 
this Agreement and its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the 
purposes of the Project.
 
Section
2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for Parts A and B.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
2
to this
Agreement.
Section
2.04. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Page  3
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement and its respective portion of Parts A and
B.1 of the Project.
 
Section
2.05. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall duly perform all its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no Financial Intermediary shall take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of Section
2.02
(a)
of the Shanghai Project
Agreement.
Section
2.06. (a) Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall, at the request of 
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its respective
portion of Parts A and
B.1 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
 
(b)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall promptly inform the Bank of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
respective portion of Parts A
and B.1 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by such Financial Intermediary of its obligations under this Agreement and
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
 
Section
2.07. If any Financial Intermediary establishes or acquires any 
Subsidiary, such Financial Intermediary shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and
perform the obligations of such
Financial Intermediary under this Agreement to the extent to which such obligations
shall or may be made applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon
such Subsidiary.
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section
3.01. (a) Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall maintain procedures 
and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each
Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to 
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of such Financial Intermediaries.
 
(b)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal 
year, beginning with 1989, 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six
months after the end of each such year
: (A) certified 
copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For CIB, ICBC and PCBC, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall 
apply with respect to the Shanghai branch only.
 
Section
3.02. Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall take such steps 
satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange between the various currencies
(including Renminbi) used in its 
Page  4
operations
.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section
4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
 
Section
4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and the Financial 
Intermediaries thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each
of the Financial Intermediaries thereof.
 
Section
4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions.
 
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making
such request.
The addresses so specified are:
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
 
For BOCOM:
 
Bank of Communications
Shanghai Branch
200
Jiangxi Zhong Lu
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3480
33438 BOCOM CN
 
For CIB:
 
China Investment Bank
Shanghai Branch
80
Shanxi Bei Lu
Shanghai
Page  5
People's Republic of China
Telex:
 
30270
CIBSB CN
For ICBC:
 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
Shanghai Branch
74
Dian Chi Lu
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
ICBC SH
30176 ICBSF CN
 
For PCBC:
 
People's Construction Bank of China
Shanghai Branch
Room
516, No. 1456 Yanan Dong Lu
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
44001
30150 CBCSB CN
 
For SITCO:
 
Shanghai Investment and Trust Corporation
3rd Floor, Union Building
100
Yanan Dong Lu
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INVESTCO
33031 SITCO
 
Section
5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any Financial
Intermediary may be taken or executed by its President or, in the case of CIB, ICBC
and PCBC, the President of its Shanghai Branch, or by such other person or persons as
any such President shall designate in writing, and such Financial Intermediary shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
 
Section
5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
Page  6
BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS, SHANGHAI BRANCH
CHINA INVESTMENT BANK by its Shanghai branch
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA by
its Shanghai branch
PEOPLE'S CONSTRUCTION BANK OF CHINA by its
Shanghai branch
SHANGHAI INVESTMENT AND TRUST CORPORATION
By
/s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
and Processing Procedures
1.
Major Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
 
(a)
Sub-loans shall bear interest on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate not less than the variable rate payable under
Section
2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of one and one-quarter percent 
(1-1/4%).
 
(b)
Repayment periods for Sub-loans shall normally not extend beyond twelve 
years, including up to three years of grace.
 
(c)
Each of the Financial Intermediaries shall: (i) ensure that each 
Investment Enterprise bears the foreign exchange risk between the Renminbi and the
Bank's currency pool on its Sub-loan; or (ii) 
make other arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for the sharing of such foreign exchange risk.
 
(d)
The aggregate amount of all Sub-loans for an Investment Project or 
Technical Assistance Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
 
(e)
No Sub-loan shall be made to an Investment Enterprise unless: (i) the 
Investment Project or Technical Assistance Project is consistent with the Statement
referred to in clause
(B)
of the Preamble to the Loan Agreement; and
(ii) a charter 
for the Investment Enterprise has been issued in accordance with paragraph
3
(b)
of
the Schedule to the Shanghai Project Agreement. Training under Technical Assistance 
Projects shall be consistent with the annual programs referred to in paragraph
6
of
the Schedule to the Shanghai Project Agreement.
 
(f)
Technical Assistance Projects and Investment Projects shall be in Project 
Sub-sectors and Investment Projects shall have a minimum financial rate of return of 
12%, and where the proposed Sub-loan exceeds $3,000,000, shall have a minimum economic 
rate of return of
12%.
 
(g)
Investment Enterprises shall have a satisfactory projected financial 
position as determined by generally accepted financial standards.
 
(h)
Investment Projects and Technical Assistance Projects shall be consistent 
with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank. No Sub-loan shall be made to an 
Investment Enterprise unless: (i) the existing operations of the relevant factory 
under the Investment Enterprise are in compliance with the environmental standards of
Page  7
the Shanghai Environmental Protection Agency; and
(
ii
)
the Investment Project has been
approved by such Agency.
 
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project or 
Technical Assistance Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan shall be for a Technical Assistance Project which shall have 
been approved by the Bank;
(b)
the Sub-loan for an Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
(90) days 
prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the application and information required under paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; and
 
(c)
the Sub-loan for an Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
(90) days prior to the date 
on which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph
3
(b)
of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.
 
(i)
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a 
free-limit 
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment 
Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which, when added to any other
outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of Sub-loans, the 
proceeds of 
which have been or are being used for financing goods and services
directly and materially related to such Investment Project, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of
$3,000,000, the foregoing amount being 
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
 
(ii)
Notwithstanding the provision of sub-paragraph (i) above, the 
first two
Investment Sub-loans proposed to be made by each of 
the Financial
Intermediaries in an amount below
$3,000,000
for each Sub-loan shall not be 
treated as free-limit 
Sub-loans.
 
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, each Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank an application, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project or description of the Technical
Assistance Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and a description of the procurement procedures;
(ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
 
(b)
Each request by a Financial Intermediary for authorization to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: 
(i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and a description of the procurement procedures;
(ii) the terms 
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the 
Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
 
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December
31,
1993.
 
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Financial Intermediary, including the right
to:
 
Page  8
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project or Technical Assistance Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Sub-loan: (i) be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project 
or Technical Assistance Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project or Technical
Assistance Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Financial Intermediary 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to
be derived from the Investment Project or Technical Assistance Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
SCHEDULE
2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each Financial Intermediary shall cause
Investment Enterprises to procure goods and services and employ consultants to be
financed in whole or in
part under Sub-loans in accordance with paragraphs
1,
2,
3,
4
and
5
below.
 
1.
Goods and services estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits"
published by the Bank in May
1985
(the Guidelines).
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in this
paragraph, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs
1
through
4
of Appendix
2
thereto.
 
2.
Goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
 
3.
Proprietary items and spare parts requiring standarization may be procured 
through direct purchase from suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
4.
Review of procurement decisions by the Bank:
 
(a)
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
Page  9
(i)
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2
and
4
of
Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such 
contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said
paragraph
2
(d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
 
(ii)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs
3
and
4
of
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
3
shall be furnished to
the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of
Schedule
4
to the Loan Agreement.
 
(iii)
The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraphs (a) (i) and (ii) 
shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such 
contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section
4.01
(a) (ii) of the 
Loan Agreement.
 
(b)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines.
 
5.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of 
consultants employed under Technical Assistance Projects shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank
in August
1981.
