Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3288-0 CHA
3288-1
3288-2
3288-3
3288-4
(Shanghai Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
Dated March 15, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3288-0 CHA
3288-1
3288-2
3288-3
3288-4
SHANGHAI PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY (Shanghai Municipality).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Shanghai Municipality agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement and 
that the Financial Intermediaries agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS Shanghai Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shanghai Municipality declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
industrial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the facilities, services, other resources and funds required for Parts A and B of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shanghai Municipality shall otherwise agree, Shanghai 
Municipality shall carry out
Part B.2 of the Project and coordinate the carrying out of Parts A and B.1 of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Shanghai Municipality shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to 
the Financial Intermediaries under subsidiary loan agreements, one with each Financial 
Intermediary,
whose terms and conditions shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include:
(i)
interest payable at a rate equal to the variable rate payable 
under Section 
2.05 of the Loan Agreement;
 
(ii)
repayment by the Financial Intermediaries within twenty years, 
including a 
period of grace of five years;
 
(iii)
all foreign exchange risks to be borne by the Financial 
Intermediary; and
(iv)
commitment charges payable at the rate payable under Section 2.04 
of the Loan 
Agreement.
 
(b)
Shanghai Municipality shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and Shanghai 
Municipality and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Shanghai 
Municipality shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
to affect the provisions of
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.03. Shanghai Municipality shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Shanghai Project 
Agreement and Part B.2 of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Shanghai Municipality shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance 
Page  3
of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Shanghai Municipality shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Shanghai 
Municipality of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shanghai Municipality shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B.2 of the Project of 
its departments or agencies responsible for carrying out Part B.2 of the Project.
(b)
Shanghai Municipality shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shanghai 
Municipality thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shanghai Municipality thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  4
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 92987 (FTCC)
For Shanghai Municipality:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jiu Jiang Road
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Telex:
33062 BOCSH CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanghai 
Municipality may be taken or executed by the Mayor or Vice Mayor or such other person 
or persons as the Mayor or Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Shanghai 
Municipality shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
Shanghai Municipality shall: (a) by April 15 in each year, conduct an assessment 
of the impact of policy reforms in the Project Sub-sectors in the preceding year; and 
(b) thereafter,
exchange views with the Bank on the results of such assessment.
2.
Shanghai Municipality shall: (a) maintain a Steering Committee to oversee 
Page  5
Project implementation; and (b) maintain a project implementation unit to coordinate 
implementation of the
Project; both with composition, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, 
and, for such unit, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
3.
(a)
For the purposes of Part A of the Project and Section 1.02 (q) of the 
Loan Agreement, Project Sub-sectors shall be: 
(i)
printing machinery;
 
(ii)
electrical apparatus;
 
(iii)
electronic components;
 
(iv)
precision and scientific instruments; and
 
(v)
other industrial sub-sectors agreed between the Bank and Shanghai 
Municipality.
Prior to requesting inclusion of a sub-sector under (v) above, Shanghai Municipality 
shall adopt a development program and strategy for such Sub-sector acceptable to the 
Bank.
(b)
In order for an enterprise to be eligible for Sub-loans, its powers and 
responsibilities shall be specified in a charter acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Shanghai Municipality shall make arrangements to ensure that each Investment 
Enterprise shall complete the consolidation of its financial accounts within nine 
months of charter issuance.
5.
Shanghai Municipality shall carry out the study under Part B.2 (a) of the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Shanghai Municipality shall: (a) ensure that overseas training under Technical 
Assistance Projects shall be carried out in accordance with annual programs acceptable 
to the Bank; and (b) provide to the Bank for concurrence, by September 30 in each 
year, the proposed training program for the following year.
