Report No. PIC4064
Project Name                   Tunisia-Transport Sector Project
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     TNPA43700
Borrower                       Government of Tunisia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Transport (MT)
Contact:             Mr. Salem Miladi
Directeur General
Planification et etudes (MT)
Rue Montplaisir
Tunis, Tunisia..
Tel. 216.1.795.289
Fax. 216.1.792.219
Date this update prepared      June 1996
Project Appraisal date         March 1997
Project Board date             May 1997
1.   Country and sector background.      Satisfactory by regional
comparison, transport services in Tunisia still leave room for
improvement. Tunisia has engaged in the path to faster growth by taking
up the challenge of free trade with the European Union within twelve
years and moving forcefully on essential reforms to straighten out the
macroeconomic and fiscal framework, and on privatization as well. The
trade intensity of the economy is bound to increase, putting added
pressure on transport capacities. Without upgrading transport services,
the accelerated growth ambition can easily derail, especially at modal
interfaces.
2.   Project Objectives.       The proposed project will aim at removing
the main institutional bottlenecks to enhanced productivity and
international competitiveness in the changing trade environment. The
three-pronged approach, derived from the detailed assessment carried out
under the recent Transport Strategy Study, would pursue liberalization
of markets where sufficient competition exists, reform of the regulatory
framework to increase private sector participation in service delivery
and reduction of the fiscal burden, promotion of safer transport and of
effective logistics organizations for the enhancement of Tunisian firms'
competitive capacity.
3.   Project description.      Along sector lending principles, the
proposed project would help implement the action program set forth in a
Letter of Sector Development Policy through double- headed financial
support to the Ministry of Transport (MT) and transport-related
activities.
Part A.   Financial support to the agreed investment program:    the
Ninth Plan (1997-2001) for transport will be the reference for Bank
monitoring of budgeting and execution of yearly programs. Special



emphasis will be placed on creating efficient interfaces between modes
and helping private enterprises to grow in size and productive
efficiency. Loan proceeds would go to:
priority investments in public infrastructure and equipment: the
project will concentrate on ports, railways and urban transport,
and help: (a) the MT; and (b) transport parastatals through the
MT to rehabilitate and modernize their fixed assets;
investments for promotion of public-private partnerships:the
substitution of private for public capital will come more slowly
in basic infrastructure, and the project will support government
financing of its share of projects involving the private sector
(e.g. network connections and land preparation for road freight
and passenger stations).
Part B.   Technical assistance to capacity building for
implementation of reforms, comprised of:
technical assistance for management development:      capacity
building at the MT in policy formulation, market regulation and
monitoring; reorganization of the railways and of port
management; institutional development for better coordination of
urban transport modes, integrated transport and urban planning
and upgrading of traffic management in Tunis; support to the
Facilitation Committee created under the Economic
Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL);
road safety initiatives: the project will also finance a pilot
program centered on strengthening the government's capacity to
integrate remedial actions, sensitization and education of the
public, and development of road safety management systems.
4.   Project financing.   Total project cost is currently estimated at
US$300 million with a proposed Bank loan of US$120 million which will be
used to catalyze cofinancing.
5.   Project sustainability.   Reorganization/modernization of public
management, increased competition and pricing freedom, better targeting
of subsidies, and closer participation of private providers and users to
sector management will ensure sustainability of project benefits.
6.   Environmental category.   Category B or C is proposed for the
project (the project deals primarily with public sector restructuring
and management). Preparation of the urban transport component will
include an assessment of pollution by motor vehicles and, if warranted,
mitigation measures.
7.   Program Objective categories.   ME (Economic management), BR (Public
enterprise reform), and BP (Private sector development).
8.   Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC, 20433
- 2-



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project which is still at
a very early stage. Certain    components may not necessarily be
included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 19, 1996.
- 3 -



