Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17930-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUAL TO FRF222.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUAL TO FRF78.2 MILLION
TO
OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX TUNISIENS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FORA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
TRANSPORT REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM
JUNE 3, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Tunisian dinar
Tunisian dinar I = US$0.88
US$1 = Tunisian dinar 1.14
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BOT          Build-Operate-Transfer
C&F          Cost and Freight
CP           Performance Contract (Contrat Programme in french)
CPG          Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa
CTN          Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation
DGPE         Direction Generale de la Planification et des Etudes (Ministry of Transport)
ECAL         Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
EU           European Union
FOB          Free on Board
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GoT          Government
MEDA         Mesures dA'ccompagnement (referring to the European Commission financial
assistance program for Southern Mediterranean countries)
MERR         Modified Economic Rate of Return
MT           Ministry of Transport
OPNT         Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
SMLT         Socidte du M6tro Leger de Tunis
SNCFT        Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
SNT          Societe Nationale des Transports
SNTRI        Societe Nationale des Transports Intergouvernorats
SOTRAFER   Societe de Travaux Ferroviaires
STAM         Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention
TA           Technical Assistance
WTO          World Trade Organization
Vice President       Mr. Kemal Dervi§
Country Director     Mr. Christian Delvoie
Sector Director      Mr. Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Manager         Mr. Michel Loir



Tunisia
Transport Sector Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .......................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................................                                       2
B.  Strategic Context  .......................................................................4
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ..........................................................4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed and strategic choices .........................................................5
4. Key conditions for subsequent loan ......................................................................S5
C. Description  Summary  of the First Operation .......................................................................6
1. Project components .......................................................................6
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported  by the project .......................................                                  7
3. Benefits and target population .......................................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................7
D. Program   and Project Rationale .......................................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................                               9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..........                                                 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ...............................................                                 9
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .....................................................                                  10
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project                                                      ................................      10
E. Summary Program   and  Project Analysis ............................................................1..........                                      1
I. Economic    ......................................................................                                                      11
2. Financial    ......................................................................                                                     11
3. Technical   ......................................................................                                                      12
4. Institutional ......................................................................                                                    12
5. Social             ......................................................................                                               12
6. Environmental assessment ......................................................................                                         12
7. Participatory approach ......................................................................                                           13
F.  Sustainability  and Risks ......................................................................                                                   13
1. Sustainability ......................................................................                                                   13
2. Critical risks ......................................................................                                                   14
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................................................................                                   15



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................................................................                                         15
1.  Conditions of disbursement ..................................................................                             1 5
2.   Dated covenants ...................................................................                                          5
3.   Financial covenants ..................................................................                                   16
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................................................................                                 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................................................................                                16
Annexes
Annex la. and lb.  Project Design Summary .17
Annex Ic.                       Transport Policy Letter .22
Annex 2.                       Detailed Project Description .29
Annex 3.                       Estimated Project Costs .36
Annex 4.                       Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .37
Annex 5.                       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .39
Table A.                    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .40
Table B.                    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .41
Table C.                    Allocation of Loan Proceeds .42
Annex 6.                       Documents in the Project File .43
Annex 7.                       Statement of Loans and Credits .45
Annex 8.    Country at a Glance .47
Map: IBRD 29610



Tunisia
Transport Sector Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Infrastructure Development Group
Date: June 1, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Michel Loir
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie         Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: 43700      Sector: Transportation       Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument:   Adaptable Program Loan        Program of Targeted          [   Yes  [X]  No
Intervention:
Adaptable Program Data
APL           Indicative Financing Plan    Estimated Implementation          Borrower
(Bank FY)
IBRD    Others     Total   Commitment  Closing date
US$million US$million  US$million  date
APL Phase 1                50.0      30.2      80.2  June 1998   Decemb. 2002 -Government & OPNT
APL Phase 2                32.0       5.0     37.0  June 2001    Decemb.2005  -Government
Total             82.0      35.2    117.2 _
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan        [] Credit    [] Guarantee            [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: two loans totaling FRF300.7M (US$50 equivalent)
Proposed terms:                     [      Multicurrency     [X] Single currency: French Franc
Grace period (years): 5       [       Standard Variable  [   Fixed        [X]        PIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan: project costs equivalent to US$80.2m (rounded)
Source                            Local            Foreign           Total
Government (GoT) for IBRD financed components                 13.8             1.0            14.8
IBRD                                                          18.3*           31.7            50.0
OPNT                                                           7.4             1.1             8.5
GoT/grant financing for components not financed by IBRD        1.3             5.6             6.9
Total          40.8            39.4            80.2
* of which US$16.8m is to finance severancefor redundant railway staff
Borrower: Two loans : (i) The Republic of Tunisia (Ministry of Transport) - FRF222.5M (US$37M eqivalent), and (ii)
OPNT - FRF78.2M (US$13M equivalent).
Guarantor: The Government of Tunisia for the OPNT loan.
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Transport; OPNT; SNCFT.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     1999      2000     2001       2002       2003        Total
Annual       13.5      14.1     12.7        7.7        2.0        50.0
Cumulative      13.5      27.6     40.3       48.0        50.0
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 10-31-1998 Expected closing date: 12-31-2002
OSD PAD Fonn: July 30, 1997



Page 2
Background
In the years following independence, Government transport policy favored central planning and a large
public sector. Nineteen eighty-six marked a turning point: a general move toward market-oriented
policies in an outward looking economy soon translated into measures designed to increase private sector
participation in the transport market. Liberalization, then privatization, of trucking exemplified such local
commitment to reforms. The number of sectors considered "strategic," hence bound to be firmly under
Government control, dwindled over the years. Joining the World Trade Organization (WTO) and signing
the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union (EU) in 1995 was another decisive move to open the
economy, thus creating even stronger incentives to make the local production more competitive abroad.
Better and cheaper transport will contribute to that objective.
The Transport Strategy Study was the outcome of a collaborative work carried out in 1995 by a Bank
team and the Tunisian administration. It was presented in a seminar held in March 1996 in Tunis and
approved by the Government (GoT). The Transport Sector Project will help implement that strategy.
Bank assistance will be provided in the form of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The specific features
of the program and the project associated with the first phase of the APL are presented below.
A: Program and Project Development Objective
1. Program development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The paramount objective is to reduce economic distances and facilitate integration of Tunisia into the
global economy by providing traders with enhanced opportunities and the skills to be competitive abroad,
starting with Europe. The program supported by the current APL, described in a Policy Letter dated May
27, 1998 submitted by the GoT (see annex 1c), focuses on essential reforms and modernization
investments needed in the 1998-2005 period to eliminate main infrastructure bottlenecks to faster growth
and bring local living standards up to those now prevailing in the southern part of the European Union.
The relatively short period formally covered by the program responds to the GoT willingness to keep its
own planning horizon. However, there is overall agreement on the thrust of the longer term reforms, and
continued dialogue with the Bank is expected on their implementation. The objectives of the program are
to (a) increase the efficiency and quality of transport services by expanding and modernizing transport
equipment, introducing a market framework conducive to competitive delivery, and ensuring that the
environmental impact of transport activities is reduced; and (b) reduce the financial burden of the
transport sector on the Government's budget by increasing the participation of the private sector in
transport investment and service delivery, and by improving the performance of the remaining public
enterprises. Progress toward achievement of these objectives will be measured through a set of indicators
presented below.
Key program indicators                          1997          2002          2005
Transport investments as a percent of GDP      about 2.5%     about 3.0%    about 3.5%
Private sector share of transport investments  about 25%      about 35%     over 50%
Transport subsidies as a percent of GDP        about 0.8%     about 0.4%    about 0.2%
Share of public transport in Tunis             about 55%      about 55%     about 55%
Share of unleaded gas in total gas consumption  about 4%      about 20%     about 33%
Sulphur content of diesel (as a percent of weight)  about 0.4%  below 0.05%    below 0.05%
Lead content of gasoline                       about 0.40g/l  below 0.1g/l g    below 0.1 5g/l
*Standard contract terms: C&F for "cost & freigth" and FOB for "free on board".



Page 3
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project would implement the first phase of the program and pursue the same broad objectives (i.e.,
the promotion of better, cheaper, and less polluting transport services), but would focus on the port and
railway subsectors and on strengthening the overall transport sector management. Specific project goals
are:
(a)  privatizing port services and promoting private investments in ports by setting up a new
cargo handling organization and constructing new port facilities under Build-Operate-
Transfer (BOT) schemes;
(b)  Facilitating access of foreign investors to trade-related transport activities as a way to foster
technological transfer and bring in capital;
(c)  commercializing the railway parastatal (Societe Nationale des Chemrins de Fer Tunisiens or
SNCFT) and making it financially autonomous through a combination of institutional
changes for higher operational efficiency (implementation of an organization along four
business lines, namely: suburban and inter-city passenger traffic, freight and phosphate
traffic), tariff adjustments and full, transparent compensation for the service obligations
imposed by Government; and
(d)  increased use of less polluting fuels (lower-lead or lead-free gasoline, cleaner diesel).
These objectives would require the introduction of important regulatory and sector reforms, including
port legislation and regulations, the modernization of customs procedures, the implementation of trade
facilitation measures, the revision of the institutional framework for railways, and the modification of
pricing mechanisms in the affected subsectors. Progress will be monitored through the evolution of the
following indicators:
Key project technical indicators                     1997           2000           2002
Average port productivity:
-tons of GC* per ship/hour at berth            about 32       about 35      about 40
-TEU handled per crane/hour                       10            12             14
Private sector share of general cargo handling     about 35%        80%        close to 100%
Budget support to railways as a percent of revenues**    about 80%  about 50%   about 40%
Traffic unit per staff employed in the railways       450            559           600
Reduction of travel time for railway passengers:
- Tunis-Sousse                                          -            -30'
- Tunis Ghardimaou                                                   -15'
Small trucks share of ton-kms (intercity traffic)  about 40%     about 35%      about 30%
* general cargo
**ratio of annualized subsidies to traffic revenues
Key project reforms indicators                                Completion date
New port legislation and related regulations                     in effect by end of 1998
Full implementation of the CTN restructuring plan                 by December 31, 2000
New railway legislation and related regulations                      by June 30, 2000
Full implementation of the STAM restructuring plan                by December 31, 2001
Freedom to establish prices except for urban transport            by December 31, 2001
Liberalization of bus and truck imports                           by December 31, 2001



Page 4
B: Strategic Context
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the program (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: No. 15799-TUN   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 25, 1996
- Deepening structural reforms and redefinition of the role played by Government in the economy.
- Modernization of services (opening transport to private sector, liberalizing transport services, raising
the quality of trade-related services).
- Upgrading of the environmental management.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Overall, the mobility of people and freight is hampered by:
(a) trade constraints that limit access to transport equipment imports are particularly damaging for
trucking and bus transport, since locally produced vehicles are of lower quality;
(b) regulatory and structural issues which curtail private sector participation and competition in many
market segments (urban and interurban bus transport in particular), and stifle entrepreneurship and
private investments in cargo handling facilities; intrinsically inefficient sector monopolies, further
weakened by an obsolete organization and limited autonomy, which hurts perfonnance of the bus and
railway companies;
(c) restrictive labor practices, especially in ports where dockworkers enjoy undue employment privileges
granted by an outdated 1949 decree;
(d) a deficit of sector management capacity: there is no adequate transport database, and a shortage of
trained staff to deal with transport pricing, taxation, or infrastructure cost recovery, or to enforce
financial discipline. Decisions come slowly: for instance, the port agency's exact liabilities to
Treasury have not yet been determined and the apportionment of land ownership among the bus
transport parastatal in Tunis, Societe Nationale de Transport (SNT), and the two companies that were
unbundled from it, Societe du Metro Leger de Tunis (SMLT) and Societe Nationale des Transports
Intergouvernorats (SNTRI), is only now being worked out after years of inaction. Institutional
weaknesses account for a severe underfunding of bus transport public service obligations, which in
turn entails costly, often belated financial restructurings and prevents the smooth growth of service
provision in major cities. They also account for the loosely targeted and economically inefficient
subsidization of SNCFT, which, in turn, is bound to provide transport services to the Compagnie des
Phosphates de Gafsa (CPG) at below-cost tariffs, as well as for the poor coordination of urban
transport modes and ill-equipped, poorly organized transport interfaces; and
(e) very low levels of road safety.
The Government has started addressing some of these issues, partly under the Economic
Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL). The reform programs in the port and railway subsectors are
now well defined, from plans to modernize management and equipment to clarification and streamlining
of the financial relationships between public enterprises and the Government. Laws granting CTN a
priority on chartered cargo transport and restricting the scope of private cargo handling have already been
abrogated. The restructuring of CTN and plans for restructuring STAM are underway, and
comprehensive legislation on Tunisian ports and maritime trade (Code de Commerce Maritime) has been
submitted to Parliament, which is expected to vote on it before the end of 1998. This legislation also
provides for elimination of the dock labor special employment status granted by the 1949 decree. The



Page 5
performance contract signed with the SNCFT on February 13, 1998 includes provisions for staff
redundancies, which are critical for improving the efficiency and financial performance of the enterprise.
Reforms in urban and inter-city transport will take time to mature, but a strategy has already been
prepared that calls for decentralization of management, as well as increased transparency in pricing,
subsidy and accounting policies. The GoT also intends to change the monopolistic structure of these
markets, with the expectation of privatization, full or partial, in the long term.
3. Sector issues to be addressed and strategic choices:
The project would support the GoT strategy to address most of the above issues. Choices were made
regarding the specific subsectors and the depth of the reforms that would be sought under the whole
program and under its first phase. The program would: (a) foster increased competition in ports, urban
transport (through subcontracting some services by the parastatals in general, and by concessioning of
seat-only bus services on a much broader scale, in particular in Tunis), and in inter-urban bus transport
(currently a de facto monopoly of SNTRI, a public company); (b) strengthen public capacity to plan
transport investments and monitor the interaction of market forces, and help design a new regulatory
framework that will reduce GoT control; (c) develop effective coordination and funding mechanisms in
urban transport; (d) commercialize and, when feasible, privatize selected public enterprises; and (e)
improve overall transport sector finance. The program would also provide the framework for resolving
environmental issues but will not finance related activities. Theproject would address broadly the same
issues as the program but will focus only on the port and railway subsectors, and on overall transport
sector management. A second phase under the program will focus on urban and interurban bus transport
reforrns.
The liberalization of transport equipment imports and the revamping of the transport taxation system will
not be addressed other than through the continuous dialogue between the GoT and the Bank on the global
transport reform. Liberalization of transport imports will proceed in accordance with provisions of the
WTO and the Free-Trade agreement with the EU. As far as transport taxation is concerned, the ongoing
PHRD-financed study on transport taxation will review restructuring options and lay down benchmarks
of progress toward implementation of the preferred option from the sector's perspective. Concrete
measures, however, will have to be decided by GoT with the broader objective of macrofinancial
stability. Road safety issues will be tackled under the next operation on highways.
4. Key conditions for subsequent loan
Consideration of the second phase loan would be contingent upon satisfactory implementation of
the agreed investment plan for transport over 1997-2001, and of the program and the project, with at least
50 percent of each of the two project loans already committed. Other benchmarks that would have to be
met are as follows:
(a) for the sector:
* transport investments share of GDP: about 2.8 percent;
* private sector share in sector investment: over 30 percent;
* transport subsidies below 0.5 percent of GDP;
* share of public sector in total transport service delivery in Tunis of about 55 percent;
(b) for the ports and railways:
* new port and railways regulations and legislation in place;
* STAM and CTN restructured;
* budget support to the SNCFT less than 60 percent of revenues;



Page 6
(c) for urban transport:
*  financial restructuring of the public bus companies completed;
*  greater managerial autonomy granted to public bus companies, including the right to contract
out lines or services;
*  establishment of a local management institution;
*  implementation of a system ensuring full compensation of public service obligations imposed
by GoT on bus companies signed and introduction of new urban transport financing
mechanisms;
(d) for interurban transport:
* a privatization plan has been approved for SNTRI and bids have been invited from private
firms for concessioning of SNTRI lines, representing no less than 50 percent of total traffic
revenue;
*  an organization has been set up to regulate and monitor private concessions.
Processing of any second loan would be carried out in accordance with relevant standard Bank policies
and practices.
C: Description Summary of the First Operation
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will include investments pre-identified as part of the Ninth Plan. The corresponding
feasibility studies are at various stage of preparation and fully completed for those relating to first-year
investments. All investments to be financed will comply with agreed technical and economic eligibility
criteria (see para.C4 (f)).
Port investments would modernize and rehabilitate infrastructure in order to allow for higher productivity
and faster turnaround of ships in conditions of growing traffic. They include rebuilding commercial
berths in Bizerte, a longer and redesigned breakwater in Gabes for better protection of berthed ships from
wave action, and a new oil jetty in Rades to accommodate tankers twice the size of those currently
received. Their costs are estimated at US$21 million, or about 15 percent of total port investments under
the Ninth Plan.
Railway investments would renew and improve the infrastructure and equipment on the core network to
make railway services more cost efficient and competitive. Under phase 1 of the APL, planned
investments would consist of modernization of the railway trunk line between Tunis and Sfax; track
renewal on the international line to Algeria (between Tunis and Ghardimaou); and construction of two
track overpasses to relieve congestion in Tunis southern suburbs (Hamman-Lif and Ezzahra). In total,
these investments are costed at close to US$28 million, or about 10 percent of all railway investments
scheduled under the Ninth Plan. Financing would also be provided for the redundancy costs of SNCFT.
Technical assistance would also be provided, mainly focused on the management capacity of the Ministry
of Transport (MT), development of a good transport database, establishment of an electronic data
interchange system for use by the port community and traders, decentralization of urban transport
management, preparation of the enterprise restructuring and privatization activities anticipated under the
project, and development of an urban transport master plan for Tunis, Sfax and Sousse, including
identification of measures for improved traffic management. Port investment feasibility and pricing
studies, and technical assistance to implementation of the new railway organization, plus training, are also
included in the project.



Page 7
Component                       Category               Cost Including       % of
Contingencies (US$M)   Total
l) Railway component                                         Total of 46.8 of which  58.3%
- infrastructure improvement      - physical                                    28.1
- severance for redundant staff   - policy                                      16.8
- technical assistance and studies  - capacity building/policy                   1.9
2) Port component                                             total of 21.6 of which  26.6%
- berth rehabilitation/construction  - physical                                 20.4
- technical assistance and studies  - capacity building/policy                   1.2
3) Sector management component                               total of 11.8 of which
- Bank financed TA                 - capacity building/policy                    4.9  15.1%
- GoT financed TA.                 - capacity building/policy                    6.9
Total                    80.2  100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support implementation of reforms in the areas of: (a) sector management: (i)
restructuring transport taxes; (ii) increased pricing autonomy by sector entities; (iii) establishment and
enforcement of anti-pollution norms for fuels and vehicles; (b) railway management: (i) implementing
new legislation and regulation that will enable commercialization of SNCFT, including a new statute, a
concession agreement, the phasing out of GoT subsidies and the specification of the financial obligations
of each party; (ii) upfront financial restructuring and tariff revisions; (iii) closure of noneconomic lines;
(c) privatization and restructuring of port activities, including: (i) completing the restructuring of CTN
and STAM, divesting the commercial activities handled by the port agency (OPNT), and progressive
divestiture of the cross-equity participation by the public enterprises in shipping and ports as part ofGoT
action to disengage from commercial activities and transfer them to the private sector; (ii) restructuring
the port tariffs and providing for their more independent regulation; and (iii) establishing a new port
concession framework and inviting bids for construction of a container berth in Rades under a BOT
scheme.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would benefit the entire Tunisian population by removing transport bottlenecks to faster
economic growth and higher intemational competitiveness, and reducing the adverse environmental
impact of vehicle emissions by promoting the use of cleaner fuels. It would generate savings through
increased port competition, and work toward elimination of market distortions and a more efficient
interrnodal allocation of traffic, thereby stimulating trade and production. The project would also
mitigate the social impact of redundancies on affected railway workers while making the SNCFT more
competitive and less of a burden on the GoT budget. Finally, it would also have a positive impact on
SNCFT staff, which would enjoy healthier working conditions, and for the local population, as risks of
pollutants seeping into the water table would be mitigated through provision of soiled water treatment
facilities and connection of the workshops pipes to the sewerage network.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a) Implementation period. 1998-2005 for the program, 1998-2002 for the project.  The
implementation period of the first phase would broadly match the implementation of investments
included in the Ninth Plan (1997-2001).
(b) Executing agencies. The Ministry of Transport (DGPE, or Direction Generale de la Planifi cation
et des Etudes); SNCFT and OPNT for the railway and port components, respectively. The
staffing needs and the institutional capacity of these agencies have been appraised and are
considered satisfactory.



Page 8
(c) Project coordination. DGPE would act as a secretariat and head of the project coordinating
committee. The directorate has already performed this function satisfactorily during project
preparation, when it was charged with execution of the PHRD grant.
(d) Project oversight. A Coordinating Committee headed by the Ministry of Transport would be
created by December 31, 1998. Other committee members would include representatives of the
ministries of Transport, Finance, Cooperation Internationale, Environment and Territory
Conservation and Developpement Economique, and of the private sector (Shippers' Council, a
leading professional organization such as the Federation Nationale des Transports, FNT). The
Coordinating Committee would meet twice a year to review implementation progress, with the
minutes of each meeting sent to the Bank. Project oversight would build on the supervision
capacity that already exists to monitor implementation of the performance contracts entered into
by all transport parastatals under the Ninth Plan.
(e) Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. A Bank review of the transport investment plan would
take place in the field each year by the end of April: DGPE would submit a report in a format
acceptable to the Bank on the execution of the Ninth Plan for transport, including both physical
and institutional targets. A second yearly Bank field review would take place by the end of
October and would verify that the draft current and capital budgets in the transport sector are
fully consistent with the agreed plan, and that investments proposed for financing under the Bank
loan and not yet fully appraised meet the agreed financial, economic and environmental criteria.
A mid-term review would be held in October 2000.
(f) Project investment selection. The objectives, scope and timing of technical assistance and main
studies have been agreed with Govermment at appraisal and are described in the legal documents.
The list may be modified as dictated by new circumstances. The same is true of investments.
Those currently proposed and not yet fully appraised would be subject to verification that they
are in full compliance with eligibility criteria, including sound engineering, an economic rate of
return of at least 10 percent, a procurement plan along the Bank procurement guidelines, and an
analysis of environmental impacts, including planned mitigation measures. Such verifications
would take place during the October meetings.
(g) Appraised investments to be launched during the first year of project implementation amount to
about US$28 million (56 percent of the two loans' total and some two-thirds of their total without
technical assistance), and have already been agreed to by GoT and the Bank during negotiations.
These investments include US$8 million for the railway severance program, US$6.5 million for
modernization of the Tunis-Sousse railway track, and about US$6 million for the rehabilitation of
the port of Bizerte.
(h) Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The financial management systems
of the implementing agencies, SNCFT and OPNT, have been reviewed and found satisfactory.
Financial reporting is satisfactory and timely. Auditing by a commercial auditor is standard
practice. A new chart of accounts was introduced in 1997 and future financial statements would
fully conform to international standards and practices. The ongoing experience with the Ministry
of Transport as the executing agency for the PHRD grant is also satisfactory. Project accounts
would be kept by DGPE, SNCFT and OPNT, respectively, based on a model acceptable to the
Bank. DGPE would also register transactions in and out of the Special Account to be set up for
implementation of the railway component and the sector management component of the project.
SNCFT and OPNT would have their full financial statements audited by a commercial auditor,
whose reports would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months starting in FY1998. The scope
of the SNCFT audit would be extended to cover audit of the Project Accounts and the Special
Account kept by DGPE. The auditors are generally selected on a competitive basis for contracts
covering three years, a practice that was found acceptable at appraisal. Audit requirements are
applicable from FY1998 onward.



Page 9
D: Program and Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An adjustment operation was envisaged but rejected, as the time required for the agreed reforms to be
effected would be longer than the implementation period of a fast disbursing operation. In addition, the
planned reforms require investment and institutional support in an integrated way. An APL was
considered the most appropriate instrument, as it provides the Bank with the opportunity to assist the
transport sector through a longer period and in a more flexible way at a time some of the specific reforms
in key subsectors are yet to be defined.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Project                             Sector Issues
Bank-financed                                                                IP   DO
Rural Roads Project (Loan 3840-TUN; US$51.5  1. Road infrastructure: ill defined  S    S
million)- ongoing                          management responsibilities and
financing gaps for local roads;
excessive reliance on Force
Accounts; a large and inefficient
equipment fleet; need to improve
methods of selection and
programming of road works at the
center.
Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan   2. Macroeconomic and fiscal        S    S
(Loan 4069-TUN; US$37.5 million; FF193.9    framework: inadequate regulations
million)- ongoing                          and weak public monopolies in trade
related areas (maritime transport,
customs code; dock labor
employment; trade logistics; port
tariffs and management)
Public Enterprise Reformn Loan (Loan 3109-  3. Public sector management:           U
TUN; US$130 million); closed on June 30, 1993  restructure and reduce budgetary
(PPAR no.14812)                            transfers to public enterprises,
including SNCFT, and divest those
operating on a potentially competitive
market.
Other development agencies
1. The African Development Bank recently financed rehabilitation of the flood-damaged southern
railway network.
2. The European Investment Bank is quite active in the project-related sectors: two loans in equal
amounts of Ecu25 million were granted to OPNT and SNCFT in recent years.
3. Guaranteed export credits totalling US$25 million were secured from France by SNCFT in
September 1997.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design draws on the experience of past projects in Tunisia, as well as on lessons learned in
other countries. Specifically, the urban transport reform in London was believed relevant to Tunis, since



Page 10
it was also done in stages. The railway reform draws, among others, from the ongoing Bank Railway
Restructuring Project in Morocco. The port reform is also based on best practice cases in America and
Asia. Lessons learned in Tunisia are that:
(a) clearly defining GoT objectives is critical, especially when privatization and other sensitive
reforms are involved;
(b) sector reforms, particularly restructuring of public enterprises, need expert assistance to overcome
technical obstacles and time to mature; such requirements are best addressed in the context of a
program that provides an overall policy framework and is supported by a series of projects.
Monitorable benchmarks to verify continuous progress toward institutional objectives and sustain
GoT resolve to meet them are essential. A continuous dialogue and close follow-up on the
impact of changing conditions on program objectives and timetable are as important as initial
definitions and expectations;
(c) finally, introducing private competition in a market segment currently controlled by aparastatal
must be done in the context of a broader privatization strategy rather than in isolation; otherwise,
private participation will remain marginal, since GoT may easily come under pressure from the
incumbent to limit new private entry.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The GoT sought Bank support in defining the transport strategy for the Ninth Plan (1997-2001). The
main recommendations of the strategy were endorsed by GoT in early 1996, and their implementation has
already started under the Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan, or ECAL and a PHRD grant. The
commitment to reform is exemplified by actions already taken or being prepared:
(a) The railway reform is well advanced: the new legislation has been drafted, approved by the
GoT and sent to Parliament for voting on before the end of 1998; the performance contract
was signed on February 13, 1998; a first step toward implementation of the new organization
along business lines, the head of the future phosphate transport unit has been selected and is
expected to be appointed by the board on its next meeting in early June 1998;
(b) The GoT has moved decisively on the implementation of critical actions, including the
politically sensitive port reform designed in particular to eliminate the cargo handling public
monopoly and restrictive dock worker practices: new legislation on ports and maritime trade
has been submitted to Parliament for a vote in coming months. The preparation work for
restructuring the public cargo handling company, STAM (Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de
Manutention) is already far advanced.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Having assisted in formulating the transport strategy, the Bank is well prepared to help in its
implementation. The proposed institutional changes have yet to take root in Tunisia, and the MT would
more easily adjust to the new functions that go with privatization and market deregulation if it can tap the
Bank's international experience. Because the reform agenda is substantial and would have impacts well
beyond the limits of the transport sector, it can also be inferred that Bank and other donor support would
give MT some needed extra weight to overcome possible obstacles. Finally, other donors would also be
able to sharpen their interventions in the sector through exchange of information with the Bank. More
broadly, the APL would provide a most suitable framework for an in-depth dialogue on sector
development, while focusing on key subsectors in a gradual, harmonized way.



Page 1 1
E: Summary Program and Project Analysis
1. Economic (supported by An7nex 4. Detailed assessments are in thze project file).
Program
The program is designed to increase transport productivity, mainly through implementation of reforms
conducive to improved allocation of scarce public resources and increased participation of private capital.
Because of the predominantly qualitative aspects of Bank support to the program (the Bank support to
investments over 7 years is not expected to exceed 10 percent of total financing needed), the great
diversity of investment subprojects across the transport sector, and the still uncertain nature of transport
investments beyond the Ninth Plan (2002 and after), an overall measure of the program value added is
not practical. Such an aggregate measure would call for the definition and integration of the many
parameters linking transport efficiency to economic growth in Tunisia.  Without going into the
complexities of a full economic analysis, it is safe to say that reforms to eliminate some of the most
constraining economic bottlenecks are bound to generate very high returns.
Project
Cost-benefit analysis was used to assess the economic justification of specific investment components. At
present, the economic evaluation has been carried out for investments expected to be launched in the first
year of project implementation, namely:
(a) quay rehabilitation at Bizerte: NPV (at 1 0%)=US$ 6.2 million; ERR= 20%
(b)track doubling on the Tunis-Sousse line: NPV (at 10%)=US$ 10.1 million; ERR= 14%
(c) redundancy program at SNCFT: NPV (at 10%)=US$ 29 million; Modified ERR=22%.
Finally, investments eligibility criteria would require a minimum IRR of 10 percent for all investments to
be financed. The methodology to be used for the economic evaluation has been agreed with the GoT and
is included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
2. Financial: NPV=US$ (not applicable); FRR= (not applicable)
Annex 5 presents a full financial assessment of SNCFT and OPNT; it does measure the aggregate impact
of project related flows, but does not calculate the financial return of specific project activities. The
financial evaluation deals with the overall financial health of the company.
Fiscal impact of the program and project:
To help the railway company to compete with other land transport modes, the GoT would subsidize it at
about US$80 million per year during the Ninth Plan, which is about 20 percent less than the subsidy
would be without the railway reform. The rationale for maintaining subsidies to inter-urban collective
taxis, which impose an annual burden of US$5 million on the budget, will be reassessed. As the Tenth
Plan starts, the railway company will be expected to pay its way, and the GoT will only continue
servicing past loans and will compensate SNCFT for the delivery of services that it imposes on the
railway company. Overall, the GoT budget will contribute no more than US$40 million in 2002, and this
amount will decrease to US$15 million (at constant 1997 prices) once the GoT loans are fully repaid.
Annual subsidies to the urban transport currently amount to some US$40 million for operations and
US$15 million for investments. In addition, financial restructuring needs have accumulated in relation to
a funding gap equivalent to some US$20 million per year. For SRTG alone, the financial rescue plan is
costed at US$70 million. Phase 2 would eliminate the funding gap and, with productivity improvements
due to materialize over the years, the bus companies would then be expected to pay their way by the end



Page 12
of the program, when they will collect no more than US$50 million from the budget (at constant 1997
prices) as compensation for low fare transport of students.
Overall, subsidies to transport would be reduced from about 0.8 percent of GDP in 1997 to 0.2 percent
seven years later. Given that, once rehabilitated, public enterprises would be able to pay taxes on their
benefits, as would the larger group of private firms in transport, subsidies to the sector would be largely
outweighed by its contributions to Treasury (profitable public enterprises in air transport and ports
already contribute about US$100 million in taxes and dividends annually).
3. Technical (project):
The feasibility studies of projected investments to start in the first year of implementation of the first
phase of the APL have been reviewed and found satisfactory. Feasibility studies of other investments
will be carried out soon after project start. In particular, the feasibility study for extension of the
breakwater in Gabes will be financed by the loan to OPNT. The other port feasibility studies, financed
from other sources, will still be subject to Bank review and approval.
4. Institutional:
The project addresses a series of important institutional reforms which were described earlier. Specific
institutional issues relate to: (a) the technically-based SNCFT organization, which must be changed
along business lines to enhance its commercial function; a decree to establish the new organization would
be prepared in accordance with recommendations of studies financed under the PHRD grant and the loan
to the Republic of Tunisia, and to be issued within the next two years; and: (b) the need for a clear
apportionment of land ownership among three public companies (Societt Nationale des Transports
Intergouvernorats, SNT and Societe du Metro Leger de Tunis). A plan for the resolution of this issue
was agreed during appraisal, and its conclusion and implementation will be assessed during the mid-term
review of the project. In addition, the national shipping line is being restructured and main options
envisaged by GoT are either to sell it in block to private interests or transform it into a holding, retaining
the ownership of the fleet, which would be operated by private shipowners.
5. Social (program andproject):
The railway severance program covers about 1500 staff (close to 20 percent of total). Basically, SNCFT
must cut labor costs if it is to ever meet the challenge of road transport competition. Social costs would
be minimized by the fact that the great majority of staff to be made redundant are less than 10 years away
from nornal retirement and entitled to pension benefits. Fewer than 10 percent of those laid off are
expected to remain perrnanently unemployed. Extensive consultations with the unions have taken place.
All of the approximately 620 staff to be laid off at the end of June 1998, 501 of which are regular, have
volunteered to leave. For urban bus transport, the severance program should affect some 1,100 staff,
mostly in Tunis, who are clearly redundant; releasing them would enable bus companies to cut costs
which, together with targeted subsidization and improved compensation systems, would pave the way to
their return to financial sustainability. Social aspects are to be looked at as a trade-off between
compromising the well being of a few employees and reducing the current woes of the great mass of bus
riders. The project would indeed correct the current anomaly that deprives the urban poor of good,
affordable transport: the priority given to students and school children diverts buses from nornal
services and leaves adult riders with costly, insufficient services (in large cities, 12 percent of the budget
of low-income people is reportedly spent on transportation).
6. Environmental assessment (program and project). Environmental Category  [ A   [X] B   []C
(a) Justification/rationale for category rating. The project does not include major new construction in the
Port and Railways components. The fully appraised investments starting in the first year of project
implementation are about rehabilitation and modernization of existing facilities which will bear no
adverse impact on the environment. Later years investments, of which the construction of an oil jetty in



Page 13
Rades is the only one deserving careful attention, will be subject to an environmental assessment (EA)
acceptable to the Bank. This was reflected in the Loan Agreement. Tunisia has developed good EA
procedures at the MinisWere de 1'Environnement et de l'Amenagement du Territoire, and would be
reviewing the EA prior to submitting it to the Bank. The project also includes some investments targeted
to improve the environment, for instance at the railway workshops, and for construction of rail overpasses
to relieve severe road traffic congestion which is known to be a major source of air pollution.
(b) The environmental policy studies on the impact of transport on the environment, led to an action plan
in which the thrust of recommendations is on prevention more than mitigation of transport-related
pollution. The two main objectives are to create monitoring capacities for air pollution in large cities, and
to establish norms within a new policy to phase out leaded gasoline and put cleaner fuels on the market. It
was agreed during negotiations that the GoT would submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1999
its action plan aimed at mitigating transport induced air pollution. Program indicators include targets for
use of cleaner fuels. The mid-term review will check progress toward implementing actions designed to
meet the environmental objectives under the sector management component, and discuss measures that
would be taken in the remaining years of project implementation.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries         Identification/preparation   Implementation    Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups
Unions                        CON                      CON
Academic institutions
Local government              CON                       CON/COL            CON/COL
Professional organizations    CON                       CON/COL            CON
Other donors (EU)             CON                      CON/COL             CON
b. Other key stakeholders:
The Shippers' Council, FNT, APIE (Agency for Promotion of Foreign Investments), and API (Agency
for promotion of investment) are expected to provide needed linkages between the public administration
and the business community. The unions would be an important catalyst for reforns dealing with
conditions of employment, and they would be in a position to smooth out problems during execution of
the severance programs scheduled under the project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability would hinge on the success of actions to liberalize commercial vehicle imports,
restructure transport taxation, design and maintain a regulatory framework conducive to private sector
participation in transport activities and healthy competition in the transport market, reorganize the railway
company, and set up a targeted and balanced system of subsidies. The GoT has already started action in
these areas. The strategy supported by the program and the project is conducive to an improved financial
and institutional framework for the transport sector, whereby project sustainability is likely.



Page 14
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1).
From Project to Program Development Objectives
Main Risk                 Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
-GoT continued commitment to the reform      N        -Adaptable lending will ensure continuous
program may waver.                                    dialogue with Government on pending
transport issues.
-Lack of a good funding mechanism for        M        - A reliable funding mechanism under
urban transport.                                      APL2.
-Pressures from transport enterprises and    M        - Creation of a management structure under
weak public management hinders good urban             APL2, including regulation mechanism by
transport regulations and planning.                   which users and operators can make their
views known.
From Project Outputs to Project Development Objectives
Main Risk                 Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
-Limited access by foreign investors and     M        -Pilot concessions will be promoted under
private operators in ports and shipping.              the program to quell fears of foreign
domination. Legal restrictions will be
removed/softened.
-Lack of term financing for private investors  N      -The Bank-supported financial sector
in transport.                                         reform will help create a more demand-
responsive market.
-Ineffective enforcement of new regulations   N       - Second phase APL will provide continued
by the public administration.                         assistance to sector management.
-Failure to disseminate efficient trade               - The MEDA program funded by the EU
logistics among traders and transport        M        will help effective dissemination of best
entrepreneurs.                                        practice in logistics.
From Project Components to Outputs
Main Risk                  Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
-Loose coordination of project entities.      M        -Coordination mechanism at MT
established.
-Continued subsidization by SNCFT of          N        -Signing of a new contract between SNCFT
phosphate rail transport.                              and CPG is a dated covenant.
-Procrastination on closing loss-making       N        -Project conditionality (dated covenant).
railway services.
-Delays in launching actions to modernize     M        -Coordination with the EU which is to fund
customs procedures and promote trade                  related actions within its MEDA program.
facilitation in the port and maritime sectors.
Overall project risk rating                  M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Sustained GoT commitment to the proposed reforms would be the most critical determinant of project
success.  Some of the reforms, especially those related to restructuring of the public enterprises
(privatization, redundancies, greater autonomy) are politically sensitive. Taking into account theupfront
actions already undertaken (amendment of laws to eliminate the CTN chartering right and open all ports
to private competition; submission to Parliament of the port and maritime trade laws; submission to
Parliament of railway laws on financial rehabilitation, the new SNCFT statute, and the railway police) or
underway (preparation of STAM and CTN restructuring plans; finalization of draft decrees on the
SNCFT statutory mission - Cahier des Charges - and on the railway concession agreement, launching of



Page 15
studies to reorganize phosphate transport, and nearing completion of the study on low-density passenger
railway services), the risks are considered to be acceptable. The APL design reduces such risks and
would enable all parties to reassess the local ownership of reforms.
3. Possible controversial aspects:
(a) The project would finance layoffs of excess staff in public transport enterprises, and the Bank may
be accused as a promoter of job destruction.
(b) The project would favour larger foreign participation in transport activities as a way to transfer
technologies and know-how to Tunisia; this could be misconstrued as an attempt to recolonize the
local economy.
(c) Finally, the project would seek closure of uneconomical railway services, and social groups
affected may denounce it as insensitive to their needs if they have to pay more for unsubsidized
replacement bus services.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Condition of disbursement
Before financing of the port infrastructure works, the Bank will have to approve the feasibility and
environmental assessment studies for their design and planning, and be satisfied with the financial and
economic criteria applicable therefor.
2. Dated covenants
(a) Publication of Decree approving the new Cahier des Charges of SNCFT and the railway concession
agreement by March 31, 1999.
(b) Signing of an agreement acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1999 between GoT and OPNT on
the settlement of liabilities under the Gabes management account, and, by June 30, 1999, on the
repayment of the Third Port local loan.
(c) Establishment of a pilot phosphate transport unit within SNCFT by March 31, 1999.
(d) Signing of a new railway tariff contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between SNCFT and CPG by
March 31, 1999.
(e) No later than March 31, 1999, submission to GoT by SNCFT of a methodology and formal guidelines
to determine the financial profitability of passenger services.
(f) Before June 30, 1999 agreement between SNCFT and GoT on the methodology and guidelines to be
used to determine the financial profitability of passenger services.
(g) From June 30, 1999 onward, full entitlement for SNCFT to either discontinue any of its passenger
services that does not meet the financial profitability criteria or to be fully compensated by theGoT
for financial losses incurred in continuing such service as a public service obligation.
(h) Signing of contracts by June 30, 1999 between the GoT and SNCFT for provision of passenger
transport in the southern suburb of Tunis and the area of Sousse-Sahel as a fully compensated public
service obligation.
(i) Publication of a decree implementing the SNCFT reorganization along business lines by June 30,
2000.
(j) Revision of OPNT's tariff by 9.3 percent (weighted average increase at unchanged traffic level and
structure) no later than December 31, 1998, to be applied from the following Fiscal Year; revision
and restructuring of the OPNT tariff by another 9.3 percent no later than December 31, 2000 also to
be applied from the following Fiscal Year, together with the implementation of a more independent
port pricing regulation system.
(k) Carrying out of a mid-term review around October 31, 2000. Terms of reference for the review were
agreed at negotiations and would include the review and agreement on: (i) progress in
implementation of trade facilitation measures and modernization of the port organization and



Page 16
equipment; (ii) progress in the implementation of the railway staff redundancy program; (iii) status of
the transfer of land titles to SNTRI, SNT, and SMLT on the land formerly owned by the single
company which was recently split into three; (iv) the pricing policies for ports, railway, and land
transport; (v) status of implementation of the urban and inter-city subsector reforms; and (vi) progress
achieved in carrying out the program and moving toward agreed milestones triggering phase 2 of the
APL, and recommendations on future action designed to meet project objectives during the remaining
years of implementation.
(I) Submission by the GoT no later than December 31, 1999 of its action plan for mitigation of transport
induced air pollution.
3. Financial covenants
(a) For OPNT, maintaining from 1998 onward: (i) a working ratio of 0.50 or less; (ii) a debt to equity
ratio of no more than 55-45; (iii) a current ratio of no less than 1.
(b) For SNCFT: (i) lowering the labor cost to operating revenue ratio to no less than 0.6 in 1998, 0.55 in
1999, 0.53 in 2000, 0.50 in 2001, and 0.45 in following years; (ii) maintaining the debt service ratio
above 1.2 from 1999 onward; (iii) maintaining the current ratio above I from 1999 onward.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] A draft Project Implementation Plan was reviewed during appraisal and a revised version is being
finalized to incorporate Bank comments and changes reflecting the outcome of negotiations.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Michel Loir
Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiari
Country Director Christian Delvoie



Annex la. Transport Reform and Investment Program. Long Term Design Summary
Narrative summary                Measurable indicators                                Monitoring & supervision    Assumptions and risks
CAS Objective                                                                                                      (CAS Objective to Bank Mission)
-future CAS reviews         - Limited incidence of drought.
Faster economic growth and global   - Acceleration of GDP growth to over 5% after 2000.  -Portfolio management and  - Continuation of social peace.
market integration                - Budget deficit to GDP: < 3% after 2000.           discussion with government.    - Steadfast govemment commitment to a market-
- Free flow of goods between Tunisia and the EU in 2009.   -Sector and project work.  based/outward looking economy.
Development Objectives                                                                                             From development objectives to goals
- Sector investment share of GDP rising to 3.5% in 2005.    - Sample impact studies 5 y.    -Timely progress on macroeconomic reforms ensuring
Co*eficient, sey(sstained & quality  - Sector revenues: labor productivity increase of 50%  after closing date of APLI  that transport savings are passed on to consumers.
trmsotn is availabe to traders and  (sector GDP per transport staff) between 1998 and 2005.  - Monitoring tools to develop    -Achievement of a strong financial sector,
peqe.                             - Private sector share of transport investment rising from  with rirst loan support.  - Thorough implementation of the free-trade agreement with
23% in the eighth plan to over 50% in 2005.         - Supervision reports of     the European Union and full meeting of obligations under the
Transport pollution risks are     - Reduction of transport subsidies from about 0.8% of GDP   successive loans     World Trade Organization agreement.
mitigated in najor cities        to about 0.2% in 2005.                               - ICRs of successive loans.  - The risk of emergence of private monopolies and cartels
- In 2005, the lead content of gas not exceeding 0,15g/1;  - PADs for APL2 and, if  (local or foreign) is contained through efficient sector market
share of unleaded gas in total gas consumption above 1/3;   needed, the follow up  monitoring and management by the ministry of transport.
share of sulphur below 0,05% of diesel weight.      operation.
Program Outputs                                                                                                    From Program output to DOs
I. Sector Management                       1. Sector Management                 -Statistics maintained by    - Transport reforms are followed through; policies are
The capacity building in public   - A new transport data base is opeational in 2000.  OPNT, SNCFr. and other       adjusted as needed to fit changing circumstances.
management is effective: good     - Master plans for national and urban transport are  public entities involved.
planning and policy making help   available in 2001 and updated regularly thereafter.                              - Enactment of a satisfactory customs code and liberalization
achieve cheaper and better transport.   - No transport tax distortions after 2005.    -Ad hoc surveys in studies   of transport equipment imports.
2. Railways                                2. Railways                      carried out during preparation
The reform program to make SNCFT   - "Commercialization" of railways effective in 2001.  to be repeated at mid-term of    - Local management has built human and financial capacity
compebtive and financially        - loss-making services discontinued after June 1999 unless   phase I and one year after its   to harmonize transport and urban development plans.
autonomous is brought to fruition.    requested and fully compensated by GoT.         completion.                                                                             > 
Performance enhancing investments   - Tunis-Gabes and Tunis-Ghardimaou track modemization                          - Professionalization of transporters.                    to
have been done.                   works are completed by 2005.                        - Special monitoring system to
- at least 10% of intercity traffic railroaded in 2005.  be set up at MT will measure    - Competition among transporters without market failures
3. Ports & shipping                        3. Ports & shipping                 project impacts.             permit cost savings to be effectively passed on to users.
The reform program toward private    - New port legislation implemented in 1998.
sector led operations is completed.    - Towage is privatized in 2002.                - PADs of phase 2 and 3.     - Within the framework of the WTO and EU agreements,
Pmgramm investments to renovate and   - Full restructuring of CTN by 2001 and STAM by 2002.                        foreign firms are allowed in local port,freight forwarding and
expand ports have been            - A BOT container berth in Rades starts operating in 2005.   - Supervision reports of phase    multimodal activities and contribute to technological transfer.
implemented.                                4. Urban and interurban transport         2 and 3.
4. Urban and interurban transport   - A new management structure is set up in Tunis in 2001.                      - Govemment is investing timely in road infrastructure,
The reform to provide affordable  - A stable funding mechanism is operational in 2001  - ICR for phase 1.          maintains it adequately. Road safety issues are adressed.
while financially sustainable public    - Public transport share of traffic stays above 50% in Tunis.
transport in and between cides is  - In 2005, private sector participation reaches 5% of bus                       - Development of a national air pollution monitoring network.
brought to fruition; privatization of    transport in Tunis and nearly 100% of nationwide
services Is in progress; performance   interurban bus transport.
enhancing invesments are
completed.                                                                            _



Preram Components                 Key Performance Indicators                             Monitoring & supervision     From Components to Output
I) Loan amount of USS 50 million of which US$13 million   MT periodic reporting on  - Continued commitment by government to project reforms
I ) APL Phase I                   for OPNT.                                             execution of the Ninth Plan.  and transport strategy agreed with the Bank;
Govemment and/or Grant financing of about US$30
Reform and modernization of the   million                                                Project coordination unit at  - Good project management and efficient coordination of
railway and maritime sector                                                              MT reporting along pre-      entities involved;
[see description in APLI logframel                                                       established guidelines.
2) Loan (s) totalling about USS 32 million launched when                            - Good Bank supervision; thorough Mid-term review.
2) APL PhLg 2                     nagreed milestones of prgram implementation are met    Reporting by public entities
(expected date: 2001) for:                            receiving project support.    - Good performance by consultants;
Urban transport reform and public  - severance payments to some 1I 00 redundant staff of the
transport rehabilitation.          public Iransport companies;                           Bank supervision missions.    - Private transporters are able to change behavior from a
- capacity building in urban transport management;                                 government dependent mind set and perceptions to swift
- investments designed to enhance productivity of urban  Annual project auditing.  response to market incentives
public transport.
Regular contacts with the EU  - Possible launching of a follow-up operation (Sector
about progress of their      Investment Loan or another APL, depending on needs and
financial assistance program  constraints at the time the decision is made).
for Southem Mediterranean
-____________________________________     countries (MEDA   program)
a'



Annex l.b  Trans ort Reform and Investment Program. Design Summary for Phase I
Narrative Sommury                                          Key Performance Indicators                            Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                                                                                   From CAS Objectives to Bank Mission
Fasitr economic growth and global market integration through:
Acceleration of GDP growth to over 5% after 2000.   -future CAS reviews            - Limited incidence of drought.
reduction of public deficit                            - Budget deficit to GDP: < 3% after 2000.             -Portfolio management and      - Continuation of social peace.
liberalization and improved trade-related services;    - Private investment > 50% of total investment by 2002.  discussion with govemment.  - Steadfast govemment commitment to a market-
increased private sector participation.                                                                      -Sector and project work.      based/outward looking economy.
Development Objectives                                                                                                                          From development objectives to goals
A Costeffide.n4 -re4f-srtd&qat tm   rtisalalik    - Sector investment share of GDP rising to 3 % in 2002.  - Monitoring tools to develop  -Timely progress on macroeconomic reforms
to&adsandpepk.by:                                 - Sector revenues: labor productivity increase of 30% (sector  with first loan support.  (producers in industry, mining and agriculture
GDP per transport staff) between 1998 and 2002.       - Supervision reports of      can then take advantage of decreased transport
- setting up an institutional framework conducive to  Private sector share of transport investment to rise from 23%   successive loans.  costs to expand their market shares).
private participation in maritme and port activities;  in the eighth plan to over 35% in 2002.          - ICRs of successive loans.    -Achievement of a strong financial sector.
- reforming the railways to promote commercial    - Reduction of transport subsidies from about 0.8% of GDP    - PADs for Phase 2 of the APL  - Liberalization of vehicle imports and
dynamism:                                         to less than 0.4% in 2002.                            and, if its need is confirmed, the   elimination of tax distortions on the transport
- refornning bus transport to make it sustainable and  - No more financial rehabilitation of transport enterprises.    follow up operation.  market.
keep it affordable for low income revenue users   - Small trucks share of t-km: from 40% to less than 1/13.%.                          - Successful decentralization of managerial and
B. Transport pollution risks are mitigated in major  in 2002.                                                                          financial responsibilides for urban transport.
cities through:                                   - In 2002: lead content of gas not exceeding 0,15g/l; share of                       - Successful implementadon of the EU financed
unleaded gas in total gas consumption above 20%; share of                           assistance to revision of the customs code and
- resort to cleaner fuels;                        sulphur below 0,05% of diesel weight                                                 development of trade facilitation measures.
- good nonitoring of the air quality.                                                                                                  - The risk of emergence of private monopolies
and cartels (local or foreign) is contained through
efficient sector market monitoring and
I ___________________________________________               ___________________________I____________              ______________________         m anagem ent by   the   M inistry   of  Transport.
smnall trucks are defined as those of less than 3.5 gross ton-weight.



Narmrtive Summary                                              Key Perrormance Indicators                                 Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptons and Risks
APLI Outputs                                                                                                                                                From Outputs to Development Objectives
A. Ingplmenmation oef rforMr aloeg the aereed strafev
1. Railways                                               For the railways:                      -Statistics maintained by OPNT,    - The urban transport reformn is implemented.
a.Commercialize SNCFr.                                         - Passing of legislation, issuance of related regulations: 1998.    SNCFT, and other public entities
b.Reorganize SNCFT along its lines of business.                - Decree to establish the new organization before June 2000.    involved.                    - Foreigners can access to local port,freight
c.Cancel railways loss-making services not compensated by GoT.  - Closure of current loss-making services by June 1999.   -Ad hoc surveys in studies carried   forwarding and multimodal activities to
2. Ports & shipping                                              for ports:                          out during preparation to be     foster technological transfer.
a)Transfortn OPNT as a landlord port.                          a) Implementation of the new port legislation: 1998.       repeated at mid-term of phase I
b)Open ports to competitive private cargo handling.            b) Private share of general cargo handling: near 100% in 2002.  and one year after its completion.    - The government commitment to complete
c)Develop private port management under concessions            c) Bids for container quay BOT in Rades invited by June    -Reporting on plan execution by   reforms is sustained.
d)Restructure STAM and CTN.                                     1999.                                                     Ministere du Developpernent
e) Privatize towage.                                           d) STAM restructured by 2001 and CTN by 2002.              Economique and MT;                - Enactment of a satisfactory customs code
3. Sector Management                       e) Towage privatized by 2002.                              - Special monitoring system to be    and liberalization of transport equipment
a)Remove restrictions to import of commercial vehicles.                         for sector management:                    set up at MT will mneasure project   imports.
b)Streamline transport user charges.                           a) liberalization measures effective by 2001.             impacts.
c)Uberalize trucking for vehicles of less than 12 GTW.         b) Plan to correct transport tax distortions adopted by 2000.                                - The ECAL reforms are fully completed.
d)Promote market based pricing of services.                    c) Reguladons in effect before the end of 1998.            Appraisal of APL2: data
4. Preparation of APL2:                     d) Pricing freedom from 2001 except for urban transport.   collection and discussions with   - Good term financing for transport
- assistance to definition of financial and management reforms for              4. Preparation of APL2:                   government and other              equipment is made available to operators
urban transport.                                               - Completion of the PHRD study: October 1998.              stakeholders involved in the      (particularly for purchase of cargo handling
B. Vlgrading and rehabilitation of transport facilitie: TA: Ihe  - Adoption by Government of a Reform Plan before 2001.   program.                          equipment).
project will generally help implement the IXth Investment Plan.  ............    ...........- ..--
More direct output from activities included in the project are:  -Ex-post project ERRs in general;                        Bank supervision reports during   - Professionalization of transporters.
-Implementation rate of the Ninth Plan: >90%.             implementation of Phase 1.                                                   0
I. Railways                           -Full disbursement of the Bank loan for Phase 1.                                             - Effective enforcement of revised
a) Trck modernization between Tunis and Sousse.                                     For the railways:                     Assessment by professional        regulations by the administration in matters
b) Better tramffc control.                                     a) Passenger travel time Tunis-Sousse cut by 30' by 2002.  associations of impacts of        of professional and technical norms, road
c) Environmentally safer workshops.                             b) Avge.delays of passenger trains: cut by half on that line,  dissemination of trade and   safety and fiscal obligations;
d) Better management and impmved costing.                      c) Completion of modernization works by 2001;              transport logistics under the
c) Leaner but better trained staff.                             d) Full coverage of costs by phosphate tariff: 1999;      project.                          - Good dissemination of efficient trade
2. Ports & shipping                       e) Traffic units per SNCFT staff up lo 600 in 2002.                                          logistics among transporters and traders.
a) Rehabilitated and upgraded port infrastnscture.                                     For ports:                         Regular meeting with the EU to
b) More efficient port management.                             a) Tons handled/hour/ship at berth up 25% in 2002.         discuss progress of actions led by    - Govemment is investing timely in road
c) Improved port pricing.                                      b) Port transit time for general cargo cut by 30% in 2002.  them for revision of the customs  infrastructure, maintains it adequately.
3. Sector management:                      c) Combined port bill for containers reduced by 30% in 2002.   reform, trade facilitation and port
a) Timely adoption of the transport plan for 2002-2006.                         For sector management:                    productivity improvements.        - Implementation of anti-pollution norms on
b) Creation of a comprehensive sector data base.               a) the draft plan is ready by June 2001;                                                     transport fuels and of a pollution monitoring
c) Capacity building at the MT: trained staff is available.    b) A national MIS for transport is operational in 2001.    ICR for phase I of the APL.       network.
d) Large application by operators in the sector largely of modem  c) Physical and financial indicators published from 2000
trade & transport logistics.                                   onward within three months.
e) Streamlining of customs procedures and access to new ED]    d) Share of tunisian operators in total international transport:
systems in support of trade facilitation.                      contracts: no less than 35% in value.
e) "Liasse unique" and SITAIP projects operational by 2000.
4. PrWsraration of APL2:
- sound city tmansport master plans.                                            4. Preparation qf[APL2:
- updating of plans completed by March 2001.                                              ,



Narrative Sunmmry                                           Key Perfornmance Indicators                             Monitoring and Supervision  I Critical Assumptions and Risks
Phan  1. Project Components                                 Bank eligibility criteria to be met by subprojects are:                                  From Components to Outputs
(i) ex-ante ERR of at least 10%;                    Operations of the Project
A. Funding priority exetnditures in:                           (ii) compliance with Bank procurement rules;         coordination unit along pre-     - Continued commitment by govemrnment to
(iii) no unmnitigated harm to the environment;      established guidelines,           project reforms and transport strategy
1. Railways                         Lontt amount earmarked for Railways: US$32.1 m.                                          agreed with the Bank;
(a) 72 km of track doubling between Tunis and Sousse         (a) Launching of works: January 98; completion: Dec 2000.    MT periodic reporting.
(b) Track renewal on the Tunis-Ghardimaou line.              (b) Launching of works: January 99; completion Dec2001.                                 - Enough autonomy granted to transport
(c) Construction of road overpasses at Hammam Lif and Ezzahra.  (c) Launching of works; January 99; completion June 2000.    Reporting by project associated  PEs;
(d) Upgrading of the wotkshops'envionment.                   (d) Launching of works: June 99; completion December 99.    entities (public enterprises directly
(e) Financing severance for railway staff.                   (e) 1500 redundancies financed by Dec 2001.            supported by the project.         - Good project management and efficient
2. Ports & shipping                     Loan amount earmarked for xorts: US$ 13 m.                                               coordination of entities involved;
(a) rehabilitation of the comnmercial berths at Bizerte.     (a) launching of works: Dec. 98; completion:Dec 2000.  Bank supervision missions.
(b) Extension and redesign of the Gabes breakwater.          (b) launching of works: Jan 2000; completion June 2001.                                  - Good Bank supervision: thorough Mid-
(d) construction of an oil jetty at Rades.                   (c) launching of works: Jan 2001; completion: June 2002.  Annual project auditing.      term review.
B. Tecncal assistance (_A). studie and trainine             B. Resources allocated to technical assistance: US$16.4 m:  Bank sector missions and      - Good performance by consultants;
- Bank Loan: total financing of US$9.4 m.               backstopping from headquarters.
- GoT financing: (i) some US$3.5 m. to finance TA related                                - Increase of the railway tariff for
to customs and port reforms, and trade facilitation., including                          phosphate;
needed hardware and software (ii) US$3.5m for an air quality
monitoring network.                                                                      - Eatly closure of uneconomic railway
Bank finaid:                                                                             services.
1. Railways                                             1. Railways (US$2 m)
(a) MIS development along the new organization.              (a) Launching of study: January 1999.                                                    - Willingness by transporters and traders to
(b) TA to implement the new railway organization.            (b) Launching of study: January 1999.                                                    actively participate to project activities for   t
(c) training and study trips.                                (c) Training over January 1999-December 2001.                                            good dissemination of best practices in
2. Ports & shipping                                        2. Ports & shipping (US$2.3 m)                                        logistics.
(a) Studies for institutional development (prmotion of BOT    (a) Bidding documents for port BOT ready by May 1999;
schemes. privatization).                                    other studies caried out over January 1999-Dcember 2001.                                  - Early apprval and implementation of the
(b) Feasibility studies of port investment sub-projects.     (b) Execution over January 1999-December 1999.                                           BU grant.
(c) Tariff restructuring and regulation study.               (c) Execution over January 1999-October 1999.
(d) Development of an integrated data transmission system and of a    (d & e) Execution over January 1999-December 2001.                              - Launching of APL Phase 2..
single trade document ("liasse unique").
(e) TA to implementation of port reforms.                    (f) Execution over January 1999-December 2000.
(D) Training.                                                                  3. Sector management(US$5.1 m).
3. Sector management                      (a & b) Execution over January 1999-December 2001.
(a) Ad-hoc expert assistMce to MT and enterprises it oversees.
(b) TA to developmnent of a transport data base.             (c) Execution over January 2000-Marech 2001.
(c) Update of urba transport master plans (Tunis,Sfax, Sousse).  (d) Execution over January 1999-March 2001.
(d) Study for prepartion of a national transport plan.       (e) Installation of facilities over June 99-June 2000.
(e) Creation of an air-quality monitoring network in major cities.  (f) Execution over January 1999-June 2000.
(f) Staff training at MT.                                                       4. Urban transport (p.m.)
4. Urban transport                       Ongoing study by consultant fimanced by a PHRD grant.
(a) Technical assistanc to definition of reforms;            Bank sector and supervision missions plus back-stopping at
(b) Bank dialogue with governnent on options and facilitation of  headquarters.
decisions.                                                  _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _



Page 22
Annex lc
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
TRANSPORT POLICY LETTER
May 27, 1998
Mr. President,
The transportation sector plays an important role in concretizing the strategies and
objectives of the development process, especially with regards to the support it brings to other
sectors.
Over the past few years, the transport sector has undergone many reforms in the that have
targeted a reduction of expenditures through liberalization, reorganizing- and restructuring its
various activities.
During the Eighth Plan (1992-1996) (8th Plan), these reforms focused primarily on the
development of the regulatory framework and its liberalization, sector restructuring and
improvement of its services.
With regard to the legal and regulatory framnework, new laws concerning shipping and
freight forwarding  sea-bounded professions as well as land transportation have been
promulgated. These measures led to the birth of new private enterprises which, by competing
with each other, increased the sector's capacity to respond to market needs.
As far as restructuring of the sector is concerned, Performance Contracts were signed
with certain public enterprises, and freight enterprises were completely privatized.
Investments during the same period reached around DT 1,473 million (1996 rates).
Thanks to these reforms, the transport sector delivered a good performance, particularly with
regard to annual growth reached 6.6 percent.
The Ninth Plan (1997-2001) is expected to reinforce the reforms that were undertaken
during the previous Plan so as to be able to reach a level of competitively sufficient to support
the productive sectors and exporters, and the national economy thereby facilitating its integration
into the world economy, especially now that the agreements with the World Trade Organization
and for free-trade with the European Union have been signed.



Page 23
In this regard, the Tunisian Government has now drawn up a new development strategy
for the years 1997 to 2010. The Ninth Plan endorses this strategy which consists of the
following keypoints:
I.    Promote quality investments to increase equipment productivity by adapting it to
economic needs, while ensuring a reinforcement of road infrastructure, and improving road
maintenance.
2.    Encourage private initiatives to  invest in infrastructure projects, especially through
concessions.
3.    Assist in directing State intervention with regard to urban transportation compensation.
4.    Make means of transportation available and take the necessary measures to renew the
existing fleet in order to bring both maintenance and gas consumption costs down and to protect
the environment from pollution.
5.    Adapt the legal framework to a more liberal transportation sector and introduce greater
flexibility in the management of public enterprises to reduce expenses and increase productivity.
6.    Develop multimodal transport in order to increase productivity by means of decreasing
transportation costs and improving traffic fluidity.
7.    Promote domestic and foreign partnership in the transport sector.
8.    Transfer the development of commercial services from the public to the private sector in
order to increase their productivity and bring down users' costs.
9.    Review the role of the central administration in order to delegate certain technical tasks to
specialized units.
Bearing in mind these principles, the Ninth Plan is expected to be around 6 percent per
annum. This growth would result mostly from the shipping industry's increased production
levels and from the positive impact of increased economic activity in the area of land transport
and of air transport on the tourist sector.
Total investments should reach an estimated DT 2,372 million (1996 rates), with: 336
million for the railroad subsector, 781 million to the highway subsector, 625 million to the
shipping subsector and 630 million to air transportation.
Though greater flexibility is given to the private sector, the State remains responsible for
common good. Deprived of the direct means of intervention in managing the economy provided
by a vast public sector, the State now needs to reinforce its presence in other areas where its
involvement remain essential, such as the long term planning of infrastructure, the legal and
regulatory framework, and regulating and controlling the smooth functioning of the market.
Measures will be taken to supply the public administration in charge of the transportation sector
with the necessary physical to fulfill these responsibilities in the most efficient way.
The Tunisian Government intends to continue the same policy during the Tenth Plan
(2002-2006), by focusing on improving the quality of services, privatizing competitive activities



Page 24
and by reinforcing the role played by local communities in the organization of public transport
services.
This is the general context in which the various actions undertaken by the Govermnent
should be approached.
Ports and Shipping
(a) The implementation of the Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation (CTN) restructuring
Plan will be completed at the latest by 2001, following a strategy which, whether supported by
private investments or not, will enable CTN to face the competition emanating from Tunisian
and foreign shipowners, with no commercial privileges or subsidies, but also without any
constraint as far as the choice of suppliers and services providers is concerned.
(b) The laws and taxes regulating the shipping sector will be adjusted before December
2001 in order to allow private ship owners to choose freely their areas of activity and means of
production within the framework of the country's general sector policy. Financial systems that
would enable private ship owners to develop and modernize their fleet would need to be made
available for them.
(c) The legal and regulatory framework for ports will be in place before the end of 1999.
The consolidated port administration (ONPT and Direction de la Marine marchande) will
withdraw from the commercial activity: before December 1999 for consigrnent of goods; and
before June 30, 2002 for haulage. When the opportunity arises, equipment of ports will be
assigned to the private sector.
(d) Implementation of the restructuring plan for the Tunisian Stevedoring and Handling
Company (STAM - Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention) will be completed before
2002. This plan will remain compatible with the development of private handling activities in
ports. As of 2000, STAM will no longer benefit from any direct or indirect Government
assistance and distortions of competition in the handling market will be prevented or addressed.
(e) Private enterprises will be allowed to handle cargo in the ports of Rades and La
Goulette before December 31, 2000.
(f)  Cargo handling in Tunisian ports will be reorganized before December 31, 2000. The
goal is to reach an agreement concerning the relation between the port authority and the service
enterprises, and to develop ways and means to acquire necessary equipment to increase
productivity in port installations.
(g) Development of specialized port terminals will be a priority within the concession
system for construction and operation over a fixed period of time. This policy will be initiated
for the construction of the new container wharf of Rades with the goal of launching concession
bidding before June 30, 2000.
(h) Finally, OPNT tariffs will be restructured and modernized. A system regulating
OPNT's tariffs will simultaneously be put in place as well as enterprises providing port services
with a view to limiting arbitrary practices and strengthening the role of the port community in the
decision-making process. These actions will be implemented at the latest by December 31, 2000.



Page 25
Railroad transportation
The strategy consists of transforming SNCFT into a commercial enterprise, which will be
competing with other types of transport and will be specializing on market windows where it has
real comparative advantages. To the extent that this strategy materializes, the railway company
will be able to assume its own financing, thereby reducing the burden of subsidies to the sector
on the State budget and strengthening its management autonomy.
(a) Changing the institutional franework
The objective is to clarify the enterprise relationship with its overseeing entity, determine
the Government's assistance in financing the renewal and maintenance of fixed facilities, and
define the public service responsibilities that the State could impose on the railway company, but
the costs of which should be fully compensated by the State. With respect to the restructuring of
the institutional framework, the Government has already submitted to the Chamber of Deputies
three draft laws relating to the revision of SNCFT statutes, discharge of its liabilities and reform
of railroad policy. The implementation decrees will shortly follow approval of this legislation.
(b) Reorganization of the SNCFT by activities
The reorganization of the SNCFT by sector of activities is one of the necessary tools that
will enable the enterprise to operate on a trade-oriented management mode. It consists of
creating within the enterprise four separate specialized units capable of dealing efficiently with
the following issues: phosphate transportation, long distance travel services, suburban travel
services and freight transportation.
Each unit would be in charge of the commercial aspects of its activities as well as the
exploitation of the human and material resources with which the unit would be provided. The
SNCFT has suggested contracting through an independent consultant the creation and
implementation of the new organization.
(c) Price cuts
This effort will take place on several levels. First, the Ninth Plan provides for the carrying
out of an investment program in a total amount close to DT 300 million. Improvements in
productivity and security resulting thereof will allow the enterprise to reduce production costs.
Second, the Performance contract requires that SNCFT adjusts its manpower according to the
needs of the expected traffic. Hiring during the period of the Ninth Plan will be limited to the
needs for maintenance or reinforcement of essential functions, and a reduction in manpower
(almost 1,500 permanent as well as temporary staff) is expected to take place before the end of
the year 2001. Finally, passenger services with low traffic will be streamlined. Should they be
maintained, the State would compensate any losses suffered by the enterprises in the framework
of a specific contract.
(d) Increasing the participation of the private sector
Within its policy to streamline management and reduce costs, the company will
progressively reduce the importance of works through force account and will subcontract with
the private sector for such services as printing, maintenance of production material, catering and
any other services that would be available at lower cost in a market open to competition.



Page 26
(e) Financial autonomy
In the framework of the Ninth Plan, the State is providing an exceptional financial support to
SNCFT in order to help the company adjust technically. This aid will increase its infrastructure
capacity to the point that SNCFT will be able to compete with road transports and recover part of
the freight and container traffic, as well as any other traffic where the company has a
comparative advantage.
Before the end of the year 2003, State support will be limited to the construction of new
lines and track renewal, against payment by SNCFT of a fee to refund the renewal costs.
Road transportation of freight
The liberalization of this sector has been completed, and the Governnent is resolved to
maintain a competitive market and contractual freedom regime. It will be responsible for
ensuring that the market runs smoothly and will equip itself with sufficient information resources
to allow for the correction of attempts at creating cartels and prevention of private monopolies.
The creation of a Transport Observatory (Observatoire des Transports) to become operational
before December 31, 2001 will specifically address this issue.
To prevent unauthorized public transport from continuing to threaten the stability of the
market and compromise the existence of well organized trucking companies providing quality
service, the Government will enforce controls on major highways; it will also develop means for
controlling the technical quality of vehicles at the regional level.
Public transport in cities
The improvement of public transport is one of the main thrusts of the Tunisian transport
development policy with the emphasis being placed on transports by bus. This means of
transportation is currently undergoing operating constraints, and is subject to poor coordination
with other urban transport systems, and to financing constraints that prevent it from developing
normally and slowing down the rapid growth of private transport. These constraints give rise to
a relative inefficiency of the services while imposing a heavy financial burden on the State. The
reduced transport tariff for university and school-age students decreases the service supply to
other consumers, and costs the State more than DT5O million a year. The development of bus
services is regarded as a means of alleviating urban congestion and reducing the pressure
imposed by the demand in transport on the rapidly increasing costs of urban sanitation
development.
The Government's strategy is to create conditions allowing a financially viable public
transportation system by bus that develops according to its needs. The main actions lie first with
management: there is a need to reinforce participation of local communities in decision-making
concerning the adaptation of supply and demand for public transportation, in order to better adapt
services to the constraints of the urban development and coordinate the means available.
Participation of the private sector will also be encouraged. The other essential component of the
reform will be the establishment of a stable financing system for urban transportation. Other
actions concern the financial reorganization of bus enterprises and the establishment of a new
compensation system for public service obligations.



Page 27
The details governing the administrative and financial reform plan for urban transportation
by bus have not yet been decided upon. The following decisions have been made by the
Government in order for the reforms to materialize before December 31, 2001.
(a) First, the Government deemed it necessary to analyze further the diagnosis on the
deficiencies noted above, and a consultant was hired for that purpose early in 1998; his report
will be ready before the end of 1998. An ad hoc committee will then be created to review the
consultant's proposals and set up a complete action plan to be submitted for the Government's
approval before December 31, 2000. The implementation of the urban transports management
and finance reform will follow the adoption of the required legal and regulatory texts expected
before the end of 2001.
(b) At the same time, a committee was set up in January, 1998 to define the conditions for
the financial reorganization of the regional bus transportation companies (SRTG). Its
deliberations and reports will lead to an action plan providing for the reorganization of these
enterprises in 1999.
(c) A cost-cutting policy will be actively implemented with about 800 employees of SRTG
and SNT expected to be laid off in the next three years. Technical assistance will be provided to
bus enterprises for improving management of their material, better programming of their services
and a better control over their financial situations. Surveys will be carried out to gain a better
appreciation of the characteristics of their markets and improve their line cost accounting
systems by line. These activities will be undertaken between 1999 and 2001.
(d) Studies will be launched in 2000 to update the transportation guidelines for the big
cities. These studies will deal with the technical aspects of transport coordination; infrastructure
development needs; population increase and transport constraints imposed by increasing
urbanization; economic policy measures which will affect influence the distribution demand
between various transportation systems, with a particular accent on streamlining parking in cities.
(e) Finally, the Government finally plans to develop private concessions and
subcontracting of bus services. The objective is for these services to reach at least 5 percent of
the public bus transport market before the end of the year 2005.
Intercity passengers transport by bus
Intercity passenger transport is dominated at present by individual transport and private
group transport using relatively small size vehicles, where services for hire play an increasing
role. Public transportation by bus is offered exclusively by SNTRI and the STRGs. Railway
transport is the monopoly of SNCFT. The combined share of the public carriers market only
represents 15 percent of the demand for intercity transport.
An increased role for public intercity transport is one of the Government's objectives for
two main reasons: offering road users cheaper services and reinforcing road security that has
been seriously jeopardized by the rapid development of collective taxi services. To complement
the actions which are anticipated to give new impetus to the railway system, the Government
intends to promote transportation by bus. The management rigidity that characterizes public
companies does not allow them to be market responsive, and leads to a budget deficit for
management and limit both their investment choices and their financial capacities.



Page 28
The Government therefore intends to commit itself towards liberalization and progressive
privatization of intercity transportation by bus. The main steps are as follows:
(a) SNTRI and its network will be restructured in order to serve a better client and make
profits. Among the measures envisaged are the salary cuts, debt reduction and final settlement of
problems arising from disputed property.
(b) The private sector will be admitted progressively into the intercity bus transportation
market.
(c) An organization will be set up before December 31, 2000 to manage the interurban
coach transportation market and line franchising.
(d) SNTRI will be restructured before December 31, 2001.
Air transport
This sector is undergoing significant changes internationally. The development strategy lies
upon:
(a) seeking strategic partners to help national operators to reinforce their competitive
capacities on the international market;
(b) adapting airport capacities to increase traffic as well as to improve services offered to
passengers and airlines;
(c) reinforcing freight services by increasing the storage capacity and simplifying customs
procedures;
(d) streamlining costs and transferring commercial businesses to the private sector,
adapting the regulatory framework and promulgating the Civil Aviation.
The Government is satisfied with the excellent cooperation between Tunisia and the World
Bank and acknowledges the significant contribution of your Institution to financing the different
sectors of the Tunisian economy. We are happy that the Bank is willing to participate in the
financing of the reform and investment program of the transports sector defined in this letter.
Sincerely,
The Minister of Transports
[Stamp and signature]
Hohssine CHOUCK



Page 29
Annex 2
Transport Sector Project
Detailed Project Description
PHASE I OF THE PROGRAM
Project Component 1: Port and Trade Facilitation - US$25.0million (total cost of component)
1.    This component is designed to foster physical and institutional conditions for efficient
port operations as part of a general strategy to promote international competitiveness of Tunisia.
The project will accordingly support implementation of the port investment program under the
Ninth Plan with a focus on essential rehabilitation and upgrading of port infrastructure to remove
potential bottlenecks to the anticipated traffic growth and, at the same time, facilitate
development of modern shipping and port technologies. On the institutional side, the project will
smooth out implementation of the new port laws and regulations. One important aspect is to help
the Office National des Ports Tunisiens (OPNT) strengthen its new "Landlord Port" functions,
attract private capital to finance new port terminals under build-operate-transfer (BOT) schemes
and to take over services previously handled by OPNT like towage. Following the decision to
open cargo handling in La Goulette and Rades to private competition, the project will also set up
a market organization conducive to higher port productivity through development of private firms
strong enough to invest in modem equipment. Finally, the project will address trade facilitation
needs in order to ensure that users will take full advantage of better ports by moving their goods
faster through customs. Action will be taken to modernize customs procedures as needed to
allow for definition and introduction of simplified clearance procedures that are in use at leading
ports of the world, to simplify trade documents along international standards, to develop modem
data exchange systems for faster transmission and processing of error free documents and to
disseminate modern trade logistics among the port and traders community.
2.     To achieve these goals, the Project Port and Trade Facilitation Component would
include:
A. Civil works:
(a)  Commercial Berths Rehabilitation in Bizerte: four of the five existing berths (400
meter long at -9m) are in precarious condition and need to be rebuilt at an
estimated cost of US$9.5 million (first-year investment)
(b)  Breakwater Extension in Gabes: the existing breakwater is not well designed and
the incoming swell can generate agitation in the port basin that hamper ship to
shore operations and may even cause damages to ships and structures; the
investment has been estimated at an approximated cost of US$4.8 million.
(c)  Oil Berth Rades: the existing capacity is insufficient to match future traffic needs
and construction of a new jetty will not only bring it to the needed level but also
allow larger tankers in the port which will reduce freight rates; the investment is
estimated at a cost of US$6.1 million.



Page 30
B. Technical Assistance and Training: Bank Financed
(a)    Feasibility studies ofport investments:
* Breakwater design in Gabes: model based studies will be developed to
identify the best technical options for the extension: US$490,000.
(b) Capacity building and technical assistance program:
 Development of the Rades Container Terminal under a BOT scheme including
preparation in stage one of engineering documents and in stage 2 of the bidding
documents for the concession: US$210,000.
* Assistance to restructuring and modernization of the OPNT tariff and to
definition of a price regulation structure covering all port services: US$160,000.
* Training to OPNT staff (human resource management and development of new
"landlord" port functions: US$110,000).
B. Technical Assistance and Training: Financed by Government
* Construction of the oil berth in Rades, including an environmental assessment:
US$1 10,000.
*  Identification of dumping sites for dredged materials: as ports are dredged every
four to seven years,  the accumulation of possibly contaminated dredging
materials is a growing concern for Tunisia which has to meet its obligations under
the international conventions it has signed: US$200,000.
* Expert services to modernize customs procedures: US$600,000.
*  Expert services to help the Ministry of Commerce develop a single trade
document ("Liasse Unique"), an electronic data interchange system including its
port application known as the SITAIP project ("Systeme Integre de Traitement
Automatise des Inforrnations Portuaires"): US$1,600,000.
*  Assistance in finalizing and implementing the detailed regulations derived from
the new port law: US$450,000.
*  Assistance to implementation of the new organization of port cargo handling,
including definition of equiment requirements and financing systems that should
be available to private firms: US$265,000.
*  Assistance to restructuring of port activities including divestiture by OPNT of
towage services, definition of a port concessions regime, drafting of standard
concessions contracts and of standard procurement guidelines and protocols;
legal advisory services for negotiations of port concession contracts:
US$265,000.
*  Improvement of port statistics: US$110,000.
*  Advisory services for dissemination of modern trade logistics within the port and
traders community, using professional organization (e.g. shippers'council) as
intermediaries to deliver information and training: US$ 110,000.



Page 31
Project Component 2 - Railways modernization and restructuring- US$ 47million (rounded)
3.     The project is to allow the railway company to become a fully-commercial enterprise,
competing efficiently with road transport while costing less to taxpayers. Capacity constraints
have developed over the years. The project will help government finance an investment package
designed to catch up with deferred modernization on the main corridor Tunis-Sousse-Sfax and
place SNCFT on a level playing field with its competitors. During the Eighth Plan, road transport
along the corridor was boosted by construction of the Tunis-Sousse motorway and rapid growth
of subsidized collective taxis (known as Louages), while railway competitive position declined
and service quality deteriorated. A study carried out as part of project preparation showed that
there was a real potential for railway passenger traffic growth in the Tunis-Sousse-Sfax corridor
which cannot materialize unless the railway capacity is upgraded. The commissioning to traffic in
early 1997 of a stretch of double track between Tunis and Sousse led to a surge in traffic
confirming the rail transport demand elasticity to service quality. In addition to track
modernization, the project will support institutional development essential to future sustainability
of the railways, namely: commercialization with a new organization along lines of business and
substitution of targeted compensations at a smaller scale for the current lump sum subsidies that
bear heavily on the government budget. In order to achieve the financial rehabilitation objective,
the project will help SNCFT finance severance of excess staff and close uneconomical passenger
services.
4.    Investments funded by the project are mainly comprised of:
(a) Rail infrastructure improvement (US$28 million)
*  modernization and capacity increase on 72 km of the Tunis-Sousse line;
*  track renewal between Tunis and Ghardimaou (Algerian border);
*  construction of road overpasses over the railway line in Tunis southern suburbs (in Hamman
Lif and Ezzahra);
*  improvement of the workshops to mitigate adverse environmental impacts.
The Bank will not finance the installation of rails on the Tunis-Sousse and Tunis-
Ghardimaou lines under Part BI and B2 of the project (related costs are estimated at
about to US$9 million). It is in the proven interest of SNCFT to authorize its subsidiary,
SOTRAFER, to bid for such works but the Bank procurement guidelines do not allow for
it.
(b) Severance payments (US$17 million)
*  Financing severance for about 1,500 staff during the 1998-2001 period.
(c) Consulting services and technical assistance (US$2 millions)
*  technical assistance and consulting services to modernize railway management, with special
reference to (i) implementation of a corporate organization along lines of business; (ii) traffic
management; and (iii) traffic costing.
*  training of railway staff at middle and upper management level.



Page 32
Project Component 3 Sector Management - US$8 million (rounded)
1.    Sector management must adapt to ongoing policy changes. Liberalization and
privatization will decentralize decision to many individual operators and the Ministry of
Transport will see its regulatory and market monitoring functions greatly enhanced whereas the
ones dealing with central planning and overseeing of public enterprises will be waning.
Decentralization of power to local Governments is another policy change that has implications on
the way the sector should be managed, particularly as regards urban transport which at present
suffers from diluted responsibilities and poor coordination detrimental to development of public
services with adverse effects on the environment. The project objective is to facilitate the
redistribution of functions within the various layers of Government, to build the needed capacity
wherever they are needed and to develop quality and timeliness of transport statistics to guide
sector policy makers and help identify market failures. Finally, better sector management calls
for better trained transport staff. Skills available in the public transport administration are not yet
fully tailored to responsibilities exerted. Few are those who have received specialized training on
matters they have to handle or acquired a professional experience in previous transport-related
employments outside the civil service. On the job training opportunities are scarce and often ill-
targeted. The wide array of tasks to perform by each individual is a further obstacle to deepening
of knowledges and acquisition of strong expertise in any particular field. The project will
therefore aim at strengthening human resource management in the public sector and develop
those skills needed for more effective handling of key responsibilities (operating computerized
information systems, transport economics and market mechanisms, regulations and legal aspects
of concessioning, financial management, awareness of new transport technologies, trade
logistics).
2.     Content of the Bank financed technical assistance program  (US$4.75 million)
(a)  Ad-hoc services for implementation of transport reforms: US$400,000.
(b)  Preparation of transport master plans for Tunis, Sfax and Sousse: US$1.5 million.
(c)  Technical assistance to development of a transport data base including provision of
needed equipment: US$500,000.
(d)  Preparation of a national transport plan: US$2 million.
(e)  Expert services for improvement of human resources management at the ministry of
transport and provision of training to its staff: US$350,000.
3.     Other actions to be financed by Government sources (US$3.6 million)
Another important objective of the project is to prevent growing air pollution by transport
in traffic congested cities. As part of project preparation, a PHRD financed study designed a core
network of 19 air quality monitoring stations covering six cities (Tunis, Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte,
Gabes and Kairouan). The total capital cost involved has been estimated by the consultant as
equivalent to US$3.6 million with the following breakdown:



Page 33
US dollar thousands
(a) 19 fixed monitoring stations:                2,000
(b) supporting equipment                          1,300
(c) zero span checking system                      175
gross sub-total      3,475
less:
existing equipment    550
net sub-total        2,925
(d) laboratories, data centers, vehicles                  430
(e) additional building at CITET                   200
(f) additional parking at CITET                            20
(g) buildings in Sfax and Sousse                           50
Total capital cost:    3,625
The recommendations of the PHRD financed study which also includes phasing out of
leaded gasoline consumption and the imposition of stricter anti-pollution norms for fuel and
vehicle imports will be reviewed by GoT as a first step toward policy definition.



Page 34
PHASE II OF THE PROGRAM
Urban transport- USS37million (tentative cost of Phase 2)
5.     Making better public transport available in major cities is the only way to contain the
surge of private vehicle uses in cities that the rapidly rising motorization is bound to produce.
Without good public transport, particularly for commuting between home and the work place,
preventing urban traffic congestion will imply spending much more massively on infrastructure
modernization and development. In addition, good and affordable public transport services is
essential for the urban poor as it enhances chances to find and keep a job. At present, public
transport is plagued by the underfunding of public service obligations: transport parastatals do
not generate enough revenue to expand their services at the appropriate pace. The few private
concessions of seat-only bus services that were authorized in Tunis operate at too small a scale to
have an impact on the unsatisfied demand. Another weakness is the lack of coordination between
transport modes operated by parastatals in Tunis. The light-rail system, the railways and the
public bus company could reach higher operational efficiency by better coordinating their
services. This latter issue is partly the result of an overly centralized system.
6.     The strategy to make public transport more efficient is four-pronged.
(a) A larger private sector participation in urban transport is desirable as a way to lift sector
performance in terms of cost effectiveness and service quality. It will be sought through
development of private concessions for seat-only bus services in major cities and contrating out
of part of their transport services by the public bus companies.
(b) Public enterprises will remain a major provider of mass transport services in a transition
period that can span up to ten years: it is therefore critical that they be freed of excess costs
related to maintenance deficiencies and a generally oversized labor force.
(c) To become financially sustainable, urban transport must be filly funded. The project will
help streamline the compensation systems and bring their level commensurate to costs incurred
by the transport companies which also implies tapping to the extent possible sources other than
the general government revenue.
(d) Management of urban transport must be decentralized at local government level with
participation by users and the community; at the same time, capacity building will have to
provided so that the needed expertise and management tools become available locally.
7.     Components currently envisaged for financing under the project are the following.
(a) Severance payments (US$ 17million)
About 1,100 staff would be declared redundant as part of a plan to improve productivity and
financial viability of the public bus operations. These redundancies would be distributed among
enterprises as follows:
SNT: about 370 employees (out of a total staff of 4,800)
SRTG:430 employees.
SNTRI: 300 employees



Page 35
(b) Construction of bus depots; construction and equipment of workshops (US$17 million).
The former investments are needed as the bus fleet has expanded in late years and will continue
growing as the Ninth Plan provides for substantial capacity investments designed to meet the
objective of at least maintaining the public transport share of total urban traffic; the latter to be
part of the bus depot complex will ensure a high availability rate of the bus fleet.
(c) Financial support to sector (US$3 million).
The assessment of technical assistance needs is still tentative. The project could finance the
following: (a) feasibility studies for development of the Tunis light-rail system; (b) traffic
surveys, development of preventive maintenance and training of the SNT staff. Technical
assistance will likely be needed to facilitate the effective decentralization of urban transport
management. Last, the technical assistance to sector management provided under phase 1 of the
APL may have to be extended in selected areas to its phase 2.
Proposed Milestones for triggering Phase Two of the APL
The consideration of the second phase loan would be contingent upon satisfactory
implementation of the agreed investment plan for transport over 1997-2001, and of the Program
and the Project, with at least 50% of each of the project loans already committed. Other
benchmarks are as follows:
(a) for the sector:
* transport investments as % of GDP: about 2.8%;
*  private sector share in sector investment: over 30%;
*  transport subsidies below 0.5% of GDP;
*  share of public sector in total transport service delivery in Tunis of about 55%;
(b) for the ports and railways:
*  new port and railways regulations and legislation in place;
* Restructuring of STAM and CTN completed;
* budget support to the SNCFT less than 60% of revenues;
(c) for urban transport:
*  financial restructuring of the public bus companies completed;
*  larger managerial autonomy granted to public bus companies, including the right to
contract out lines or services, and establishment of a local management institution;
*  implementation of a system ensuring full compensation of public service obligations
imposed by GoT on bus companies signed and establishment of new urban transport
financing mechanisms;
(d) for interurban transport:
* a privatization plan has been approved for SNTRI and bids have been invited from
private firms for concessioning of SNTRI lines representing no less than 50% of total
trafic revenue;
*  an organization has been set up to regulate and monitor private concessions.



Page 36
Annex 3
Transport Sector Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                                       Local           Foreign        Total
1- Bank Financed Components                              ---------------------US S million---------
A. Railway component
I. Infrastructure improvements
Ia) track doubling and modernization on the Tunis-Sousse line;                               7.61             7.61       15.22
I b) track renewal on the intemational line to Algeria: Tunis-Ghardimaou                      2.17            2.17        4.34
I c) upgrading of the workshops environment;                                                  0.39            0.40        0.79
Id) road overpasses at Hamman Lif                                                             2.03             2.03       4.06
2. Severance                                                                        15.79             0.00       15.79
3. Technical assistance and training
3a) MIS development along the new organization by line of business;                           0.15             0.60        0.75
3b) technical assistance;                                                                     0.10             0.40        0.50
3c) training and study trips.                                                                 0.10             0.40       0.50
sub-total railways         28.34            13.61       41.95
B. Port component and tradefacilitation component
1. Infrastructure improvements:
la) rehabilitation of commercial berths at Bizerte;                                           2.86             5.32       8.18
1 b) enhanced breakwater protection at Gabes;                                                 1.41             2.63       4.04
Id) contruction of an oil jetty at Rades;                                                     1.84            3.42        5.26
2. Technical assistance and studies:
2a) model-based study of breakwater works at Gabes;                                           0.09             0.36        0.45
2b) engineering study for the container terminal extension at Rades (BOT);                    0.04             0.16        0.20
2c) financial and tariff restructuring study;                                                 0.03             0.12        0.15
2d) training of OPNT staff;                                                                   0.02             0.08        0.10
sub-total port          6.29            12.09       18.38
C. Sector management component:
a) Transport master plans for major cities;                                                   0.27             1.12        1.39
b) Technical assistance to development of a transport data base;                              0.09             0.37        0.46
c) National transport plan study;                                                             0.35             1.49        1.84
d) Ad-hoc consulting services for implementation of reforms                                   0.11             0.26        0.37
e) T.A. to human resource management; training of the MT staff.;                              0.07             0.26        0.33
sub-total sector management          0.89             3.50        4.39
Total Bank financed baseline costs                                                 35.52            29.20            64.72
Physical contingencies                                                          1.51            2.02           3.53
Price contingencies                                                             2.37            2.21           4.58
Total Bank financed project costs                                                            39.40            33.43       72.83
11- Components financed by the Governent
A. Port studies                                                                              0.02             0.08        0.10
- feasibility studies ofthe oil jetty in Rades                                       0.04             0.15        0.19
- dumping sites for dredging materials
sub total port studies         0.06            0.23        0.29
B. Trade facilitation
- streamlining of customs procedures                                                 0.05             0.50        0.55
- development of trade and port electronic interchange                               0.30             1.20        1.50
- support to implementation of the new port legislation                              0.10             0.30        0.40
- assistance to reorganization of cargo handling                                     0.05             0.20        0.25
- assistance to restructuring of port activities                                     0.05             0.20        0.25
- improvement of port statistics                                                     0.01             0.09        0.10
-dissemination of modem trade logistics.                                             0.02             0.08        0.10
sub total trade facilitation       0.58             2.57        3.15
C. Development of pollution monitoring systems in major cities]                               0.70             2.70        3.40
Total non Bank financed baseline costs                                             134              5.50             6.84
contingencies2                                                                  0.09             0.39          0.48
Total non Bank financed costs                                                                 1.43             5.89        7.32
Total project cost     40.83           39.32          80.15
Note    Costs have been calculated using COSTAB except for non Bank financed components, the costs of which are still tentative. They include
physical contingencies of 10% on infrastructure works and have been updated to account for inflation at the following rates:
I) local: 3.8% in 1998 and 3.5% thereafter;
2) international: 1.9% from 1998 onward.
This cost corresponds to development of the minimum network needed to have an impact.
Financial contingencies only. They amount to 7% of baseline costs as for the Bank financed components.



Page 37
Annex 4
Transport Sector Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
1- Track improvement on the Tunis-Sousse line
(in million mid-1997 tunisian dinar)
Present Value of Flows                Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis         Analysis          Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits:
-savings on trend traffic  24.0                               8.5 on sales
-gains on diverted traffic  11.0                               9.8 on input
Costs:
construction and           24.9                               5.0               24.5
maintenance
Net Benefits:               10.1                             23.3               24.5
IRR:                      13.8%
Main Assumptions:
The marginal costs of railway services would fall 30 percent after completion of works.
Passenger traffic would increase by 25 percent and freight traffic by 17 percent after completion
of works.
Trend traffic for passengers would grow by 3.5 percent annually before-2001 and by 6 percent
thereafter. For freight, the trend traffic would grow by 4 percent annually.
Switching values of critical items:
Investments would have to be 40 percent more expensive for the ERR to fall to a marginally
acceptable 10 percent.
Rail cost differentials would have to be reduced by 47 percent to bring the ERR down to 10
percent.
Diverted freight and passenger traffic would have to be 15 percent of their best estimates to bring
the ERR down to 10 percent.
2- Berth reconstruction at Bizerte
(in million mid-1997 tunisian dinar)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis         Analysis         Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits:
-on recaptured traffic         7.8
-on avoided traffic diversion  3.7
-avoided repairs and clearing  0.5
Costs:
construction and maintenance   5.8                               1.5
Net Benefits:                  6.2                               1.5
IRR:                          19.8%
Main Assumptions:
The commercial quay is deteriorating fast and it is believed that it can collapse within 4 years.
One of the berth has already been closed to traffic. Should the quay collapse, only one berth
would be available in Bizerte; traffic to and from the Bizerte area (75% of total) would be
diverted through Rades-La Goulette and travel by road or rail.
The economic life of the rebuilt quays will be unaffected by construction of a new bridge.
The reconstructed quay will allow recouping the unitized cargo from and to the Bizerte area that
are currently routed through Tunis.



Page 38
Switching values of critical items:
Had the existing berth not collapsed before 2017, the ERR would still be equivalent to 13.5%.
Only when a combined bridge and outer port solution becomes operational by 2006 (then ending
the economic life of the rebuilt berth) is the ERR falling to 10%.
3- Railway staffseverance program
(in million mid-1997 tunisian dinar)
Present Value of Flows            Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial Analysis
Analysis                        Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:
-cost savings for the railways  35.8                                       35.8
-production of re-hired staff  7.5
Costs:
-payment of severance        13.8                            13.8
-dependency costs             0.5
-training costs               0.2          1                1             1          _
Net Benefits:                28.8                            13.8          35.80
IRR:                        139%*          I_I_I_                                       I
the modified rate of return assuming reinvestment of annual benefits at 12% is 22%
Main Assumptions:
1) A total of about 1,500 staff will be covered by the severance program of which 278 are
"casual" workers in fact employed on a continuous basis to carry out track works. Based on the
age group distribution of the SNCFT personnel and the experience of previous similar programs,
about three-fourth of redundancies would involve staff more than 45 year-old. Such assumption
implies that the program is largely about facilitating pre-retirement:
2) Younger workers affected who needs to be reemployed elsewhere to sustain themselves and
their family are only few. The labor market is increasingly tight for workers with experience and
the odds of their rehiring are rather good. The economic analysis assumes that less than 8% of
the redundant railway staff, most of whom in the "casual" worker category, will remain
unemployed.
3) The main economic benefits accrue to SNCFT. Cost savings will allow both to sustain
remaining employment, maintain or expand market the railways market share, and finance
needed investments to that effect. One could argue that the real beneficiary will in fact be the
Government since keeping current staffing unchanged would force it to subsidize SNCFT
indefinitely.
Switching values of critical items:
1) Since the program will be financed by the Government, the public funds needed to make
severance payments may be deemed to have a cost higher than their nominal value since their
raising through tax and other means limits private consumption and investments. To reduce the
modified ERR to 12%, the shadow cost of public funds (SCPF) would have to be increased by a
factor of 3.2 which is unlikely in Tunisia. However, taking the stance that the real beneficiary of
the program is the Government, the SCPF would then apply to cost savings also and, since they
largely outweigh the severance payments, one would infer that the higher the SCPF, the higher
the ERR).
2) The marginal output of rehired staff is of lesser importance in the result as many of the
redundant staff would just retire. Even if all those in need of a new job would remain
unemployed, the modified ERR would still be around 20%.
3) Should SNCFT be unable to sustain its operations despite cost savings generated by the
severance program and forced to close its business, the benefits of the program would be short-
lived. The modified ERR would be reduced to 12% if such closure would occur in 2008.



Page 39
Annex 5
Transport Sector Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement methods
1.    The proposed arrangements of procurement methods are presented in Table A. The procurement
of civil works and goods will be carried out in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines of
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997. Civil works under the port
component will all be procured under ICB. Civil works under the railway component corresponding to
construction of the two road overpasses in Hamman Lif will be procured under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) using the Bank's standard bidding documents. National competitive bidding procedures,
which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank, will apply to improvement of the workshop
environment and civil works for modernization of stations and construction of the track base between
Tunis and Sousse. Small works of less than US$50,000 per contract will be procured under national
shopping procedures up to a maximum amount of US$300,000. Procurement of goods such as the
ballast, turnouts, fasteners and other miscellaneous equipment for the Tunis-Sousse and Tunis-
Ghardimaou modernization program will be procured under ICB. However, some of the components
used to fasten rails, which are of semi-proprietary nature and can only be provided by a limited number of
suppliers, will be procured under Limited International Bidding (LIB) up to a cumulative amount not
exceeding US$2.5 million. International shopping procedures will apply to procurement of goodscosted
US$50,000 or less per contract up to a cumulative amount of US$200,000. National shopping procedures
will apply to procurement of goods costed US$10,000 or less per contract up to a cumulative amount of
US$100,000. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997. Consultant activities
relate to studies, short term expert advice and training. Only firms will beshortlisted. The selection will
usually be based on quality and cost. However, contracts for technical feasibility studies for the port and
the railway investments, which would cost US$100,000 per contract or less, will be awarded on a least-
cost basis. Furthermore, the shortlist may be limited to local consultants for studies (a) on development
of a transport database and on human resource management and training at the MT, costed at
US$200,000 per contract, and (b) on environmental, technical and economic aspects of the railway
investments, and on accounting and training development at SNCFT, costed at US$100,000 or less.
Prior Review Threshold
2.    All contracts for works exceeding US$500,000 and contracts for goods and equipment exceeding
US$350,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For consultant services, all contracts valued
at US$100,000 and above, together with the terms of reference and the shortlist would also be subject to
prior review. This provision would also apply to port feasibility studies, not financed by the Bank but
which relate to investments that the Bank would finance. The expected number of contracts is relatively
limited and the prior review of contracts for works, goods and consultant services would apply to at least
80 percent of the value of Bank financed procurement. The Bank's review process is presented in Table
B.
Disbursement
3.    Loan proceeds will be disbursed against:
(a)  60 percent of the cost of civil works;
(b)  for goods, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures, ex-
factory cost, and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally.



Page 40
(c)   100 percent for consultants services and training.
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds between categories is presented in Table C.
4.     Disbursement will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for civil works
under contracts not exceeding US$500,000, goods under contracts not exceeding US$350,000, consulting
services under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 and for training contracts not exceeding US$50,000.
Severance payments will all be disbursed on the basis of SOEs. Supporting documents for SOEs will not
be submitted to the Bank but will be retained by SNCFT and made available for review by Bank staff
during supervision. The SOEs will be audited annually.
Special account
5.     To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established at the Central Bank to
facilitate disbursements of the loan to the Republic of Tunisia. The maximum authorized allocations will
be equal to FRF12,000,000. This maximum amount will be reached when the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the loan account plus the total of outstanding special commitments are equal to
FRF30,000,000.
Retroactive financing
6.     Eligible severance payments under the railway component could be financed by retroactive
financing. Some 620 staff will be laid off by end of June 1998 and they are entitled to receive severance
payments at the time they leave. Any delay would jeopardize the success of the overall severance
program. The loan to the Republic of Tunisia may not be signed before the end of June, and the GoT
cannot substitute its own resources for the Bank loan proceeds. Retroactive financing covers that risk. It
was agreed during negotiations that the total amount of retroactive financing will not exceed 15 percent
of the loan to the Republic of Tunisia, or FRF33,375,000 (US$5.5 million equivalent).
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                Procurement Method                  Total Cost
ICB           NCB         Other       N.B.F       (incl. cont)
1. Works
(a) port rehabilitation & upgrading works  20.2 (12.1)                                   20.2 (12.1)
(b) railway tracks & workshops          4.1 (2.4)     6.2 (3.7)    0.3 (0.2)     10.6   21.2 (6.3)
2. Goods
(a) materials & equipment for the railways  3.3 (3.3)  1.0 (1.0)    2.8 (2.8)*           7.1 (7.1)
3. IBRD-fmanced technical assistance and
training
(a) port studies and training                                     0.9 (0.9)               0.9 (0.9)
(b) SNCFT studies and training                                    1.9 (1.9)                1.9 (1.9)
(c) sector management studies & training                          4.9 (4.9)               4.9 (4.9)
4. Miscellaneous
(a) severance for SNCFT                                         16.8 (16.8)              16.8 (16.8)
5. Non IBRD-financed components                                       0.3        6.9           7.2
Total                                27.6 (17.8)   7.2 (4.7)   27.9 (27.5)    17.5    80.2 (50.0)
Note:
* LIB (Limited International Bidding): US$2.5 million maximum; international and national shopping: maximum US$300,000.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.



Page 41
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value           Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category                (Threshold)               Method                  Prior Review
1. Works
Port rehabilitation, track  above US$ 3.0 m         ICB                   above US$0.5 million
works, facilities for land
transport
up to US$ 3.Om          NCB                    above US$0.5 million
up to US$50,000         National shopping      none
2. Goods
above US$350,000        ICB and LIB            US$0.35million and above
below US$350,000        NCB                    none
below US$50,000         International shopping    none
below US$10,000         National shopping      none
3. Services
Consulting services, training   US$100,000 and above  Shortlisting (national and  US$100,000 and above:Terms of
international)        reference, shortlist, letter of
invitation, contracts
below US$100,000        Shortlisting (national and  none
international)



Page 42
Annex 5 (continued)
Transport Sector Project
Table Cl: Allocation of Loan Proceeds: OPNT
Expenditure Category                                      Amount in        Financing Percentage
US$million
1) Civil works                                                                     60%
la- port rehabilitation and improvement       12.1
2) Technical assistance and training                                              100%
2a- financial and institutional studies      0.2
2b- port investrnent feasibility studies     0.6
2c- port training          0.1
Total                                                                13.0
Table C2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds: Republic of Tunisia
Expenditure Category                                      Amount in        Financing Percentage
US$million
A. Railway component
1) Civil works                                                        6.4  60%
2) Goods                                                              7.0  100% of foreign
expenses;
100% of local
expenses (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local
expenses for other
items procured locally
3) Technical assistance and training
3a- MIS development;             0.8  100%
3b- Training and study trips         1.1  100%
4) Severance payments                                                16.8
subtotal railways          32.1
B. Sector management component
1) Studies and expert services                                        4.8  100%
3) training                                                           0.1  100%
sub-total sector management           4.9
Grand total            37.0



Page 43
Annex 6
Transport Sector Project
Documents in the Project File
Transport strategy
The Bank transport strategy for the Ninth Plan is spelled out in two reports:
* Transport Strategy Study. Summary Grey Cover report Mr. 14846-TUN
* Tunisie: "Etude sur la Strategie des Transports". 1997. Full report in French published in the
MENA series.
Sector issues and project rationale
1.    Urban transport: note prepared by Claude Archambault
Project costs
Project costs have been calculated using the Bank Costab model.
Economic analysis
* Track doubling on the Tunis-Sousse line.
* Reconstruction of the commercial quay at the port of Bizerte.
* The staff severance program at SNCFT.
Financial analysis
* Financial evaluation of OPNT, the national port authority in Tunisia.
* Financial evaluation of the railway company, SNCFT.
* The macrofinancial picture: the transport sector net intake of budget funds.
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
A draft has been submitted in January 1998. Comments were made during the January-February 1998
mission. The PIP will be finalized at the time of negotiations.
Preparation studies
2.    A PHRD grant (US$870,000) was used to finance 8 preparation studies. These studies to
eventually be part of the project file (the diagnosis report is already available only for the first two studies
listed hereafter) are referenced as:
(a)    BCEOM. Study of sector's training needs
(b)   ICEA-Comete. Study of the transport concession frameworks
(c)    Systra. Study on the organization and coordination of urban transport.
(d)    GEM. Study on how to promote multimodal transport.



Page 44
(e)    GOPA: Study on transport user charges
(f)    CANAC. Study on the reorganization of phosphate rail traffic.
(g)    Systra. Study of little used passenger railway services
3.     The French trust fund financed a study on the parking policy in Tunis. The report is already in the
project file under the following reference:
Patrick Carles: "Le stationnement a Tunis" - Rapport et annexe- SARECO - June 1997.
4.     The French trust fund financed a study on the economic feasibility of railway passenger traffic on
the Tunis-Gabes corridor:
Systra: "Etude de la competitivite du transport ferroviaire voyageurs intervilles sur l'axe Tunis-
Sousse-Gabes". Final report dated June 1996.
5.     The French trust fund financed expert services to review the implications of the free-trade
agreement between the European Union and Tunisia. The related report is referenced as follows:
Ovadia Salama: "Note sur la comp6titivite des transporteurs tunisiens face aux mutations en
cours du march6 international et, plus particulierement, du grand marche europeen" April 1995 -
Organization and Development Associates.
6.     The Dutch trust fund financed expert services to analyze the impacts of the growing motorization
on the urban environment and proposed policy actions to achieve the objective of cleaner transport.
Three reports have been submitted:
MVA Consultants: Tunisia Transport Sector Investment Project. Diesel Related Particulate
Pollution. November 1997.
CHEM Systems. Pre-Feasibility Study Into Lead Phase Down in Tunisian Gasoline. November
1997.
ERM Netherlands B.V.. Development of The Air Quality Monitoring Network in Tunisia.
November 1997.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Tunisia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 165
Active Loans
TN-PE-5680    IBRD3782A              GOVERNMENT/SONEDE                 WATER SUPPLY AND SEW              16.26        0.00            0.00          15,05        16,49       0.00
TN-PE-5680    IBRD37830              GOVERNMENT/SONEDE                 WATER SUPPLY AND SEW              29.00        0.00            0.00          21.56       16.49        0.00
TN-PE-5721    IBRD3661A              GOVERNMENT                        AGRICULTURAL SEC INV              33.64        0.00            0.00          29.65       30.46         .60
TN-PE-5725    IBRD3601A              GOVERNMENT                        SECOND FORESTRY                   54.61        0.00            0.00          52.41       17.26        1.51
DEVELOPMENT
TN-PE-5726    IBRD3456A              GOVT. OF TUNISIA                  HIGHER EDUCATION                  43.36        0.00            0.00          40.62       40.90         .30
TN-PE-5733    IBRD3691A              GOVT.                             DEV.OF MTS NW REGION              13.90        0.00            1.50          12.13         3.16       0.00
TN-PE-5738    IBRD3308A              GOV. OF TUNISIA                   HOSPITAL MGT. & FIN.               9.89        0.00            0.00           8.76         8.98       4.14
TN-PE-5743    IBRD3786A              GOV. OF TUNISIA                   SECONDARY EDUCATION               56.98        0.00            0.00          54.19       30.28        0.00
TN-PE-5745    IBRD4036A              GOVT. OF TUNISIA                  2ND EMPL. & TRG.                  57.66        0.00            0.00          56.41         8.66       0.00
TN-PE-5748    IBRD3671A              RANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT                10.36        0.00            0.00           9.73         1.00       0.00
TN-PE-5748    IBRD3673A              BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT                 9.35        0.00            0.00           4.01         1.00       0.00
TN-PE-5748    IBRD3674A              BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT                 2.28        0.00             0.00          1.80         1.00       0.00
TN-PE-5748    IBRD36770              BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT                10.00        0.00            0.00            .04         1.00       0.00
TN-PE-5748    IBRD36780              BANKS OF TUNISIA                  PRIVATE INVESTMENT                 6.00        0.00            0.00            .19         1.00      0o00    r
TN-PE-5749    IBRD3840A              GOV'T OF TUNISIA                  RURAL ROADS                       28.24        0.00            0.00          27.63          .29       0.00   
go
TN-PE-43700   IBRD43510    1998   GOVT OF TUNISIA                      TRANSPORT SECTOR INV              13.00        0.00            0.00          12.90       15.84        0.00    
TN-PE-43700   IBRD43580    1996   GOVT OF TUNISIA                      TRANSPORT SECTOR INV              37.00        0.00            0.00          36.69       15.84        0.00 
TN-PE-50418   IBRD42780    1998                                        ASIL 2                            42.00        0.00            0.00          40.67         6.00       0.00
TN-PE-5741    IBRD42970    1998   GOV. OF TUNISIA                      HIGHER EDUC. II                   80.00        0.00            0.00          78.52         0.00       0.00
TN-PE-5746    IBRD42940    1998   GOVT. OF TUNISIA                     HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                50.00        0.00            0.00          49.08         0.00       0.00
TN-PE-46832   IBRD42020    1997   CPSCL                                MUNICIPAL DEV. II                 80.00        0.00             0.00         68.46        16.50       0.00
TN-PE-5731    IBRD41740    1997   GOV. OF TUNISIA                      GREATER TUNIS SEWER               10.00        0.00            0.00           9.40         0.00       0.00
TN-PE-5731    IBRD41750    1997   GOV. OF TUNISIA                      GREATER TUNIS SEWER               50.00        0.00             0.00         46.67         0.00       0.00
TN-PE-5736    IBRD41620    1997   GOV. OF TUNISIA                      NATURAL RESOURCE MGM              26.50        0.00             0.00         23.91         -.04       0.00
TN-PE-40208   IBRD40370    1996   GOT                                  IND. SUPPORT INSTITU              38.70        0.00            0.00          31.91         6.03       0.00
TN-PE-5720    IBRD3892A    1995   BNA                                  RURAL FINANCE                     43.49        0.00            0.00          40.33       28.02        0,00
Total                                                                                                   852.22        0.00             1.50        772.72      266.16        6.55
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   50.05            3,192.04            3,242.09
of which has been repaid:                     .14           1,703.67             1,703.81
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  850.59            1,493.50            2,344.09
Amount sold                                        0.00               39.56                39.56
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               39.56               39.56
Total Undisbursed                                772.72                0.00              772.72
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 46
Annex 7
Tunisia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Aug-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973/75               Sousse-Nord              0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00      .63    0.00    0.00
1986/92198            SITEX                    1.25    2.92    0.00    0.00    1.25    2.92    0.00    0.00
1991                  SOMOTEX                  2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Ideal Sanitaire          0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00
1995                  Maghreb IM Bank          0.00     .33    0.00    0.00    0.00      .33    0.00    0.00
1997                  Aminex TUN               0.00     .61    0.00    0.00    0.00      .61    0.00    0.00
1998                  BIAT                     0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00
1998                  Tuninvest                0.00    4.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.18    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    4.06   12.48    0.00    0.00    4.06    8.94    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                  BIAT                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00



Page 47
Annex 8
Tunisia at a glance                                                               10/1/98
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Tunisia    Africa   income      Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        9.3       283     2,285   I              Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   2,090      2,060     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      19.4       583      2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (Y%)                                        1.8        2.3       1.2     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%l)                                       3.0        3.2       1.3     per                             prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                63        57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        67        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                29        48        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               9          .        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  99        71        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    33        39        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  116        97         1               Tunisia
Male                                                 119       102       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               112        91       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                            4.5      9.0       19.5      19.0
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                30.7     26.6       24.1      24.6                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            29.1     30.2       42.3      42.3
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                    25.7      19.5      22.6      23.7                       T
Gross national savings/GDP                   25.0      16.8      21.2      23.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -6.2     -7.8       -3.3      -4.0     Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         0.8      3.4        2.6       2.7     Savings
Total debt/GDP                               28.4     65.9       50.3      53.5
Total debt servicelexports                    6.8     28.0       16.4      12.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..      ..       46.0
Present value of debtexports                   ..       ..    100.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  4.6      4.3      7.0        5.4       5.1            Tunia
GNP per capita                       1.9      2.1     -0.5        9.7       3.4               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        3.5      5.3     -1.3       10.3       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (
(% of GOP)                                                                          3
Agriculture                                  17.8      13.0      13.7      13.3    30
Industry                                     25.2     30.5       28.5      27.4     20
Manufacturing                              10.5      15.8      18.2      17.7    10-
Services                                     57.1     56.5       57.8      59.4 -
-10    92    0                      9
Private consumption                          59.1     62.7       61.1      60.5    -20
General govemment consumption                15.2     17.8       16.3      15.8                 -GDI        OGDP
Imports of goods and services                34.0     37.3       43.8      43.2
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual grow/h)
Agriculture                                   2.4       3.9      29.5       3.0      s T
Industry                                      5.7      4.8        3.5       6.2     a +A
Manufacturing                                8.3      6.7       3.4       7.1 s
Services                                      4.7      4.3        5.9       3.9 
Private consumption                           5.9      3.7        4.3       4.9      .     92   93   94   95           97
General govemment consumption                 6.0      3.8        3.3       4.3
Gross domestic investment                     2.1      6.4        9.8      10.4    10
Imports of goods and services,                4.4      5.0       -3.5       8.7             -     Exports    Olmports
Gross national product                        4.6      4.1        1.1      11.5   I
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 48
Annex 8
Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
o1976    1986      1996     1997      Infation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        101
Consumer prices                               5.4      6.2       3.8       3.7
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.9      3.5       4.3       4.7
Government finance                                                                 2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              |
Current revenue                                ..    30.6       25.2      26.2            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                 5.8       4.1       3.5               -GOP deflator    *  CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                        ..    -5.4       -4.3      -3.8   j
TRADE                                                                                                                  --
m1976    1986      1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          789    1,768      5,519    6,087    10,000
Fuel                                        334      428       578       700
Cotton                                       35      132       183       331     7.500
Manufactures                                359    1,175      4,695    4,460                                      *
Total imports (cif)                         1,531    2,901     7,749    8,423      s o 0
Food                                        189      361       628       722      2,5D0
Fuel and energy                             170      252       647       581
Capital goods                               489      636      1,562    1,645        0
91  92  93  94  Qs95         97
Exportprice index (1995= 100)                  ..      62        115      108
Importprice index (1995=100)                   ..      63        113      107                  mExports     !Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..      97        101      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS 
(US$ mnillions)                             1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,311    2,722     7,969    9,101       0
Imports of goods and services               1,533    3,364     8,297    9,642
Resource balance                             -222     -642      -328      -541     -2
Net income                                   -192     -422    -1,134   -1,049      -4
Net current transfers                        133      359        820      841
Current account balance                      -281     -705      -642      -749
Financing items (net)                        262      513        951     1,040
Changes in net reserves                        19      192      -309      -290    -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    378       1,970    2,716
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              0.4      0.8       1.0       1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996     1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,279    5,943     9,821    10,151
IBRD                                       128      789      1,610     1,434              G:1,165       A:14A34
IDA                                         64       64        47        45
Total debt service                            100     876      1,466    1,277      Co positic on-                  45  n
IBRD                                        18      137       303       275
IDA                                          1        1          2        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                   F: 2,537
Official grants                             44       69        140       65                                     D:1,920
Official creditors                         131      180        104      151
Private creditors                           49      117        377      294
Foreign direct investment                  110       63        238      306
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        0                       E: 2,877
World Bank program
Commitments                                 65      184        174      167     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               34      171        202      127     a - IDA    D- Other mutUlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         9       78        190      175     C-IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                   25       93         12      -48                                      ------
Interest payments                           10       61        116      103
Net transfers                               16       33       -103     -151
Development Economics                                                                                                10t1198



IBRD 2961t0
-                    -       -:    ~ ~ ~                 ~          ~ ~ ~~~ ~                ~          ~~~-  ,   : -,  I--   _---  . 
M  e ; i i  e r . a n e a n
h  o.em a i n   /fo  IlA~  TUNIS D i            fiR~E H-ria.                    37-
wr-3<~~~~~~ t                              ToboK                                                                    , - -
{ s  K 4' R I N  E  2              "                H/      ( .          '      6nz ':  A     M.RR TBRC,,p.             --
)  6  EL                                                              -~  jGWo
;                ~~~.'. /SIDI B;UZID \t {'                             S F 3 A.   -\                             X   -- 
., X G AX S/A_                                                              GARE
Tdi-
0%                  -¼S            (-Z                          t1>            *,,                          E     E    INt          -
Fe%ooR.i                                               MEDENINE~~~- -p d 
\ s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   -KhAOd& hoEJt*
/ ts'~~~~K           Ghoumn.oson\/   1 
33>  TUNISIA                                           t                      TATAG AN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT                                                                     r                                            ,i 
___PROJECT ROADS (UPGRADERG                                                  )1}                           j      ~ 
TA.NROADS                                                               TATAOUINE                     ' .' OUS
SECONDARY ROADS                                                      /% * MONST
s  Se   STANDARD GAUCE RAIOADS                                               | 
.r ..o NARROW GAUCjERAIUIBOADS                                                                             I p
INTERNATONAIRPORTS  
0 O ARS C ANDTOWUNS                                                      ,                                MI  S      I
AED,.F-/  GOVERNORATE CAPITALS   MG;TU41_
VP./10s NA.ANA,                           S    NATRSNAL CAPITALS                                                   f                                                       SPIT >
.A.,,Aou,AA, A.r                               GOERNORAJE30UNDAT   i                                                <>M                      ALGERIA\
Aol Rv A.WF pO              *            . -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARilES i
vEan9asls  T  9-                75°  MAY 199.



