Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4357-TUN
Guarantee Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 29, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4357-TUN
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Guarantor) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Office des Ports Nationaux de Tunisie (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in an amount equal to 
seventy-eight million two hundred thousand French Francs (FRF78,200,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan 
as provided in this Agreement and to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modification set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01.  The Guarantor shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1999, conclude 
and execute with the Borrower an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, designed to 
settle the outstanding financial liability issues arising out of the repayment by the 
Borrower of the arrears on local loans contracted by it under the Third Port Project 
(Loan No.1797-TUN); and (ii) not later than December 31, 1999, define with the 
Borrower the appropriate financial and management framework for the port of Gabès.
Section 3.02.  The Guarantor agrees, as long as it exercises control over the 
setting of tariffs charged by the Borrower, to revise and on that basis to 
restructure, not later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower’s present tariff system so 
as to: (i) ensure the full coverage of the Borrower’s operating costs resulting from 
its newly-defined functions established under Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project; (ii) 
enhance the Borrower’s capacity to repay the debt owed by it to the Guarantor along 
terms specified in a restructuring agreement satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) allow 
the Borrower: (A) to increase its tariffs by nine point three percent (9.3%) for its 
Fiscal Year 1999 and further increase them by nine point three percent (9.3%) for its 
Fiscal Year 2001, and (B) to meet, under conditions of efficient operation, its 
financial obligations and covenants under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of International Cooperation
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Telex:
     MCIIE
18060
For the Bank:
Page  3
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
