                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 34746

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (SCL-43570 SCL-43580 TF-29649)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF OF 45.8 MILLION EURO

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                            FOR A

                         TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT

                          IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

                     TRANSPORT REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM

                                (ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN)




                                          Juin 26, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middile East and North Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2006)

                               Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                                       TD 1 = US$ 0.75
                                       US$ 1 = 1.34 TD

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL     Adaptable Program Loan
BAD     Banque Africaine de Développement
BIRD    Banque Internationale pour la Reconstruction et le Développement
BOT     Build-Operate-Transfer
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CTN     Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation
DT      Dinar Tunisien
EA      Environmental Assessment
ECAL    Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
EU      European Union
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOT     Government of Tunisia
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
OMMP    Office de la Marine Marchande et des Ports
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development
PSO     Public Service Obligations
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
PST     Projet Sectoriel des Transports
SNCFT   Société Nationale du Chemin de Fer Tunisien
STAM    Société Tunisienne d'Acconnage et de Manutention
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
TA      Technical Assistance
TN      Tunisie
TTN     Tunisie Tradenet
US$     US Dollar

                             Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                           Country Director     Theodore O. Alhers
            Sector Director/Sector Manager      Hossein Razavi/Hedi Larbi
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Michel Bellier

                                           TUNISIA
                    TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Partner Contribution to ICR                                             30

Project ID: P043700                                                  Project Name: TN-TRANSPORT SECTOR
                                                                     INVESTMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Michel Bellier                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 26, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN-TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-43570; SCL-43580;
                            PROJECT                                                                  TF-29649
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Railways (64%); Ports, waterways and shipping (28%); Central government administration
                            (8%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (S); Regional integration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/09/1996                                     Effective:                           12/22/1998
     Appraisal: 04/30/1998                                         MTR: 10/31/2000                  07/10/2001
      Approval: 06/23/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA/MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Hedi Larbi                                     George Tharakan
Team Leader at ICR:             Michel Bellier                                 Michel Loir
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques Yenny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project is the first phase of a broader Transport Reform and Investment Program financed by an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The second phase of the APL was approved in April 2001 and the project
is still ongoing. The broad objectives of the Program were those of the Government of Tunisia (GOT),
which sought to:

l increase the efficiency and quality of transport services by expanding and modernizing transport
     equipment, introducing a market framework conducive to competitive delivery, and ensuring reduction
     of transport-induced environmental impact; and
l reduce the financial burden of the transport sector on the Government's budget by increasing the
     participation of the private sector in transport investment and service delivery, and by improving the
     performance of public transport enterprises.

The first phase project objectives were to promote better, cheaper and less polluting transport services, with
a special focus on the port and railway subsectors and the strengthening of the overall transport sector
management, to permit faster growth and enhanced international competitiveness of the Tunisian economy.
Accordingly the project focused on:


l restructuring port services provided by the Port Authority, Office de la Marine Marchande et des Ports
     (OMMP), and promoting private investments;
l setting     up a new cargo handling organization and supporting new port facilities under
     Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) schemes;
l facilitating access of foreign investors to trade-related transport activities as a way to foster
     technological transfer and bring in capital;
l commercializing the railway parastatal (Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer de Tunisie, SNCFT)
     and giving it financial autonomy through a combination of increased operational efficiency, tariff
     adjustments and full transparent compensation for public service obligations (PSO) imposed by the
     Government; and
l reducing transport-induced pollution by promoting the use of less polluting fuels (lead-free gasoline and
     cleaner diesel).

The program and project objectives reflected the goals of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
was presented to the Board on June 25, 1996, as well as the strategy of GOT for the transport sector. The
CAS focused on deepening reforms, redefining the role of Government in the economy, and modernizing
services by further opening transport to the private sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives as mentioned above were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three main components described as follows:

A.       Port and Trade Facilitation US$21 million

This component includes the following Bank financed activities: rehabilitation and construction of port
facilities (US$20.1 million), including commercial berths in Bizerte, extension of breakwater in Gabès and,
initially, construction of an oil berth in Radès; and technical assistance and studies (US$0.9 million),
including design studies of the breakwater in Gabès, preparation of engineering documents for the BOT of



                                                      - 2 -

the Radès Container Terminal, assistance in restructuring and modernizing port tariffs, and training of
OMMP staff.

In addition, the GOT was to have financed additional technical assistance and training for the proposed
investments, trade facilitation initiatives, and restructuring of OMMP operations as follows:

l environmental assessment for the oil berth in Radès, and identification of dumping sites for dredged
    material;
l modernization of custom procedures, development of a single trade document, dissemination of modern
    trade logistics practices; and
l finalization of the detailed regulations derived from the new port law, implementation of the new
    organization of cargo handling, restructuring of port activities such as towing, concession regime,
    contracts and procurement guidelines, and improvement of port statistics.

B.       Railways US$47.0 million

This component consisted of capacity investments and initiatives to improve the SNCFT performance, as
follows:

l Rail infrastructure improvements (US$28.3million), including: modernization works and capacity
    increase on the Tunis-Sousse line, construction of overpass in Tunis southern suburbs, track renewal
    between Tunis and Ghardimaou (Algerian border), and modernization of workshops;
l Severance payments for about 1,500 staff (US$16.8 million); and
l Consulting services and technical assistance (US$1.9 million), for: modernizing management and
    implementing line of business organization, developing traffic management and costing methods, and
    staff training.

C.       Sector Management US$4.9 million

This component included activities financed by both the Bank and the Ministry of Transport. The Bank
supported the following initiatives, totaling US$4.9 million:

l Services to implement transport sector reforms;
l Updating of urban transport master plans for the three main cities of the country - Tunis, Sfax and
    Sousse;
l Technical Assistance to develop a comprehensive transport data base to facilitate monitoring of the
    sector performance, including equipment;
l Preparation of a national transport plan; and
l Advisory services for improving human resource management at the Ministry of Transport and
    provision of training to its staff.

With respect to the project objective of mitigating transport-induced air pollution in the main cities, the
Government was to have financed the construction and equipping of 19 fixed air quality monitoring stations
in six cities (Tunis, Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte, Gabès and Kairouan).

All activities financed by the Government under the port and trade component and the sector management
component were estimated at US$7.3 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
The only revisions were the: (i) construction of a bulk berth instead of an oil berth in the port of Radès,
after OMMP decided to regroup oil berths in one location and to increase general cargo capacity, and the



                                                       - 3 -

deferment of the study on port tariffs at the initiative of the OMMP under the port and trade facilitation
component; and (ii) replacement of master plans in regional cities by a single study focusing on the design
of the Greater Tunis mass transit system, and developing a long term Public Urban Transport plan for the
Greater Tunis Metropolitan Area under the sector management component.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no Assessment of Quality at Entry. However, quality at entry is rated as satisfactory for the
following reasons:

        Consistency with CAS/Government Strategy. The design of the program and the project were
        consistent with GOT's priorities in the transport sector and the Bank's country strategy in Tunisia
        to reduce the role of Government in the sector. The project made use of the transport strategy
        developed by the GOT with Bank assistance for the preparation of the Ninth Plan (1997-2001).

        Government Commitment, Ownership and Participation in Preparation. The GOT sought the Bank
        support in defining the strategy for the Ninth Plan (1997-2001). The main recommendations were
        endorsed by GOT in 1996 and their implementation started under the Economic Competitiveness
        Adjustment Loan (ECAL) and a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant. In
        particular, key reforms for the railways and the port and maritime sectors had progressed with the
        drafting of new laws which were sent to Parliament in 1999.

        Readiness for Implementation. Before presenting the project to the Board, the Government
        submitted a policy letter confirming its intentions to proceed with the restructuring of the railways
        and the ports along the lines of the drafted legislation. Only the feasibility studies and designs for
        investments in the first-year, relevant to the first phase of an adaptable program loan, were ready
        prior to the Board decision. The OMMP and SNCFT had prior experience with Bank procedures
        through previous port projects.      Both agencies had in-house engineering, procurement and
        management skills. However, preparation and procurement of proposed investments, particularly in
        ports, took a long time and the project was extended twice for a total of three years with a view to
        completing investments before the closing date. Although the oil berth at Radès was replaced by a
        multipurpose terminal, the latter could not be completed by the time the loan closed.

        Project Design. The project was designed in accordance with sector level objectives, and
        consequently included a large number of investments and technical assistance. Port capacity
        investments were selected to accommodate growing traffic and increase the efficiency of
        operations, while rail investments and the social plan were meant to improve both the performance
        of the railway company and the quality of rail services to customers. The technical assistance and
        studies were designed to assist with the restructuring programs of ports and SNCFT and
        strengthening of the overall transport sector management, and to prepare the ground for Phase 2 of
        the Program. Project components were, therefore, adequately designed to achieve the project
        objectives of: a) restructuring port services and promoting private investments; (b)
        commercializing SNCFT; and (c) strengthening sector management. With hindsight, the four year
        implementation period was too short, given the magnitude of reforms prescribed under the project.
        However, at the time, the concept of an APL was rather new and it appeared logical to close the
        first phase at the time the second phase was expected to start.

        Risk Management. Critical project risks were correctly identified, especially the Government's
        commitment to proposed reforms. The main shortcomings were over optimism regarding the speed
        at which reforms entailed by the new ports and railways laws could be implemented, and the



                                                     - 4 -

         underestimation of procurement delays resulting from cumbersome country procedures. Thus the
         large number of dated covenants reflecting reform milestones had to be repeatedly amended and
         postponed.

         Safeguard Policies. The fully appraised investments for early implementation dealt with
         rehabilitation and modernization works of existing facilities. They required no new construction
         and had no adverse impact on the environment. It was agreed that the oil berth would be subject to
         an Environmental Assessment (EA). Once that component was changed to a multipurpose terminal,
         an EA based on domestic environment procedures acceptable to the Bank, was satisfactorily
         completed. The project also included components to improve the environment by reducing air
         pollution. The social impact of the project resulted in the railway severance program, which
         covered about 1500 staff (close to 20% of the total work force). Extensive consultation with the
         unions took place before the appraisal. Social costs were minimized since the majority of the staff
         to be made redundant was less than ten years away from normal retirement and entitled to pension
         benefits. All of the approximately 620 staff to leave in 1998 had volunteered to do so.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project achievements are rated as satisfactory, since most of the project's specific objectives
were attained. In the port sector, cargo operations have been successfully restructured, the landlord model
effectively implemented, private sector involvement in port operations elevated further to the issuance of
bids for the BOT of a new container berth and a passenger terminal. In the railways sector, the new
legislation has been enacted, and the severance program fully completed. Finally, transport pollution has
been reduced. Despite these achievements, the financial situation of SNCFT remains difficult even with
improved operational efficiency and effective compensation of public service obligations obtained under the
project, given the aggressive competition of the liberalized trucking industries and the small size of the long
distance cargo market in Tunisia. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) illustrating the above are presented in
Table 1.

Table 1: Progress on Key Performance Indicators

            Key Program Indicators                        1997         2005 Target         2005 Actual
          Private sector share of                         25%              >50%                   55%
          transport investments
          Transport Subsidies as % of Gross              0.8%             0.2%                    1.1%
          Domestic Product (GDP)
          Rail: subsidies in % of operational revenue     n/a             <40%                    49%
          Rail traffic unit per staff                     n/a               600                   624
          Private share of general cargo handling         n/a             100%                    67%
          near 100% in 2002
          Share of unleaded gas in total gas              4%               33%                    71%
          consumption
          Sulphur content of diesel                      0.4%            <0.05%                 0.035%

Objective 1: Restructuring port services and promoting private investments in ports

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) indicates that achieving this objective requires:




                                                     - 5 -

l undertaking sector and regulatory reforms;
l implementing trade facilitation measures and modernization of custom procedures;
l modifying port tariffs and price regulation for port services;
l restructuring the public cargo handling company Société Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention
    (STAM);
l restructuring the public shipping company Compagnie Tunisienne de navigation (CTN); and
l establishing a port concession framework for cargo handling and new facilities and inviting bids for the
    construction of a container berth under a BOT scheme. (See Annex 2 of SAR for details).

Of the above seven sub-objectives, three were fully met, two partially met and one has not yet been
achieved. Overall, the objective is rated satisfactory.

i)       Sector and regulatory reforms: This objective was fully met. A new port law was promulgated in
1999 and all implementation decrees were published a short time thereafter. Under this law, the monopoly
of the longshoremen was abolished and all staff of the pool either retired, or left in 2004 with a
compensation package financed under a grant from the European Union (666 longshoremen), or were
rehired by private stevedores or the STAM (93 longshoremen). Removing the social bottlenecks that
prevented full fruition of the port reform paved the way for a restructuring of ship handling operations
where the OMMP has been gradually shifting its role from a port operator to that of a Landlord port, a
model conducive to competition for the provision of port services. Furthermore, in regional ports, the
private handlers have regrouped within a private company in 2005 to operate in competition with the public
operator STAM under concession contracts with the OMMP. Finally, the financial situation of the OMMP
is much stronger than anticipated at appraisal and all the project financial covenants have been met.

ii)      Trade facilitation measures and modernization of custom procedures:These reforms were
prepared and planned under the project, but have been implemented under the Bank's Export Development
Project (EDP) of 1999. Achievement of this sub-objective is rated satisfactory as measures were
successfully implemented. The trade facilitation component of the project amounted to US$19 million, of
which $15 million was to be financed by the Bank, including: (a) the development of simplified trade
documents along international standards and of modern data interchange systems for faster transmission of
documents; (b) dissemination of modern trade logistics among port and traders communities; and (c)
introduction of simplified custom clearance procedures and scanners for the ports. According to the ICR
for the EDP (March 23, 2005), the implementation of the trade facilitation component was highly
successful. The modernized customs organization is now more focused on trade facilitation than control,
and the Tunisie Tradenet (TTN) system is considered one of the most innovative trade documents
processing scheme in the region. Several other countries are now in the process of implementing
single-window trade transaction based on the experience of TTN.

iii)     Modification of port tariffs and price regulation of port services:This sub-objective was not met
as the tariff restructuring, which was to take place no later than December 31, 1999, is yet to come about.
The Government first requested an amendment to the Loan Agreement to postpone the date to the end of
2002, the original loan closing date. After lengthy prodding by the Bank, the procedure for hiring a
consultant was initiated in 2004 and a firm selected but the contract was never signed. The Government
then proposed to deal with the matter with its own resources in 2006, after the closing date of the project.
The delayed tariff restructuring has not affected the implementation of the core ports reforms, but it may
contribute to maximize the benefits expected from the Landlord Model organization.

iv)      Restructuring of STAM: This component of the objective to attract private investment has been
partially met. Within the reform of cargo handling the STAM successfully implemented a social plan.


                                                     - 6 -

However, the STAM remains a State-Owned Enterprise. Nevertheless, the concessioning of STAM's port
handling services under concession contract and competition with private operators in regional ports is a
major step towards improving efficiency and anchoring competition in ports operations.

v)       Restructuring of CTN: Given the liberalization of the shipping sector and full commercialization of
the CTN this sub-objective was met. A business plan was adopted focusing on the core business of CTN,
namely trans-Mediterranean roll on - roll off trade, ferry traffic, plus container transport to and from
Europe. CTN funded and executed a severance program that reduced its staff by half and ships not serving
the core functions were sold to private investors. Tunisian ship owners have a 25 percent market share in
which CTN accounts for only 6 percent.

vi)      Establishing a port concession framework and inviting bids for the construction of a container
berth under a BOT scheme: This component of the objective was partially met. The Landlord Model is
conducive to the private provision of port services and enables the OMMP to enter into concession
contracts. Consequently the OMMP has already stopped investing into new port handling equipment. A
new container facility is being developed with and operated by a private company under a BOT scheme.
Bidding documents have been prepared for this container terminal as well as a cruise-ship terminal, built in
La Goulette. Invitation for bids have been launched in early 2006 and transactions will likely take place by
the end of 2006.

Objective 2: Facilitating access of foreign investors to trade related transport activities

This objective was met through reform of handling operations and concession transactions. Significant
progress has been made in overall trade facilitation and customs under the Bank Export Development
Project, as described above. Concessions of specialized terminals in 2005 paved the way for private
investment, and both the Radès Container Terminal and La Goulette Passenger Terminal transactions
should now attract private investors. The OMMP has also started feasibility studies for the concessioning
of towing services, while it is too early to determine the level of foreign investor interest. The new
regulatory and institutional framework is conducive to attracting prominent private investors.

Objective 3: Commercializing the state controlled railway company (SNCFT) and giving it financial
autonomy

This objective is rated satisfactory; however because of the shortcoming in realizing fully the appraised
program, it would have been rated moderately satisfactory on a six point scale. The SAR indicates that this
objective required: (i) new legislation and regulation to make the railway financially autonomous; (ii) tariff
adjustments when warranted; and (iii) full transparent compensation for PSOs imposed by the Government.
Despite the new legal framework and effective compensation of PSOs, the financial situation of the SNCFT
remains fragile and is deteriorating again. The second component of the three sub-objectives was partially
met. The regulatory and tariff reforms have had the following impact:

i)       Regulatory reform making the railway financially autonomous. A new rail legislation, redefining
the relationship between the SNCFT and the Government, was first promulgated in 1998, and SNCFT was
restructured along four business lines: suburban and inter-city passenger services, phosphate and general
cargo traffic. The new contractual relationship with the Government gives more leeway to the railways on
setting the tariff and also provides for the planned compensation of public service obligations imposed by
the government. The social impact of the plan led to the retrenchment of some 1,500 persons, almost 20
percent of the work force, financed by the project and successfully completed by 2000. However the new
organization based on business lines was not fully implemented.



                                                     - 7 -

The late formalization of the PSO contributions, combined with stagnant freight traffic and wage increases
exceeding productivity gains despite the sizable staff cuts, led to serious fiscal deterioration of the railways
in 2001. The mid-term review in July 2001 found that fourteen financial and operational covenants under
the Loan and Project Agreements had not been complied with. Though a restructuring plan was prepared
by the end of 2001, it did not have formal Government approval, and the Bank considered suspending the
project. That decision did not materialize as in February 2002 the Government provided a plan to write off
excess debt and compensate for losses incurred. The costly (DT70 million) financial restructuring and the
agreement on tariffs and PSO improved the financial situation in 2003, eliminating almost all deficit.
Government financial support amounts to almost 30% of operating revenues, about two-thirds from PSO
compensation and one-third for maintaining infrastructure.

Although the SNCFT's financial situation stabilized in 2004 and 2005, and revenues are now increasing ­
inter-city passenger traffic is doing well and so are the suburban services compensated by PSO (Table 1) -
the continuing deterioration of freight traffic affects revenues, thereby unmet operational and financial
covenants are again a cause for concern. Phosphate freight, the largest cargo traffic, fluctuates annually
following volatility of the the international market and is hampered by commercialization hurdles of the
relatively poor quality of Tunisian ore. Furthermore, phosphate tariff does not take into account operational
costs, which will further penalize SNCFT. Consequently the contractual covenant on tariff could not be
met. The volumes of general cargo traffic have been decreasing every year (Table 2), losing over 30%
since 1999 as the railway cannot compete with road transport. It is estimated that the railway's share is
only 5% of that market in Tunisia.

Table 1: Railway Traffic (million Traffic Units*)

         Traffic              1999         2000        2001          2002          2003         2004          2005
 Phosphate                    1635         1564        1,613        1,661         1,614        1,540        1,527
 Other Freight                 789         709          665          589           561           542         540
 Mainline Passengers           815         782          819          825           786           826         837
 Suburban Passengers           411         414          439          460           457           467         482
 Total Traffic Units          3650         3469        3,536        3,535         3,418        3,375        3,386
*Traffic Units = ton x km + passenger x km.

As a result, the proposed restructuring of railways did not have the expected financial results. There is need
for a radical change in the railways business strategy that concentrates on viable niches and other PSP for
which it can be fully compensated.

ii)      Tariff adjustment: Complete tariff freedom was granted only for freight transport, while all
passenger fares, even on commercially viable services, still have to be approved by the Ministry of
Transport and that of Commerce, which negatively affects the SNCFT revenues. Adjustments to tariffs on
phosphate to better reflect costs could not be implemented even after protracted negotiations between the
SNCFT and the phosphate company in 2002. The Government therefore stepped in and ruled in favor of
the phosphate company, which did not want to pay for current rail service inefficiencies. Consequently, the
objective of this component was not met. This matter is being dealt with the ongoing second phase of the
APL.

iii)     Compensation for public service obligations : Passenger services on two main railway lines,
which the Government did not allow SNCFT to discontinue, and suburban services operate under PSO
contracts and payments have been received on time. This part of the objective was met.



                                                     - 8 -

Objective 4: Reducing transport-induced pollution by promoting the use of less polluting fuels
(lead-free gasoline and cleaner diesel)

This objective was met and is rated as highly satisfactory.

As a consequence of policy measures, the use of unleaded gas has increased gradually from 4 percent in
1998 to 71 percent in 2005, exceeding the target of 66 percent. A regulation limiting the sulfur content of
fuel to 0.035 percent has been approved and has been effective. The specific Action Plan to mitigate
transport induced pollution was found satisfactory by the Bank and its implementation has proceeded well.
Four fixed stations for the monitoring of air quality have been installed in Tunis area, two at Sfax and one
each in Bizerte and Sousse. Information bulletins on air quality in these cities are issued regularly. So far,
while transport is the main contributor to air pollution in the cities, the concentration of noxious products is
below acceptable norms.

4.2 Outputs by components:
A.       Port and Trade Facilitation Component

The output of this component is rated satisfactory, given the high benefits for trade and Tunisian economy
arising from completed reforms and the little impact of delays affecting some investments. OMMP will
complete all ongoing works.

Civil Works The rehabilitation of commercial berths in Bizerte was completed successfully. The other two
components took more time to get started and their implementation was delayed by design and procurement
issues. Contracting for works or studies under the project has taken from 17 to 37 months, with an average
of 24 months between calling for bids and signing of contracts. This inordinate amount of time was beyond
the control of the project. The extension of the breakwater in Gabès was completed in December 2005, just
within the loan's closing date. Deliberations on the best way to handle oil products finally concluded that
building an oil berth in Radès would still present risks for other activities and capacity may best be
regrouped in a single location. It was decided instead to use the space reserved for this berth to develop a
bulk terminal. New studies were required and the construction contract was finally signed in June 2005.
Construction of the berth is ongoing, but could not be completed before the project closing date. The
OMMP has given assurances that works will be completed in 2006 and agreed to finance the remaining
works, thereby ensuring all investments supported by the project will be carried out.

Technical Assistance, Studies and Training Both, the study to optimize the design of the extension of the
breakwater in Gabès as well as the preparation of bidding documents for the Radès container terminal
under a BOT scheme were completed satisfactorily. The study on port tariffs was postponed, but OMMP
has a sound financial situation and the effective implementation of the landlord model is the main driver of
efficiency gains in port operations. The identification of dumping sites for dredged material was delayed by
the late completion of a campaign to test sea beds carried out by the OMMP with its own funds, and could
not be finished by the project closing date. OMMP gave assurance that it would complete it with its own
funds. The training program agreed at appraisal was achieved mainly with OMMP and European Union
funds, and hence, OMMP decided not to use proceeds from the loan for this purpose. OMMP staff, in
particular, has participated in a number of seminars on concessions or private sector's participation in
building of infrastructure.

The technical assistance and training in the port sub-sector, to be financed under the project, were not
monitored directly by the Bank. The Government has undertaken initiatives required to achieve the overall



                                                      - 9 -

project objectives in the port sector, as discussed above. Activities related to trade facilitation and custom
modernization and to developing the Landlord Port Model with new organization of cargo handling were
successfully completed. The development of other concession regimes for new berths and towing services
are still underway.

B.        Railways Component

Given major achievements, the output of this component is rated satisfactory.

Infrastructure Improvement: Works to modernize and increase the capacity of the Tunis-Sousse Line were
successfully completed and have substantially reduced the travel time of passenger trains. Journey time
from Tunis to Sousse is now 1 hour 45 minutes instead of 2 hours 20 minutes and Tunis to Gabès travel
time is 5 hours 10 minutes instead of 7 hours. Track renewal works between Tunis and the Algerian border
and the construction of overpasses in Tunis suburbs have also been completed satisfactorily. The latter
reduced congestion and pollution in the urban area. Because the expenditure on these works exceeded the
estimated cost, no funds were available for the planned environmental improvement of the workshops.
However the environmental study has now been financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and
work on the improvement of the workshops will proceed after identifying the necessary procedures.

Severance Program: Payments were successfully made to some 1400 staff (see details in previous sections).


Consulting services and technical assistance: Services estimated at US$1.9 million could only be realized
up to US$200,000 due again to the shortage of funds after the completion of civil works. Consequently, the
restructuring plan of SNCFT, as envisaged in the XIth Development Plan for the railways, could not be
implemented. In hindsight, the Bank should not have financed the cost overrun of the infrastructure
components and instead used these resources for technical assistance and studies to strengthen the project
impact on the sector efficiency. Nevertheless, the assistance of AfDB has been mobilized and received by
SNCFT, with the approval of the Bank.

C.        Sector Management Component

This component is rated satisfactory, since all studies were completed and the network of air pollution
monitoring stations effectively established.

The feasibility study and preliminary design of mass transit systems for the Greater Tunis Area was
completed in 2005 and the reports have been praised for their quality. The study for a National Transport
Plan was satisfactorily completed in 2004 and the development of a sector data base completed in
December 2005. Computer equipment needed to run the data base could not be financed by the project due
to the late issuance of bids further to delays in the procurement process and reviews. With respect to
actions under the Government responsibility, air quality monitoring stations are operational in five of the
six planned cities (Tunis, Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte, Gabès) and under construction in the sixth (Kairouan).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Using the same methodology as at appraisal, economic rates of return have been re-estimated for three port
components: rehabilitation of the berths at Bizerte (Internal Rate of Return - IRR- at 20%), construction of
a bulk berth at Radès (IRR 14%) and extension of the breakwater at Gabès (IIR 24%). The re-estimated
IRRs confirm the justification of all the project port investments. The economic analysis covered the track
improvement and the staff severance program for the railways. The main benefits of track investment will



                                                    - 10 -

only fully materialize with the improved signalization now being contracted and the introduction of new
passenger trains in 2008. The SNCFT will then be able to offer an hourly service between Tunis and
Sousse, with a trip duration shortened to one and a half hour. In the meantime, the project has already
resulted in maintenance cost savings of some 22%. The fully realized severance program provides SNCFT
with annual savings roughly equal to the cost of the program, a very high return indeed.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial condition of the OMMP has been very good throughout the project execution period although
not all the financial covenants have been met. This was, however, not the case for the railways, as detailed
above. The SNCFT posted losses during the entire project time frame (table 3).

Table 3: Financial situation of OMMP and SNCFT

                                                           1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004              2005
  OMMP
  - Ratio working expenses/operating revenues                68   54.9   61.8 58.6    63    60.4 62.9       n/a
  (<50%)
  - Debt to equity ratio (<55/45)                           22.2 23.9    22.3 19.6 18.4 16.3 15.1           n/a
  SNCFT
  - Deficit (million DT)                                    - 7.5 - 6.2    -   - 15.7  -     -     - 0.9   -0.8
                                                                         18.8         5.5   0.8
  - Government Contribution (Including. PSO) (million                                 24.6 26.9 27.2       27.3
  DT)
 - Ratio personnel expenditures/ total operational          0.62 0.54 0.57 0.59 0.58 0.58 0.59             0.58
 revenues (<45% after 2001)
  - Ratio debt service (>1.2 )                             0.25 0.28 0.04 0.07 0.7          0.9   1.1       n/a

The covenant on the ratio of railways personnel expenditures to total operational revenues was never met,
because of a salary policy, which provided for annual salary increases across the board in all public
enterprises and was thus outside the control of SNCFT.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the project on institutional development has been substantial. The implementation of major
reforms in ports and railways, following the adoption of new laws for both sub-sectors, has had a profound
effect on the way of doing business in these transport sub-sectors and changed both the management culture
of the sector institutions, and the attitude and behavior of the staff, resulting in improved quality of service.
Thus the introduction of the Landlord model is refocusing the OMMP on its role as Landlord and regulator
of concession contracts; and the organization of the SNCFT along business lines is conducive to more
commercially oriented management operations. The commercialization introduced in both modes and the
increased role for the private sector in the ports has led to further efficiency gains for port users.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major external factors affecting the implementation of the project. However, financial
performance of implementing agencies were affected by market trends. Port traffic increased regularly until
2002, then dropped a little in 2003 and recovered partially in 2004. Transportation of phosphate, which
accounts for 30% of the railway's total revenues and volumes, stagnated from 1999 to 2005, following the
fluctuations of the international market. There is little other cargo typically suited for rail transport, i.e.
bulk commodities moving over long distances, available in Tunisia. So general cargo, which fell over 30%



                                                     - 11 -

since 1999, is suffering directly from the increasing road competition which can offer cheaper door to door
services.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The successful enactment of the new port and railway laws and the implementation of the reforms
mandated by the laws, in particular staff retrenchment in both sub-sectors, the restructuring of port
handling operations, and effective introduction of railways Public Service Obligations resulted from full
Government support. These were difficult issues, requiring political will and broad consensus among all
stakeholders, in particular the staff unions. Good progress was eventually achieved, although a few years
behind the original schedule. The cumbersome procurement procedures of the Commission Supérieure des
Marchés (Superior Commission of Public Contracts) contributed to the delays. As already mentioned, the
average time from issue of bidding documents to contract signature was 24 months. The latter issue was
critical in the implementation pace, and the GOT could have given serious attention to delays.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Both the OMMP and SNCFT have made good efforts to implement the objectives of the reforms and
project components. However, port investments took much longer than anticipated at appraisal due to
external reasons, such as procurement procedures, but also due to insufficiently tight management of design
studies and bidding of works. SNCFT's commitment to the restructuring plan was instrumental in the
achievement of planned staff reductions in railways.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final project cost of US$79.7 million is very close to the appraisal estimate of US$80.2 million.
Increased expenditures by Government (131.5% of the estimate) made up the difference (79.9%).
Improving the railway infrastructure has cost more than estimated with respect to investments, while
expenditures under the port component were lower due to non completion of the Rades terminal and Gabes
breakwater works by the closing date. With its good financial situation, the OMMP was able to finance
more of the project than anticipated and used only about half of its loan amount. Conversely, the railways
used all their allocation and had to use their own funds to complete the works. The cost of the sector
management component was close to the estimate as all studies had been successfully carried out. With
respect to Government financed activities, installation costs of air monitoring stations were lower than
planned and technical assistance on trade was financed by Government out of the project. Details are in
Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated likely.

An in-depth reform has been successfully achieved in the port sector which enjoys Government
commitments. The implementation of the Landlord model has opened up port services to private operators
and has led to more competition conducive to cost reductions for users. This, combined with trade
facilitation measures and custom modernization, achieved under another project, augurs well for continuing
increases in efficiency and quality of service. Further improvements could be obtained with the effective
concessioning of new terminals, especially for container handling at Radès, the productivity of which
remains well below that of modern European ports. The launch of the tender for that concession reaffirms
although high in the region Government's commitment to introduce more competition.

Railway reforms were successful in establishing a contractual framework conducive to a more commercial
attitude and improved performance by SNCFT, and ensuring effective compensation of Public Service



                                                    - 12 -

Obligations. However the SNCFT remains fragile, despite the good performance of long distance passenger
services. It still faces a declining rail freight market, besides phosphate, well suited to more flexible door to
door services offered by road transport. Moreover, SNCFT is still denied for social and political reasons,
the right to discontinue services on uneconomic low density passenger lines confronted with the competition
of private bus services. Achieving financial sustainability in railway operations will require further
efficiency gains and a forceful implementation of a strategy focusing on profitable niche markets where
SNCFT has a competitive advantage, in terms of quality of service and costs. Therefore the goal of
financial autonomy of the project for the SNCFT remains elusive in the prevailing context unless a new
business strategy is adopted and supported by the government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transition arrangements were necessary as the OMMP and SNCFT were the implementing agencies and
always in regular operation.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Given the importance of reforms achieved and their crucial role in informing the sector efficiently, the Bank
performance is rated satisfactory.

The project concept was based on the transport sector strategy developed by the Bank and the Government,
at the latter's request for the preparation of the Ninth Plan (1997-2001). There were some discussions as to
the most appropriate form of lending. The Government explicitly stated that it did not want an adjustment
operation because it would then have to bear the brunt of the reforms without compensation. The shorter
horizon of adjustment lending would neither offer the time nor the flexibility required for full
implementation of reforms. An investment Loan, on the other hand, would channel Bank's financial support
to the sector rather than to the Treasury and also provide transport institutions with outside expert
assistance and Bank technical support through a multi-year building process. It appeared that the
Government was ready to move rapidly with reforms of the port and railway sector, as new laws for both
had been drafted, while a third priority, urban transport, required more studies. It was then decided to go
with an adaptable program loan, with two phases some three years apart. In fact it turned out that the
choice of the investment and the scope of the projects were adequate. Assumptions regarding the
implementation pace of the sector reforms were too optimistic. The optimism was reflected in the large
number of dated covenants, of which only few could actually be met on time. In spite of these delays, and
in face of the importance of the reforms and the Bank's critical role in improving the sector efficiency, the
Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in FY2000 and found satisfactory
overall as well as in each of the main assessment components. The rating is confirmed.

There was almost complete continuity in the Bank team's involvement throughout preparation and
implementation. The original task manager retired in 2003, when the bulk of the reforms had already been
completed. The same railway specialist dealt with the project from its preparation to closing stage. The
supervision missions visited regularly twice a year, by and large procurement documents were reviewed in
a timely manner, and Bank staff was closely involved in advising the Government, the OMMP and SNCFT
on structural reforms and in preparing the concession regime for the ports. The Bank team showed both
firmness and flexibility in the face of unmet Loan covenants, in recognizing the political and economic



                                                       - 13 -

impediments to these reforms by accommodating revised dates for meeting covenants, and changes in
investment components.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance at preparation stage is rated satisfactory.

The Government sought Bank support in defining the transport sector strategy for the Ninth Plan
(1997-2001). The main recommendations of the Bank were endorsed by GOT in 1996 and their
implementation started under the ECAL and a PHRD grant. Reforms progressed with the drafting of new
laws for the railways and the port and maritime sectors, which were to be sent to Parliament before the end
of 1998. The Government was, therefore, fully supportive of the project, as confirmed by its Transport
Policy Letter addressed to the Bank in May 1998. During negotiations, Government requested that
deadlines for action be pushed back by at least six months and in most instances by one year from the
original dates proposed by the Bank, thus recognizing the political and social difficulty of enacting these
reforms. As already mentioned, even the agreed dates proved a challenge.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government is rated satisfactory during implementation.

The Government promptly passed the new port and railways laws, and finally implemented the mandated
reforms despite many hurdles. Certainly it took longer than expected and some elements of the reforms are
still to take place. For example state enterprises such as STAM, CNT and SNCFT have, to a different
extent, commercialized their operations but are yet to open to the private sector. Agreements have been
partially met regarding railway tariff setting and the closing of non-economic lines or payment of
compensation for losses. The difficulty of implementing reforms, however, should be recognized when
assessing the over-optimism of the initial implementation time frame.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of Implementing Agencies has been satisfactory.

SNCFT has successfully followed through with the planned staff retrenchment program and has been
reorganized by lines of business, thereby substantially increasing its physical productivity. Although it still
operates like a state enterprise rather than a private sector, it essentially restored its financial accounts at
the end of the project period. The OMMP has successfully moved towards the landlord port model of
operation and contributed to solving the longshoremen issue; its financial situation is sound. Long delays in
implementing studies and investments, which cannot only be imputed to procurement procedures, would
have led to rate OMMP's performance moderately satisfactory on a six point scale.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

     The implementation pace of reforms and related risks should be properly assessed on the basis of
     past experience. Once a law is passed, the next step is to issue implementation decrees that specify
     how various sections of the law should be implemented. Abolishing long term privileges, such as those
     of the longshoremen is not an easy task and requires protracted negotiations. Changing the attitude and


                                                    - 14 -

     modus operandi of railway workers cannot be achieved only by a new organization chart. The risk of
     implementation delays should have received more consideration when deciding the closing date, which
     was unduly short (4 years) for a project entailing complex reforms.

     Too many dated covenants are not effective. During preparation it was recognized that the numerous
     target dates would require more thorough monitoring and greater supervision by the Bank, but it was
     worthwhile given the importance of reforms. However, covenants were not sufficient to affect the pace
     of reforms. There is always a dilemma as to the best way to keep pressure on the borrower to achieve
     agreed objectives. In the end, the Bank has only few remedies besides suspension.

     A strong business base for services and market trends is important in reaching financial
     sustainability objectives for revenue generating entities.This is illustrated in this project by the
     contrast between the OMMP (which has benefited from a developing market as in most countries) and
     the SNCFT which, like in other countries, is overly regulated by Government and struggling against
     road competition on general cargo.

     Achieving privatization objectives depends upon the convergence of a supportive environment and
     strong and continuing Government commitment. The Bank was pushing for privatization in the port
     sector, for instance STAM and CTN, while the Government, though considering privatization an
     option, did not want to commit itself. The language retained was that opening the capital of state owned
     companies to the private sector would be pursued if further studies showed that to be feasible. The
     important matter is to ensure the eventual efficiency and economy of the services provided and the
     financial autonomy of the organization, rather than a dogmatic position for privatization.

     As regards staff reduction, unconditional volunteering may deplete the most skilled resources.
     Instead, setting criteria for the eligibility to redundancy package should be considered. This was only
     partially done in the case of SNCFT where some people who left should have been retained, while other
     who stayed, should have been encouraged to leave.

     It is possible to achieve substantial reforms and institutional development under investment lending
     operations. As mentioned in 7.1, an adjustment lending operation had been considered and rejected by
     the Government. The investment loan did not only channel the Bank's financial support to the transport
     sector, but also facilitated the dialogue with the sector institutions and the provision of expert
     assistance and technical support over a number of years.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    The Borrower's completion report attached in Annex 8 is very comprehensive and detailed with many
    tables and graphs. It is structured in three parts according to the project components: railways, ports,
    sector management, and environment improvement with each sub-sector following basically the outline
    of this report. The Borrower concludes that the project objectives have been reached satisfactorily with
    improvements and development in all of the four parts of the project. This includes in particular the
    move toward a more commercial operation of the railways, the operation of the ports according to the
    Landlord port model and the successful completion of various planning studies together with significant
    progress in the use of cleaner fuels in the transport sector.

    The report consists of the following sections:




                                                        - 15 -

    Introduction.This section describes the 9th plan strategy, the objective of which is to define a global
    approach of the transport system within the medium to long run.

    Railway component..This section presents an evaluation of the objectives and the extent to which they
    have been met and the measures taken to achieve them. It gives details of the execution of the various
    components and lists the actions which had to be postponed for lack of funds.

    Port component. This section follows basically the same format as that of the railways. It relates the
    achievements in reforming the sector, particularly the successful reform of labor in ports, including the
    suppression of the STAM monopoly for longshoremen. Progress with concessions is reported in stages,
    showing: concessions already granted, concessions in an advanced stage of negotiations, concessions
    being negotiated and those in preparation. A third section covers the economic re-evaluation based on
    actual costs and benefits of the various components.

    Sector Management. This section presents the studies conducted under the project, the status of the
    transport data base and the training program for the personnel of the transport ministry.

    Action program for the introduction of less polluting fuels and monitoring of air quality in various
    cities. This section presents the very successful results achieved by the program such as the much
    higher use of unleaded fuel than expected in such a short period, the good progress with cleaner diesel
    and the monitoring stations installed in Tunis and its suburbs, Sfax, Bizerte, Sousse and Gabès.

   The assistance of the Bank is mentioned favorably in the various sections of the report.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Transport sector share of investmt       3.5% (2005)                    3.4%
    in % of GDP
2. Labor productivity increase              50%                            47%
    50% between 1998 and 2005
3. Private sector share of transport        >50% (2005)                    55%
    investment
4. -Reduction of tranpsort subsidies        >0.2% (2005)                   1.1%
     in % of GDP
     -Rail: subsidies in % of operating      <40%                           49%
     revenue

5. -Lead content of gas not exceeding       <0.15g/l (2005)                0.4g/l
     0.15g/l;
    -Share of unleaded gas in total gas      >33% (2005)                    71%
     consumoption above 1/3;
    -Share of sulfur below 0.05%of diesel    <0.05% (2005)                  0.035%
      weight




                                                         - 17 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Railways reforms:
     -Passing of legislation and issuance         Regulations enacted           Regulations enacted
      of related regulations
     -Closing of current loss-making              Services closed               Maintained
      services-
2. Ports reforms
   -Implementation of the new port                Implemented                   Implemented
    legislation-
   -Private share of general cargo handling       100%                          67%
    near 100% in 2002
   -Bids for container quay BOT in Rades          Bid issued                    Delayed
   invited by June 1999
   -STAM restructured by 2001 and CTN             STAM and CTN restructured     CTN restructured
   by 2002
   -Towage privatized by 2002                    Towage privatized              Under preparation
3. Sector Management Reforms
   - Liberalization measures of commercial        Measures enacted              n/a
     vehicle imports
   - Plan to correct transport tax distortions    Plan Adopted                  n/a
    adopted by 2000
   -Regulations trucking in effect before         Regulations in effect         n/a
    the end of 1998
   -Pricing freedom from 2001 except for          Freedom of Tariffs            Partially
    urban transport services

4. Railways Performance
   -Rail traffic unit per staff                   600                           624
   -Passenger travel time Tunis-Sousse            1h45                          1h45
    cut by 30 minutes by 2002 (1h45)-
   and average delays of passenger trains         Achieved                      Achieved
   cut by half
   -Rail PassKm Tunis-Sousse (M)                 145                            250
   -Rail T/K Tunis-Sousse (M)                    110                            87
   -Completion of modernization works            Completed                      Completed
    of workshops
   -Full coverage of costs by phosphate          Achived                        Partial Coverage
    tariff in 1999

5. Ports Performance
   -TEUs/crane/h at Rades                        14                             14
   -Traffic on Bizerte quay '000T                525                            589
   -Storage time of imported TEU in
    Radnès                                       6d                             9d
   -Combined port bill for containers            Achieved                       n/a
    reduced by 30% in 2002
6. Sector Managment
    -Draft transport plan for 2002-2006          Ready                          Ready
    -National Management Information             Operational                    System Developed
     System operational
    -Physical and financial indicators                                          n/a
     published within three months
    -Share of Tunisian operators in total        7%                             7%
     international transport contracts >35%
    -Liasse unique and SITAIP projects           Done                           Partially
     operational by 2000
7. Preparation of city transport master         Tunis RFR only                  APS completed
    plans

1End of project




                                                             - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Railway component                                        47.00          53.70              115
B. Ports and Trade Facilitation                             21.00          17.60               78
C. Sector Management Componemt                               4.90            6.40             129
D. Component Financed by Government                          7.30            2.00

Total Baseline Cost                                         80.20          79.70
                         Total Project Costs                80.20          79.70
                  Total Financing Required                  80.20          79.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          24.30             6.20         0.30         10.60        41.40
                                 (14.50)           (3.70)      (0.20)         (0.00)      (18.40)
2. Goods                           3.30             1.00         2.80         0.00          7.10
                                  (3.30)           (1.00)      (2.80)         (0.00)       (7.10)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         7.70         0.00          7.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (7.70)         (0.00)       (7.70)
4. Severance for SNCFT             0.00             0.00        16.80         0.00         16.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (16.80)        (0.00)      (16.80)
5. Components Financed             0.00             0.00         0.30         6.90          7.20
by Government                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          27.60             7.20        27.90         17.50        80.20
                                 (17.80)           (4.70)      (27.50)        (0.00)      (50.00)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 16.00              8.62              0.05             20.98            45.65
                                           (5.47)             (5.39)            (0.01)            (0.00)           (10.87)
   2. Goods                                 6.22               1.78              0.14             0.00              8.14
                                           (6.22)             (1.78)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (8.14)
   3. Services                              7.18               0.00              0.29             0.64              8.11
                                           (5.03)             (0.00)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (5.17)
   4. Severance for SNCFT                   0.00               0.00             15.77             0.00             15.77
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.77)            (0.00)           (15.77)
   5. Components Financed                   0.00               0.00              2.01             0.00              2.01
   by Government                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                29.40             10.40             18.26             21.62            79.68
                                           (16.72)            (7.17)           (16.06)            (0.00)           (39.95)
   w
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Railway Component           32.10        14.90                    29.33         24.37                 91.4     163.6
B. Ports and Trade             13.00         8.00                     5.92         11.67                 45.5     145.9
Facilitation
C. Sector Management            4.90                                  4.71         1.68                  96.1
Component
D. Component Financed by
Government
- Studies                                    3.70                                                                  0.0
- Air Monitoring Stations                    3.60                                  2.00                            55.6
TOTAL                          50.00        30.20                    39.95         39.72                 79.9     131.5




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 Port component:

 - Economic costs and benefits of the rehabilitation of commercial berths in Bizerte




                                                  - 21 -

- Economic costs and benefits of the Gabes breakwater




                                                - 22 -

Railways component:
- Economic costs and benefits of the Tunis-Sousse line improvements




- Economic costs and benefits of the redundancy program




                                                 - 23 -

- 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/15/1996                4    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/
                                             TTL (1) TRANSPORT
                                             ENGINEER (1), RAILWAY
                                             SPECIALIST (1) ENVIRON.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              02/26/1997                1     TRANSPORT ECONOMIST,
                                             TTL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/26/1997                6    TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST/ TTL (1),
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER
                                             (2), ENVIRON.
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1)
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
              05/07/1998                4    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/
                                             TTL (1), OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1), LEGAL (1),
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
              11/04/1998                3    TRANSPORT                        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST/ TTL (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER
                                             (1); RAILWAY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/14/1998                3    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/             S               S
                                             TTL (1); RAILWAY
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/26/1999                3    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/             S               S
                                             TTL (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/01/1999                4    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/             S               S
                                             TTL (1); RAILWAY
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/23/2000                5    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/             S               S
                                             TTL (1); RAILWAY
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 25 -

                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           SPECISALIST (1)
               03/14/2001              3   TRANSPORT                          S    S
                                           ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                           RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PORT SPECIALIST (1)
               07/14/2001              5   TRANPOSRT ECONOMIST,               U    U
                                           TTL (1); RAILWAY EXPERT
                                           (1); URBAN TRANSPORT
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1); PORT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               10/26/2001              2   TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);           U    U
                                           RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1)
               04/27/2002              2   TRANSPORT                          S    S
                                           ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                           RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1)
               09/21/2002              3   TRANSPORT                          S    S
                                           ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                           RAILWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PORT SPECIALIST (CONS) (1)
               06/21/2003              3   TRANSPORT ECONOMIST/               S    S
                                           TTL (1); RAILWAYS
                                           SPCIALIST (1); PORT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               01/09/2004              1   LEAD TRANSP. SPEC/TTL (1)          S    S
               07/23/2004              2   LEAD TRANSP. SPEC/TTL (1);         S    S
                                           RAILWAYS SPECIALIST (1)
               01/10/2005              5   LEAD TRANSPORT                     S    S
                                           SPECIALIST/ TTL (1); SR.
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1); RAILWAY
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); SR. URBAN TRANSPORT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
                                      1     ECONOMIST                         S    S
                                            TRANSPORT (1)


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         498.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        594.0
  ICR                                                                  25.0
  Total                                                            1,117.0




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Railway redundancy
program
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Restructuring port services




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Project Appraisal Document (June 3, 1998)
- Legal documents
- Project Supervision Reports and Implementation Status and Results Reports
- Progress reports
- Mid-term review report
- Borrower's Completion Report (March 2006)




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Contribution

                                        REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE

                                       MINISTERE DU TRANSPORT

                                   RAPPORT DE CLOTURE DU PROJET
                                      SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
                                                  (Phase I)


INTRODUCTION

         Le secteur du transport joue un rôle important pour le soutien qu'il apporte au développement de
l'économie et à l'amélioration de la qualité de vie. Des efforts appréciables ont été consentis dans les
différentes activités du transport de manière à faire bénéficier le secteur des réformes économiques
entreprises depuis 1987, à faciliter les échanges entre les centres de production, de commercialisation et
de distribution et de satisfaire les besoins en déplacement.

         Toutefois, les efforts devraient être renforcés en vue d'améliorer les performances du secteur
dans un souci de doter le pays d'une infrastructure plus efficace et mieux adaptée au nouveau contexte
d'intégration de la Tunisie à l'économie mondiale.

         Pour ce faire, une stratégie a été programmée pour le secteur du transport durant le neuvième
plan dont l'objectif est de définir une approche globale du système des transports tout en s'inscrivant
dans une perspective de développement à moyen et à long terme.

         Cette stratégie s'articule autour des principes suivants :

     1. Privilégier les investissements de qualité afin d'augmenter la productivité des équipements en
         les adaptant aux besoins économiques, tout en veillant à renforcer l'infrastructure routière et à
         intensifier la maintenance.
     2. Encourager l'initiative privée pour la réalisation des projets d'infrastructures à travers notamment
         la formule de concession.
     3. Orienter l'intervention de l'Etat en matière de compensation pour le transport urbain.
     4. Mettre à disposition les moyens de transport et prendre les mesures nécessaires pour le
         renouvellement du parc afin de réduire les coûts de l'entretien et de la consommation du
         carburant et de préserver l'environnement contre la pollution.
     5. Adapter le cadre législatif aux nécessités de la libéralisation du secteur et introduire plus de
         souplesse dans la gestion des sociétés nationales pour réduire les coûts et améliorer la
         productivité.
     6. Développer le transport multimodal en vue d'augmenter la productivité par le biais de la
         réduction du coût du transport et la fluidité du trafic.
     7. Encourager le partenariat dans le secteur du transport.
     8. Transférer l'exploitation des services à caractère commercial du secteur public au secteur privé
         dans un objectif d'amélioration de la productivité de ces services et la limitation de leurs coûts
         auprès des usagers.
     9. Réviser le rôle de l'administration centrale dans l'objectif de déléguer certainestâches techniques
         aux structures spécialisées.

         Les études entreprises dans le secteur ont servi à aborder tous les aspects liés aux différents
modes de transport et à définir les projets de réformes, de restructuration et d'investissement à mettre en
place pour la mise à niveau du secteur.




                                                     - 30 -

        L'étude stratégique a permis à la Banque Mondiale d'examiner le secteur et le présent projet
permettrait une assistance à la mise en oeuvre de la politique sectorielle des transports.

        Des missions successives de la Banque ont visité la Tunisie en Novembre 1996, en février. Mai
et Septembre 1997 et en Janvier 1998 pour discuter dés objectifs, des composantes, des conditions et
des modalités de mise en oeuvre d'un Projet Sectoriel des Transports. Les négociations finales du projet
ont eu lieu en début de Mai 1998 et les accords de prêt et de Garantie ont été signés le 29 Juin 1998
pour une première partie du projet qui couvrira quatre années du plan d'investissement (1999-2002). La
date de clôture étant fixée au 31 décembre 2002 .Cette date a été prolongée au 31/12/2004 , puis au
31/12/2005.Ces accords se traduisent par un financement sélectif d'actions prioritaires dans trois
domaines qui sont ; le secteur ferroviaire, le secteur portuaire et la gestion du secteur.

                                      COMPOSANTE FERROVIAIRE

I ­ Introduction :

        L'étude stratégique du transport ferroviaire réalisée dans le cadre de la préparation du IX plan
(1997-2001) de développement économique et social a permis d'identifier les actions à entreprendre
pour améliorer l'efficacité du mode ferroviaire et de préparer la SNCFT à évoluer dans un cadre
concurrentiel.

        La mise en application des réformes ainsi identifiées et des actions à entreprendre tant au
niveau de l'organisation qu'à celui de l'optimisation de l'outil de production ont permis de constituer la
composante ferroviaire du projet sectoriel des transports dans sa première phase.

        Cette composante a bénéficié du financement de la BIRD dans le cadre du prêt 4358-TUN signé
le 29/6/1998.

II ­ Evaluation des objectifs du projet :

        Le présent projet a permis de réaliser notamment les objectifs suivants :

     1. La refonte du cadre institutionnel permettant ainsi à laSNCFT de clarifier son rôle économique
        d'opérateur de transport ferroviaire, de préciser ses relations avec l'Etat et de renforcer sa
        fonction commerciale.
     2. La première phase du programme d'investissement visant la mise à niveau des infrastructures
        ferroviaires.
     3. La migration de la SNCFT vers un cadre commercial en renforçant sa compétitivité tant sur le
        plan de la qualité de service que sur celui de la compression du coût d'exploitation grâce
        notamment à la rationalisation des ressources humaines.

        Les mesures qui ont été concrétisées (voir annexe 1) conformément au programme de réforme
mis au point dans le cadre du Projet Sectoriel des Transports PST1 (dans sa composante ferroviaire) et
qui ont été accompagnées par un assainissement de la situation financière de la SNCFT à la fin 2001
ont permis d'atteindre l'équilibre financier de l'entreprise depuis 2003 et à améliorer ses performances
(cf. annexe 5). L'état de suivi des différents indicateurs, ratios et informations à partir de l'année 2000
jusqu'à 2005 (probable) est présenté en annexe 6.

        Il est à remarquer que tous les indicateurs ont connu une amélioration sur la période 1997 ­
2004 à l'exception du ratio des « frais du personnel / Recettes du trafic » qui a très peu régressé de 61%
en 1997 à seulement 59% en 2004 malgré la réalisation stricte du programme de dégagement du
personnel conformément aux prévisions contractuelles.

        Cette situation en fait le résultat d'une stagnation constatée tant au niveau des recettes du trafic
(et ce malgré la conjoncture difficile que connaît le transport de fret suite à la libéralisation du transport
de marchandises) qu'au niveau de la masse salariale pour laquelle l'effet des augmentations salariales



                                                    - 31 -

est quasi compensé par la réduction des effectifs.

         En fait, cette situation devrait s'améliorer nettement dès l'exercice 2008 avec le transport
additionnel de 8 millions de tonnes de phosphogypse par an sur une distance d'environ 30 km entre les
usines du Groupe Chimique Tunisien de Ghannouch et le site de mise en travail de M'Kacherma.

III ­ Réalisation financière :

         Le tableau de l'annexe 3 détaillé le coût global de la composante ferroviaire dont la valeur atteint
71,9 Millions de dinars dont 38,1 MD sont financés au titre du prêt.

         Il est à remarquer qu'une réallocation du fonds du prêt a été opéré en Août 2002 (voir annexe 2)
dans le but d'augmenter le montant alloué à la catégorie relative aux fournitures pour faire face aux
besoins en investissement.

         En effet, le montant total des décaissements au 30 mai 2002 est de 24,688 millions d'euros, soit
un taux de réalisation de 83%. Le détail par rubrique est présenté ci-après :

         Désignation                     En 1000 euros                  Taux de réalisation
Travaux                           3854                                   58%
Fournitures                       5402                                   88%
Indemnisation                     15379                                  100%
Personnel                         118                                    7%
              Total               24753                                  83%

         En tenant compte des marchés engagés et non achevés pour un montant de 4,091 millions
d'euros le nouveau taux de réalisation après
l'achèvement de ces marchés est de 97% détaillé comme suit :


                                                 Montant à                             Taux de
                                Montant         décaisser sur                        réalisation à
                                   déjà         marchés en           Total          l'achèvement
       Désignation               encaissé            cours        décaissement       des marchés
Travaux                           3854            1488            5342                    81%
Fournitures                       5402            2529            7931                    129%
Indemnisation personnel           15379                           15379                   100%
Etude et assistance               118             74              192                     12%
            Total                 24753           4091            28844                   97%

Les actions qui n'ont pas pu être financées dans le cadre du prêt sont les suivantes :

1. L'amélioration environnementale des ateliers (coût estimatif 500.000 $ EU) qui devait être identifiée
     suite à une étude financée dans le cadre du même prêt.
2. Les cinq études suivantes : (Coût estimatif : 1.000.000 $ EU) :

     ·   Refonte de la comptabilité analytique,
     ·   Réorganisation des unités d'appui,
     ·   Etude environnementale des ateliers,
     ·   Etude stratégique du matériel
     ·   Mise en place d'un entretien préventif de la voie sur la section en double voie Borj Cedria ­



                                                    - 32 -

     Kalaa Kébira.

          Parmi ces études, celle relative à la mise en place d'un entretien préventif sur la ligne à double
voie Borj Cedria-Kalaa Kébira a été réalisée, les 4 autres études sont inscrites dans le plan en cours et
financées par la BAD.

          Quant aux travaux d'amélioration environnementale des ateliers, ils seront engagés dès
l'identification des actions à entreprendre par l'étude correspondante.

IV ­ Réalisation des actions financées au titre du prêt 4358-TUN.

          Globalement, les tirages sur le prêt 4358-TUN de la composante ferroviaire ont été entièrement
consommés voire même dépassés de 53.900 Euros.

          En effet, le montant total des déblocages des crédits relatifs à ce prêt a atteint la valeur de
29.723806,47 euros soit 100,18 % du montant total du prêt BIRD 4358-TUN accordé à la composante
ferroviaire du Projet Sectoriel des Transports (PST1) arrêté à la valeur de 29.669.906,34 euros (voir
annexe 2).

          Cette enveloppe a permis l'achèvement des actions programmées à savoir (voir annexe 4) :

     1. le doublement de la voie entre Borj Cedria et Kalaa Kébira avec mise en service à partir du mois
          de juillet 2001,
     2. le dégagement de 1408 agents statutaires et de 162 agents saisonniers ce qui a permis de
          ramener les effectifs de la SNCFT de 7944 agents au 31 décembre 1996 à 6075 agents au 31
          décembre 2001 d'où la réalisation d'économies substantielles au niveau des charges du
          personnel,
     3. la construction du passage souterrain d'Ezzahra mis en service à partir du 31 juillet 2002 et du
          passage supérieur de Hammam-Lif mis en service à partir du mois d'avril 2003,
     4. l'acquisition du matériel de voie nécessaire au renouvellement de 26 km sur la ligne
          Tunis-Ghardimaou et la réalisation des travaux de renouvellement de la voie correspondants.

          La décomposition de ces réalisations selon la nature des composantes du projet est la suivante :

     ·    100 % au niveau de la rationalisation des effectifs
     ·    99 % au niveau des fournitures
     ·    103 % au niveau des travaux d'infrastructure
     ·    77 % au niveau des études

V ­ Evaluation du Projet :

A ­ Le doublement de la voie entre Tunis et Sousse :

          L'achèvement de doublement de la voie a intéressé les sections Borj Cedria ­ Bir Bou Regba et
Enfidha ­ Kalaa Kebira d'une longueur totale d'environ 80 km.

          Les principaux avantages tirés de cet investissement en infrastructure dont le coût atteint 41
Millions de Dinars (y compris 9 MD pour la signalisation dont le marché est en cours d'engagement) ne
seront complets qu'avec :

    l     La mise en service des rames voyageurs prévue en 2008 pour assurer un service cadencé à
          chaque heure entre Tunis et Sousse pour une durée de trajet de 1 H 30.
    l     La mise en application effective des recommandations de l'étude relative à l'entretien préventif
          réalisé en 2005.

          Néanmoins, plusieurs autres avantages quantifiables sont dus à ce projet dont notamment :



                                                     - 33 -

   l    Le coût d'entretien des voies des sections concernées par le projet qui a enregistré une réduction
        de 22 % passant d'une moyenne de 907.000 Dinars/an sur la période 2000 ­2001 à seulement
        710.000 D/an sur la période 2003 ­ 2004 juste après la réalisation de l'investissement. Cet écart
        devrait se creuser davantage avec l'avènement de l'entretien préventif à instaurer
        prochainement.
   l    La réduction de 50% des retards enregistrés sur la section Tunis-Sousse qui regresse de 14' à
        seulement 7'.

B - La rationalisation des effectifs :

        Le programme réalisé a permis de dégager 1408 agents statutaires et 162 agents saisonniers
pour le montant global de 19,408 millions de dinars.

        Compte tenu du salaire annuel moyen actuel de la SNCFT de 13,839 mille dinars, cette
indemnisation correspond à peu prés à 12 mois de salaire du personnel dégagé d'où l'intérêt de cette
opération surtout que le montant de la sous-traitance n'a pas subi d'augmentation sur la période 1997 ­
2005.

VI ­ Evaluation des performances au cours du déroulement des étapes du projet :

        Bien que les procédures de la BIRD soient différentes des nôtres, toutes les études ont abouti,
dans les délais, à la réalisation des projets prévus. Ce résultat n'a pu être atteint que grâce à l'ambiance
conviviale du travail sérieux accompli en véritable partenariat entre les experts de la BIRD et les
responsables de la SNCFT. En effet, la disponibilité, la compétence et la transparence des experts de la
BIRD, qui ont prévalu tout le long de l'exécution du projet, ont assuré à la SNCFT un apport majeur, une
grande assistance (explications, échanges de points de vues...) et un bon déroulement des diverses
étapes de réalisation du projet.

        Une telle coopération est de nature à faciliter la mise en oeuvre des programmes
d'investissements de la seconde étape du projet (PST2).

        Toutefois deux remarques sont à signaler :

1.      Le financement n'est pas global pour les projets de voie. Sont exclus
notamment :

    a. Les travaux quand ils sont confiés à Sotrafer. La BIRD exige un appel d'offres et même dans ce
        cas, Sotrafer n'est pas admise à participer. Or l'expérience a montré que lorsque nous faisons
        appel à la concurrence (AO International) il a été prouvé que Sotrafer propose des prix très
        compétitifs se traduisant par des économies substantielles sur le coût des projets de voie.
    b. Les traverses et le transport : Ces deux composantes interviennent pour une part non
        négligeable dans les projets de voie (de l'ordre de 20% par rapport au prix du km à renouveler
        ou à poser) mais ne sont effectués qu'en régie. Leur exclusion du financement, nous amène soit
        à les imputer sur le budget de l'Etat (paiement au comptant) soit à rechercher un autre bailleur
        de fond qui les finance.

2.      L'estimation initiale des coûts des projets est très juste :

        Il serait indiqué que les aléas soient revus vers la hausse et que les transferts entre rubriques
d'un même projet soient également permis avec l'aval de la BIRD et justifiés par l'utilisateur tout en
respectant le montant global alloué.




                                                    - 34 -

                                        COMPOSANTE PORTUAIRE

I - PRESENTATION DES OBJECTIFS

         Le secteur de transport maritime joue un rôle important dans le soutien le développement du
commerce extérieur de la Tunisie et apporte un développement considérable à la conjoncture
économique du pays.

         Cette importance indéniable, a poussé aux renforcements des efforts en vue d'améliorer les
performances du secteur et l'élaboration d'un programme de réforme et de mise à niveau intégrale du
secteur de transport en général et maritime en particulier.

         Les études entreprises dans le secteur ont servi à aborder tous les aspects liés aux différents
modes de transport et à définir les projets de réformes, de restructuration et d'investissement à mettre en
place pour la mise à niveau du secteur.

         C'est dans ce cadre que s'inscrit la mission d'assistance de la Banque Mondiale afin de
permettre la concrétisation des ces objectifs et la mise en oeuvre de la politique sectorielle des
transports.

         Cette mission d'assistance s'est matérialisée par l'accord d'un prêt 4357-TUN, consacré au
financement des investissements dans le secteur portuaire, cet prêt à été consacré pour le renforcement
de l'infrastructure portuaire par la réalisation des projets d'investissement prévus dans le 9 éme et le 10
éme Plan, et dont notamment :

- Réalisation d'un poste multivrac au port de Radès : Les aménagements du poste multivrac
comprennent :

    ·    la construction d'un nouveau poste multivrac ;
    ·    l'approfondissement a -12 m hydro des zones d'accès et de manoeuvres existantes.

         Après l'achèvement de ces travaux, le port disposerait d'un poste avec les caractéristiques
adaptées aux vraquiers jusqu'à 30.000 tpl et pourrait opérer des navires de plus grande taille avec des
gains substantiels sur les taux d'affrètement.

- Réhabilitation du quai de commerce au port de Bizerte : Il s'agit de remettre en état le quai de
commerce du port de Bizerte sur un linéaire de 550 ml.

         Ces travaux de confrontation offriraient à l'infrastructure une bonne pérennité aux ouvrages et
permettrait de faire face au trafic attendu qui engloberait le trafic additionnel de la zone franche.

- Réalisation de la digue au port de Gabès : La consistance des travaux se présente comme suit :

    ·    Travaux de réfection de la digue Nord ;
    ·    Prolongement de la digue Nord sur une longueur de 118 mètres ;
    ·    Extension du musoir de la digue Sud à l'aide d'une structure à berme ;
    ·    Aménagement d'une voie d'accès sur la digue Nord

         En plus des travaux, plusieurs études financées par le même prêt ont été
programmées dont notamment :




                                                     - 35 -

- Etude d'extension du poste à quai n°7 au port de Radès : cette étude consiste notamment dans
l'étude de la possibilité de réaliser l'extension du poste 7 et qui à pour objectif d'augmenter la capacité
du port de Radès afin de faire face au trafic sans cesse croissant des navires porte-conteneurs et
rouliers.

- Etude de réaménagement des quais spécialisés de la rive sud au port de Radès :
Cette étude doit déboucher sur la préparation des dossiers d'appel d'offre relatifs et au poste multivrac
KD. Elle a été confiée à un consultant dont la mission consisterait à effectuer des études spécifiques de
développement et d'ingénierie des détails relatifs aux variantes d'aménagement tenant compte des
critères et objectifs suivants :

     l   Le regroupement des activités de même genre
     l   La redistribution des trafics pour préserver la sécurité, la qualité de l'environnement et assurer la
         fluidité du trafic
     l   Le repositionnement de l'ouvrage de protection dans le but de créer une nouvelle infrastructure
         portuaire à l'extérieur.

- Etude de restructuration des tarifs de l'OMMP : cette étude à pour objectif la conception d'un
nouveau barème qui assure l'équilibre financier de l'OMMP avec une assiette évolutive et transparente
et répond aux mutations technologiques et réglementaires intervenus au niveau du secteur portuaire. Il
est a signalé que cette étude sera financée par les fonds propres de l'OMMP (note à la banque mondiale
du 30 Septembre 2004).

- Etude d'identification des sites de rejet des matériaux de dragage dans les ports de commerce :
Cette étude rentre dans le cadre des nouveaux projets d'investissement relatif aux opérations de
dragage d'entretien cyclique au niveau des bassins portuaires et des chenaux d'accès. Elle a pour
objectif l'identification du site de dépôt de ces matériaux dragués et l'évaluation de leur impact sur
l'environnement.

-Formation du personnel : il a été convenu, entre l'OMMP et la Banque Mondiale, de ne pas engager
cette action. En effet, le programme établi lors de la préparation du projet a été réalisé pour l'essentiel
sur financements propres de l'OMMP et fonds de l'Union Européenne ; ainsi, le personnel de l'OMMP a
participé à une série de séminaires sur les concessions. Les objectifs du projet en matière de formation
ont été atteints sans utiliser les fonds du prêt.

II - AVANCEMENT DU PROGRAMME DE REFORME DU SECTEUR PORTUAIRE

         Compte tenu des insuffisances dégagées et afin d'améliorer la compétitivité des prestations
portuaires et de donner une impulsion nouvelle au secteur dont l'efficacité conditionne directement le
commerce extérieur, il est proposé de :

     l   Mettre le travail portuaire sous régime de droit commun
     l   Supprimer le monopole de la STAM au port de Tunis-Goulctte-Radès et restructurer ou privatiser
         cette entreprise
     l   Inciter les opérateurs privés à investir en équipements portuaires
     l   Concéder les quais spécialisés et créer des plates-formes logistiques en dehors de l'enceinte
         portuaire.

1 - La réforme du régime du travail portuaire

Le régime de travail de la main-d'oeuvre dockers qui oblige l'emploi des dockers pour tous les navires
amarrés aux postes à quai y compris les vraquiers, a généré l'emploi d'équipes pléthoriques et un
bicéphalisme au niveau de la gestion de ce corps entre l'autorité portuaire et les entrepreneurs de
manutention et a instauré des pratiques abusives (embauche simultanée, indemnités compensatoires




                                                     - 36 -

versées par les opérateurs de vracs pour être dispensés de l'obligation d'embaucher,...).

Le nouveau code des ports maritimes promulgué le 18 Mars 1999 a abrogé le décret beylical du 17
Février 1949 portant organisation du travail de la main d'oeuvre dockers dans les ports et a instauré le
régime de travail de droit commun des ouvriers portuaires sans l'autorité de l'entrepreneur de
manutention, leur employeur direct.

Pour être conforme à cette nouvelle loi, qui dans son article 3 a mis fin à la corporation dockers, le
principe de l'indemnisation totale des dockers avec possibilité de reprise de certains par les entreprises
de manutention a été retenu L'avantage de la formule retenue est de résoudre radicalement tous les
problème liés à la corporation des dockers.       La possibilité de reprise des dockers permettrait aux
entreprises clé manutention de recruter selon leur besoin les dockers spécialisés.

Concernant la restructuration et l'assainissement social et en application des termes de la convention
signée le 4 janvier 2003, 666 dockers ont été mis à la retraite avec indemnisation sur un total de 751
dockers, soit 88%. Cette opération a un coût global de 16,6 millions de Dinars.

Par ailleurs, 93 dockers ayant moins de 50 ans seront intégrés dans des nouveaux groupements crées et
dans la STAM.

2 - Suppression du monopole de la STAM :

        Dans le port de Radès :

La libre concurrence au port de Tunis-Goulette-Radès a été instaurée par la loi n°69-97 du 27 octobre
1997 supprimant le monopole de la STAM .

Dans ce cadre, il a été proposé le maintien, dans le cadre d'un contrat de concession de la STAM
(Décret n° 2367 du 4 octobre 2004 et dont l'entrée en vigueur a été prévu pour le 1er janvier 2005)
comme exploitant de tout ou partie des installations existantes du port de Radès, et l'introduction d'un
opérateur privé dans l'autre partie du port, essentiellement le terminal à conteneur à construire sous un
régime BOT.

Le projet de concession du terminal à conteneurs, doit se traduire par introduction de la concurrence au
port de Rades. Cette concession accorderait, comme il est d'usage, à l'opérateur choisi par appel à la
concurrence, une exploitation du nouveau terminal dans des conditions définies dans un cahier des
charges. il disposerait d'un monopole de fait à l'intérieur du nouveau terminal qu'il aura aménagé et
équipé mais la concurrence s'exercera entre le nouveau terminal et les autres postes exploités par la
STAM.

La réalisation de ce projet se fera de façon à assurer que la concurrence entre la STAM et l'exploitant du
terminal à conteneurs soit saine et équitable.

Cette concurrence entre terminaux offrira aux usagers du port une réelle possibilité de choix
technologique qui exercera alors une pression sur les opérateurs en place et aura nécessairement un
impact sur l'amélioration de la qualité des prestations et la compétitivité des services offerts.

        Dans les ports de l'intérieur

Dans les ports de l'intérieur, l'exploitation des terre-pleins sera attribuée aux entrepreneurs de
manutention (E.M) dans le cadre d'une concession, après réorganisation de leur intervention dans les
ports en deux entreprises dans chaque port : la STAM d'une part, et un groupement des E.M privés
inscrits dans chaque port et représentant la concurrence d'autre part conformément au conseil
interministériel en date du 15 janvier 2004.

Dans ce cadre et après une série de réunions, ont été crées : quatre (04) groupements des entrepreneurs



                                                    - 37 -

de manutention au port de Sousse, Sfax, Gabès et Zarzis. Le démarrage de l'activité de ces sociétés est
prévu pour le début 2006. Ce regroupement favorise l'instauration d'une structure concurrentielle dans
les ports (STAM/groupement privé d'acconiers).

3 - L'investissement en équipements par les entrepreneurs de manutention

Dans le cadre de sa politique de recentrage sur son rôle d'autorité portuaire, l'OMMP se désengage des
différentes activités à caractère commercial. Il ne doit plus s'engager dans de nouveaux investissements
en équipements.

Ce serait aux entrepreneurs privés de manutention à prendre en charge les investissements en
équipements qui constituent leur outil de travail au même titre que les équipements de parcs.

4 - La concession de quais spécialisés et la création de plates-formes logistiques

Certains quais spécialisés existent depuis plusieurs années et sont généralement construits en dehors
des ports de commerce proprement dits : quai cimentier, quai pétrolier à Bizerte et à Sfax, quai Tunisie
Acier à Bizerte. La manutention dans ces quais spécialisés se fait par les opérateurs eux mêmes sans
recourir à la main d'oeuvre dockers et en finançant la totalité des équipements.

Dans le nouveau contexte du code des ports et dans le but de donner aux usagers opérateurs et à
l'autorité portuaire une certaine flexibilité dans la gestion, cette dernière sera autorisée à spécialiser
certains quais intégrés dans les ports de commerce.

Cette spécialisation qui se fera sous un régime de concession, donnera à l'opérateur la garantie
nécessaire pour lui permettre d'investir dans la manutention de ses produits, d'avoir l'accès prioritaire
pour les navires devant charger ou décharger ses produits et surtout d'opérer par lui-même sans aucun
intermédiaire.

Cette spécialisation permettra aussi la modernisation par les opérateurs exploitants des quais des
moyens de chargement ou de déchargement ce qui aura un impact certain sur le taux de fret à la tonne
et ce du fait que l'escale du navire sera automatiquement raccourcie d'où une économie supplémentaire
sur le coût de passage des produits.

Par ailleurs, et afin de résoudre le problème de l'exiguïté des surfaces d'entreposage dans les ports
(notamment à Rades) et leur congestion, des plates-formes logistiques devront être envisagées à
proximité du port existant. C'est pourquoi le dernier Conseil Ministériel Restreint du 07 octobre 2005, a
donné l'autorisation à l'OMMP pour la concession de la Zone Logistique de 50 hectares au port de Radès
et dont le cahier des charges est en cours de préparation.

5 - l'avancement des concessions :

1- Les concessions accordées :

Au port de Radès :

    l    Concession accordée à la Société Tunisienne d'Acconnage et de Manutention (STAM)
         approuvée par décret n° 2367 du 04 octobre 2004 l'entrée en vigueur et depuis le 1er janvier
         2005
    l    Concessions accordées à l'Office des Céréales approuvées par le décret du 04 octobre 2004
         l'entrée en vigueur et depuis le 1er janvier 2005.

Au port de Bizerte

    l    Concession du chantier SOCOMENA accordée à la CMR, approbation du contrat le 17 juin
         2004.


                                                    - 38 -

Au port de Zarzis

     l   Concession pour la société d'électricité « El Biben » approuvée par décret n° 3064 du 25
         novembre 2002.

2 - Les concessions en instance (avec une négociation avancée) :

Au port de Skhira

     l   Concession pour la TRAPSA

Au port de Zarzis

     l   Concession pour la ICC à Zarzis
     l   Concession pour la Zone Franche de Zarzis

3 - Les concessions encours de négociation :

     l   les concessions pour les entrepreneurs de manutention dans les ports de l'intérieur

Au port de Bizerte

     l   les concessions pour la cimenterie de Bizerte, la STIR, Tunis Acier.

Au port de Sfax

     l   les concessions pour la compagnie de phosphate de Gafsa et le groupe chimique.

Au port de Gabès

     l   les concessions pour le groupe chimique au port de Gabès

Les concessions encours de préparation

     l   la concession du service de remorquage
     l   la concession du nouveau terminal à conteneurs et remorques au port de Radès.
     l   la concession d'un terminal pour navires croisiéristes au port de la Goulette.

III- EVALUATION DE LA RENTABILITE DES PROJETS FINANCES PAR LA BANQUE MONDIALE.

1- Remise en état du quai de commerce du port de Bizerte

         Il s'agit de remettre en état le quai de commerce du port de Bizerte sur un linéaire de 550 ml.
Ouvrage portuaire vétuste et présentant des dégâts à sa superstructure (dégradation de la poutre de
couronnement, présence de cavités, déformations de la magistrale de quai, etc...)

         Ces travaux de confrontation offriraient à l'infrastructure une bonne pérennité aux ouvrages et
permettrait de faire face au trafic attendu qui engloberait le trafic additionnel de la zone franche. En
effet, le quai de commerce se détériore rapidement et si le quai s'écoulerait, il n'aurait plus qu'un seul
poste à quai disponible et le trafic vers et en provenance de la zone de Bizerte (75% au total) serait alors
détourné sur Radès par route ou par chemin de fer.

         La faisabilité économique des quais construits ne serait pas affectée par la construction d'un
nouveau pont.




                                                    - 39 -

         La réalisation de ce projet permettra d'accueillir des navires d'un tonnage plus important avec
des tirant d'eau allant de -9 m dans une première phase et à -11 m dans une deuxième phase. Ainsi le
taux de fret à la tonne pour les opérateurs tunisiens diminuerait et on aura une rentabilité à l'échelle
macro-économique plus importante. En outre, le quai construit permettrait de récupérer le trafic unitisé à
destination de Bizerte et sa zone.

         L'objectif initial de ce projet est d'éviter la construction d'un nouveau quai au niveau de la zone
franche qui coûterait plus de 70 millions de Dinars.

         La non réalisation de ce projet est de nature à accentuer la dégradation des ouvrages et
augmenter considérablement le coût de leur remise en état et par conséquent la déviation du trafic du
port de Bizerte vers d'autres ports.

Résultat de l'évaluation de la rentabilité économique

         D'après les prévisions du trafic, et les indicateurs de gestion, on estime à 19,8% le taux de
rentabilité économique de ce projet.

2 - Projet de réalisation d'un poste multivrac au port de Radès en remplacement du poste
pétrolier

         Les études destinées à définir les solutions à retenir pour l'aménagement des quais spécialisés
du complexe portuaire Tunis-Goulette-Radès a permis de mettre en évidence que le poste pétrolier
actuel présente des risques de pollution aux hydrocarbures pendant les manoeuvres des tankers. La
séparation des trafics hydrocarbures et ceux GPL et des produits chimiques est devenue une nécessité à
court terme.

         A moyen terme et pour faire face au trafic sans cesse croissant des hydrocarbures (fuel-oil,
gas-oil, kérosène) et des autres produits pétroliers et chimiques liquides (GPL, Bitume, Soude etc...),
l'OMMP doit inévitablement programmer la construction d'un deuxième poste pétrolier et chimique.

         Les deux nouveaux postes devront être réalisés à l'extérieur du port pour des raisons de sécurité
dans la zone. Cette solution nécessitera le déplacement de la digue Ouest du port de la Goulette.

         Une étude plus développée en matière de protection du port, de manoeuvrabilité des navires et
d'autres études détaillées ainsi que la réalisation des deux postes sus-cités ne peuvent s'intégrer dans
les détails d'utilisation de ce crédit.

         Il est proposé donc l'utilisation de l'enveloppe allouée initialement au poste pétrolier pour
financer le réaménagement d'un poste multivrac à l'emplacement du poste actuel CPG à Radès.

         Ce poste multivrac doit charger ou décharger différents produits solides en vrac (minerais,
aliments du bétail, produits chimiques, etc.), ce qui nécessite un quai continu à - 13,0 m hydro avec
terre-pleins arrière. Le poste doit être équipé d'un portique fixe de manutention sur rails .et/ou d'une grue
mobile godets.

         Le quai peut être conçu avec des caissons circulaires jointifs en béton armé de diamètre 10 m.

         Les aménagements du poste multivrac comprennent :

    l    la construction d'un nouveau poste multivrac pour minéraliers de 40.000 tpl au droit du poste
         "KD" existant, avec quai continu de 180 m de longueur, portique de manutention sur rails,
         dragage de la souille à -12 m hydro et terre-pleins arrière de stockage dans les anciennes zones
         CPG et marchandises dangereuses,
    l    l'approfondissement a -12 m hydro des zones d'accès et de manoeuvres existantes et nouvelles



                                                       - 40 -

         jusqu'au poste céréalier et au poste pétrolier, avec un cercle d'évitage de 450 m.

         L'avantage principal de disposer de ce poste avec les caractéristiques adaptées aux vraquiers
jusqu'à 30.000 tpl est de pouvoir opérer des navires de plus grande taille avec des gains substantiels sur
les taux d'affrètement, y compris sur les plus petits navires qui continueront à assurer en particulier le
trafic en "petits lots" d'exportation de minerais.

         L'avantage comparatif sur le fret se calcule par comparaison des taux moyens journaliers
d'affrètement des navires (ramenés à la tonne transportée) et pour un temps total moyen de 7 jours (5
jours de voyage plus 2 jours au port).

         Une deuxième catégorie d'avantages correspond à la suppression des attentes des vraquiers de
la situation de référence (poste KD actuel)

         Le nouveau poste "KD" accueillant également des trafics transférés de La Goulette, un
supplément de 30 à 60 % d'avantages liés à ces trafics sont estimés comme devant s'ajouter à
l'avantage de base sur les attentes des navires vraquiers de la situation de référence.

         L'avantage économique découlant de la suppression des temps d'attente des petits navires (et
une partie des moyens) sera valorisé sur la base d'un coût moyen de 6 000 US $ soit 6 600 DT/j.

         L'amélioration des rendements de manutention du nouveau poste "KD" induira également une
baisse des temps de séjour pour les navires de la situation de référence.

         A partir d'une hypothèse moyenne de trafic pour ce poste (410.000 t en 2010 et 590.000 t à long
terme), la valeur actualisée nette (au taux de 8%) s'établit à 5,1 MDT et le taux de rentabilité interne
atteindrait 14,05%.

         L'étude de sensibilité de la rentabilité économique qui couvre une hypothèse basse et hausse du
trafic débouche sur un TRI minimal de 11,87% et un TRI maximal de 16,58%.

         Le tableau suivant, indique la sensibilité du TRI :

3 - Protection du port de Gabès

La consistance des travaux se présente comme suit :

     1. Travaux de réfection de la digue Nord sur les derniers 400 mètres par le colmatage des cavités
         à l'aide des sacs en béton et le renforcement de la protection extérieure de la digue à l'aide
         d'une risberme en enrochements ; 2) Prolongement de la digue Nord sur une longueur de 118
         mètres avec une structure à berme ;
     2. Extension du musoir de la digue Sud à l'aide d'une structure à berme ;
     3. Aménagement d'une voie d'accès sur la digue Nord

Les avantages escomptés de ce projet peuvent être résumés en :

Bénéfices du projet en termes d'investissement différé évité :

         Sans le Projet, l'OMMP estime que la digue pourrait encore résister 5 ans. Les dégâts
enregistrés durant ces cinq années augmenteraient le coût des travaux de confortement de la digue
existante. L'OMMP estime que ce coût serait double de celui de la solution de projet. Le gain en
investissement serait alors de 6 millions de DT.

Différentielle des coûts d'entretien de la digue existante : bénéfices escomptés

         Les coûts d'entretien annuel augmentent avec la dégradation et le vieillissement d'une digue.



                                                     - 41 -

Les bénéfices ne seront évalués que sur la partie confortée de la digue (les bénéfices de l'allongement
s'évaluent en termes d'attentes de navire moindres). On estime que la digue confortée coûtera chaque
année 0,5% de l'investissement de 2006 à 2008, 0.75% de 2009 à 2011, 1% par an de 2012 à 2014. Un
entretien périodique de la digue confortée aura lieu en 2015, coûtant 8% de l'investissement. Dans la
solution sans Projet, l'entretien annuel coûterait 1% du coût de l'investissement du Projet jusqu'à 2008 et
2009 où l'investissement différé de confortement serait réalisé. En 2011, le coût d'entretien serait de
0,5% de l'investissement du Projet (3 millions de DT) et la progression suivrait le même schéma que
celui qui a été défini dans la solution de Projet.

Valorisation des gains d'attente de navire par heure

         Les statistiques de la période 1997-2001 situent à environ 5.800 tjb la moyenne de taille des
navires du groupe de référence pour la desserte des quais 6 à 9, ou encore à environ 9.000 tpl. Les
coûts d'immobilisation par jour de tels navires sont estimés à 7,000 US$, équivalant à 9.500 DT (soit 375
DT par heure d'attente). Une tendance lente à l'augmentation de la taille des navires est manifeste,
quoique inversée en 2001. Le manque de bases solides pour prévoir l'évolution du coût par heure des
navires conduit à conserver ce taux de 375 DT sur l'ensemble de la période.

Impact du projet sur les attentes en rade et bénéfices escomptés

         Les attentes pour cause de grosse mer ont régulièrement augmenté, de 733 heures en 1997 à
2.157 heures en 2001. Les parts de cette cause d'attente dans le total des attentes étaient
respectivement de 9 et 11% pour 1997 et 2001. L'augmentation de cette part n'est pas très significative.
Par contre, la progression de près de 200% des heures d'attente l'est davantage, même si elle étonne un
peu et suggère l'éventualité d'erreurs statistiques. On tablera sur une progression des attentes fonction
de l'augmentation annuelle du trafic de navires, avec un léger effet d'accélération causé par l'incidence
de cumul possible avec des attentes causées par la non-disponibilité de postes. On est fondé à intégrer
un effet d'accélération des attentes pour mauvais temps par la croissance des attentes pour
indisponibilité de postes à quai, croissance qui est fonction de celle du taux d'occupation des postes.

Impact du projet sur les attentes de poste et bénéfices escomptés

         Les opérations aux quais 6 à 9 sont parfois interrompues à cause du mauvais temps et de
l'agitation du plan d'eau aux abords des quais. L'allongement de la digue les protégera de façon plus
efficace et permettra d'assurer des opérations sans interruption. Les bénéfices de cette nature que le
projet dégage doivent être mesurés. L'approche suivie est de comparer les taux d'occupation productive
des postes avec et sans agitation.

Résultat de l'évaluation économique

         On estime à 5 millions de DT la valeur actualisée nette du projet (au taux d'actualisation de
10%) et à 23,7% le taux de rentabilité économique.

4 - Révision du barème des tarifs et redevances portuaires

Les objectifs de l'étude gravitent autour des principaux axes suivants :

     1. Moderniser l'outil tarifaire de l'OMMP restant inchangé depuis 1987 à part quelques
         modifications concernant le séjour des conteneurs
     2. Définir un système tarifaire pouvant jouer un rôle de régulation des tarifs de l'OMMP et de ceux
         des divers prestataires de services
     3. Examiner l'opportunité de prévoir une tarification souple, révisable annuellement et indexée sur
         l'évolution des composantes de coût des services offerts
     4. Dégager suffisamment de recettes pour faire face aux investissements futurs
     5. Faire jouer la concurrence pour l'attribution de terrains ou locaux relevant du domaine public
         portuaire sous les divers régimes offerts par le code des ports : occupation temporaire,



                                                    - 42 -

         concession
     6. Instaurer la notion de tarif par port, tarifs incitatifs, répartition du trafic, spécialisation des ports
     7. Introduire les tarifs couvrant la sécurité (VTS, lutte contre l'incendie, lutte contre la pollution,
         télésurveillance, ...).

Consistance de l'étude :

     1. Diagnostic opérationnel et financier de la situation actuelle
     2. Bases de la tarification future
     3. Propositions du barème de tarification

         Cette étude dont le financement a été initialement programmé dans le cadre du projet sectoriel
financé par le crédit 4357-TUN, sera financé par les fonds propres de l'OMMP et ce après que la premier
appel d'offres été déclaré infructueux suite aux difficultés rencontrés pour finaliser le contrat avec le
groupement CATRAM/SOGREAH . Dans ce cadre, l'OMMP à demandé dans son courrier du 30
Septembre 2004 à la Banque Mondiale, de renoncer au financement par celle-ci pour réaliser cette
étude avec ses fonds propres. L'entrée en vigueur du nouveau du nouveau barème est prévue pour
2006.

         Par ailleurs, le barème des droits et redevances portuaires de 1987, a connu plusieurs
changements au cours des dernières années. En effet, il a été révisé à plusieurs reprise, afin de
l'adapter au développement et mutation qu'a connu le secteur portuaires et qui sont notamment :

     1. Arrêté des ministres des finances et du transport du 25 juin 2002, portant fixation des
         redevances portuaires perçues par l'Office de la Marine                 Marchande et des Ports des usagers
         des ports maritimes de commerce en contre partie du séjour des voitures et des conteneurs et
         de l'embarquement, du débarquement et du transbordement des conteneurs
     2. Arrêté des ministres du transport et de commerce du 12 mars 2002, modifiant et complétant le
         barème des tarifs maxima de la manutention portuaire
     3. Arrêté des ministres du transport et de commerce du 9 mars 1999, portant homologation des
         tarifs maxima des prestations du consignataire de navires.

                                        LA GESTION SECTORIELLE

         Cette composante est conçue pour promouvoir des services de transport meilleurs visant à
faciliter la modernisation et la rationalisation de la gestion du secteur du transport afin de guider les
décisions des responsables et d'aider à identifier les dysfonctionnements du marché par l'amélioration de
la qualité des statistiques de transport et par la mise en place de systèmes de gestion performants à
l'exécution d'études techniques et économiques et d'actions de mise à niveau du secteur.

         Il s'agit de grands projets menés par le Ministère des Transports dont l'impact porterait sur le
secteur dans sa globalité. En effet Ceci a pu être réalisé par : l'élaboration d'un plan directeur national
des transports, l'étude des réseaux de transport, la mise en oeuvre d'une base de données statistiques
sectorielles, l'acquisitions de matériels informatiques et la formation de cadres du Ministère.

         Cette composante, qui a bénéficié du prêt 4358 ­ TUN, a connu une exécution satisfaisante de
différents projets, néanmoins un certain retard est constaté au niveau de la réalisation des études .

I - Evaluation physique des différentes composantes de la gestion sectorielle : (voir annexe 1 )

A - Les études

ETUDE DE PLAN DIRECTEUR NATIONAL DE TRANSPORT :

         Cette étude a permis de fournir une proposition optimale de mise à jour de la stratégie de




                                                       - 43 -

développement à moyen et long terme pour le transport, suivie d'un plan d'actions sur la période du
Dixième Plan (2002-2006) permettant de mettre en oeuvre la dite stratégie et identifiant d'une manière
précise et justifiée les investissements prioritaires.

         Elle a permis de projeter une situation d'évolution tendancielle de la demande aux horizons
2006-2020 et de définir le scénario de réponse de l'offre en infrastructure à cette demande dans des
conditions satisfaisante en matière de fluidité de trafic. Cette étude montre qu'il est possible d'envisager
d'autres scénarios de développement dans le cadre d'une politique visant la rationalisation de l'utilisation
des moyens de transport et l'optimisation des dessertes des principales villes et des équipements
structurants actuels et projetés. Cette étude a été terminée le 23 avril 2004, une satisfaction totale
concernant cette étude .

ETUDE DES RESEAUX DE TRANSPORT :

         Dans le but d'harmoniser le développement urbain dans l'agglomération tunisoise avec celui du
système des transports aux horizons 2016 , le Ministère du Transport a lancé une étude du plan directeur
de transport ( PDRT ) du Grand Tunis.

         Les résultats de cette étude ont préconisé la mise en place d'un système de transport collectif
devant répondre à la demande de déplacements générés par les axes d'urbanisation futurs confirmés
pour le long terme par le schéma directeur d'aménagement du Grand Tunis.

         Il s'agit d'un ensemble d'études techniques détaillées relatives aux projets de transport
préconisés dans le cadre du PDRT (RFR, métro, pôles d'échanges et bus).

Cette étude a pour objet :

    1. De définir les conditions d'exploitation de ce nouveau mode de transport et déterminer ses
         caractéristiques techniques
    2. D'établir les études et les dossiers d'appel d'offres nécessaire à la réalisation du projet dont
         notamment le tracé des lignes du RFR et les aménagements qu'ils nécessitent
    3. D'étudier la faisabilité technique des lignes-métro proposées dans le cadre du PDRT (lignes
         Ennasr, El Ghazala, Berges du lac nord et sud et la deuxième desserte centrale)
    4. D'élaborer les études d'avant projet détaillé et de préparer les dossiers d'appel d'offre des lignes
         à réaliser au cours du Xème et XIème plan de développement
    5. De réserver l'emprise des lignes à réaliser au delà du XIème plan de développement (Berges du
         lac nord et sud)
    6. D'étudier l'impact de ces extensions sur l'environnement
    7. Les pôles d'échange nécessaires, qui, en plus de ceux de l'hyper centre, devront assurer la
         cohérence et la continuité du service des TC, les rabattements multimodes (Bus-RFR
         Métro-Bus, VP-RFR-Bus-Métro...)

         Cette étude sera prolongée pour la deuxième phase, on est dans la phase d'approbation de tous
les rapports d'APS.

BASE DE DONNEES :

         Cette étude a permis de mettre en place un système d'information sur les transports en Tunisie,
et d'évoluer progressivement vers un système décisionnel qui permettra en particulier :

    1. L'apport d'une aide significative à la décision dans les processus de programmation à court,
         moyen et long terme, basée sur une analyse préalable du marché et des moyens à engager.
    2. Le suivi du marché et de la conjoncture pour le secteur.
    3. La confection d'éléments et de paramètres économiques nécessaires à l'élaboration et le suivi
         du plan, des contrats-programmes et des budgets prévisionnels d'investissement.




                                                     - 44 -

        Cette étude est dans sa phase finale, phase de la mise en place.

B - Equipement et formation

EQUIPEMENTS NECESSAIRES

        L'objectif de l'acquisition du matériel est de mettre à niveau le système informatique au sein du
département à fin d'accélérer les procédures de circulation de l'information entre les diverses structures
du ministère, ainsi que la généralisation de l'exploitation de la Base de Données sur toutes les directions
du ministère.

        En effet, le ministère a opté pour l'acquisition des matériels informatiques et logiciels
nécessaires pour la mise en place et le détournement de la base.

FORMATIONS DU PERSONNEL DU MINISTERE :

        Une meilleure gestion du secteur nécessite une bonne formation des personnels en place. Le
champ étendu des tâches assignées aux cadres est un obstacle supplémentaire à 1"approfondissement
des connaissances et à l'acquisition d'une réelle expertise dans un domaine spécifique.

        Le projet vise à renforcer la gestion des ressources humaines dans le secteur public et à
développer les compétences requises par l'exercice efficace des principales responsabilités.

        En effet 16 cadres du ministère ont assisté à une formation qui a intercepté les deux sujets
suivants :

     l  Economie des Transports,
     l  Régulation et Partenariats Public-Privé dans le Secteur des Transports.

II - Réalisation financière

        Globalement, le coût global de cette composante va dépasser le coût prévu par la BIRD qui est
de 4.250.000 euros, il est à remarquer que :

     l  Une partie de financement de l'étude réseaux sera financée par la deuxième tranche du projet
        (prêt 7051 ­TUN )
     l  Une réallocation du prêt a été opérée pour la gestion sectorielle et spécialement pour la
        catégorie fourniture afin de permettre au ministère d'acquérir des matériels informatiques
        nécessaires pour la mise à niveau de son système informatique.


                     PROGRAMME D'ACTION NATIONAL POUR LA PROMOTION
                           DE L'UTILISATION DES CARBURANTS PROPRES
                                                       ET
                             LA SURVEILLANCE DE LA QUALITE DE L'AIR
                                     DANS LES VILLES TUNISIENNES

Démarche

        Dans le cadre de l'étude sur les problèmes futurs de l'environnement liés à l'utilisation des
carburants en Tunisie, l'Agence Nationale pour la Maîtrise de l'Energie a mis en place un programme
national destiné à promouvoir l'utilisation des carburants propres et à développer un réseau de
surveillance de la qualité de l'air dans les villes tunisiennes conformément aux engagements pris avec la
banque mondiale dans le cadre du projet sectoriel des transports.




                                                      - 45 -

         A cet effet, une commission nationale a été mise en place regroupant les différents
départements concernés par ce programme. Cette commission regroupe les représentants des
départements suivants :

     ·   Le Ministère Chargé de l'Environnement
     ·   Le Ministère Chargé des transports
     ·   Le Ministère Chargé de l'industrie
     ·   Le Ministère Chargé des Finances
     ·   Le Ministère Chargé du Commerce

         Cette commission avait pour tâche de mettre en oeuvre un programme d'action sur la base du
rapport technique réalisé dans le cadre d'un financement de la Banque Mondiale qui sera complété par
d'autres actions programmées par les différents départements concernés et qui n'ont pas été abordées
par ledit rapport.

         Une journée nationale de concertation a été organisée en Avril 2000 pendant laquelle a été
présentée et discutée le projet de programme à un groupe plus élargi (Chambres syndicales, ONG,
administrations...).Les commentaires et les propositions ont été prises en considération lors de
l'élaboration de la version finale de ce programme.

Etat d'avancement du programme

         Le programme de promotion des carburants propres et la surveillance de la qualité de l'air en
Tunisie a regroupé toutes les activités et les filières dans le secteur des transports qui pourraient
contribuer à la réduction des émissions des gaz polluants dans l'atmosphère. Il est composé de trois
principales actions :

Les actions préventives : ces actions concernes toutes les activités institutionnelles et sectorielles
permettant d'améliorer l'efficacité énergétique et promouvoir l'utilisation rationnelle de l'énergie dans le
secteur des transports.

Les actions de promotion des carburants propres : ces actions visent à mettre en place un
programme de réduction du taux de soufre dans le gazole et la quantité de plomb dans les essences, et
la promotion des carburants alternatifs et écologiques.

Les actions de surveillance de la qualité de l'air : ces actions visent à mettre en places un
programme de développement du réseau de surveillance de la qualité de l'air dans les villes tunisiennes.

La synthèse de l'état d'avancement de ces actions est décrite ci-dessous :

Actions préventives

Actions institutionnelles

Les textes réglementaires :

     1. Publication de la loi n°2004-72 du 2 août 2004, relative à la maîtrise de l'énergie
     2. Publication du décret n°2004-2144 du 2 septembre 2004, fixant les conditions d'assujettissement
         des établissements consommateurs d'énergie à l'audit énergétique obligatoire et périodique, le
         contenu et la périodicité de l'audit et les catégories de projets consommateurs d'énergie
         assujettis à la consultation obligatoire préalable, les modalités de sa réalisation ainsi que les
         conditions d'exercice de l'activité desexperts-auditeurs
     3. Publication de la loi n°2005-82 du 15 août 2005 portant création d'un système de maîtrise de



                                                   - 46 -

        l'énergie
    4. Publication du décret n°2005-2234 du 22 août 2005 fixant les taux et les montants des primes
        relatives aux actions concernées par le système de maîtrise de l'énergie.

Les mesures :

    l   Réduction du seuil d'assujettissement à l'audit énergétique obligatoire et périodique des sociétés
        de transport de 1000 Tep à 500 Tep afin de couvrir un nombre plus important de sociétés
    l   Augmentation du plafond de l'aide à l'audit de 10.000 DT à 20.000 DT
    l   Augmentation de l'aide à l'investissement de 5% à 20% du coût d'investissement avec un
        plafond qui varie entre 100.000 DT et 250.000 DT suivant la consommation de l'entreprise
    l   Obligation de soumettre les nouveaux projets et les projets d'extension des établissements
        consommateurs d'énergie à la consultation préalables à l'Agence Nationale pour la Maîtrise de
        l'Energie.

Actions spécifiques

Promotion de l'utilisation des bancs de diagnostic moteur

    1. Equipement des ateliers des ministères, des établissements et des entreprises publiques
        disposant d'un grand parc de véhicules par des équipements de diagnostic moteur
    2. Elaboration d'un programme de formation des opérateurs (chefs de parc, chauffeurs, techniciens
        de maintenance) en collaboration avec l'Agence Tunisienne de Formation Professionnelle.
    3. Réalisation des campagnes de sensibilisation sur l'impact de l'utilisation des bancs de diagnostic
        des moteurs, la réduction de la consommation de carburants et les émissions des gaz polluants
        à l'échappement auprès des ateliers des Ministères, entreprises et établissements publics.
    4. Réalisation des campagnes de sensibilisation « grand public » sur l'impact de l'utilisation des
        bancs de diagnostic des moteurs (avril-mai-juin-juillet 2004) dans 10 gouvernorats.
    5. Obligation de soumettre les automobiles, à l'occasion de la visite technique périodique, à un
        diagnostique de leurs moteurs dans le but de la maîtrise de la consommation de carburant.
    6. Elaboration en cours du cahier des charges fixant les conditions de l'exercice de l'activité de
        diagnostic moteur (Technicien, équipements, opération)         par une commission technique qui
        siège au Ministère du Transport.
    7. Subvention de l'acquisition des équipements de diagnostic moteur par 20% du coût de
        l'investissement avec un plafond de 6.000 DT.

Introduction des notions d'économie d'énergie au niveau de l'apprentissage
de la conduite et de l'examen du permis de conduire

    1. Introduction effective des questions relatives à l'économie d'énergie au niveau de l'examen du
        permis de conduire le 15 avril 2002.
    2. Généralisation de la formation sur la conduite rationnelle et l'entretien préventif à tous les
        examinateurs du Ministère chargé des Transports, édition du guide pédagogique et réalisation
        d'un séminaire d'information.
    3. Introduction des notions de la conduite rationnelle et de l'entretien préventif au niveau de la
        formation des nouveaux examinateurs du ministère de transport.

Etude du plan directeur du transport dans les grandes villes tunisiennes :

Actualisation du plan directeur de transport dans le Grand Tunis :

    1. Finalisation de l'étude d'intégration physique et tarifaire des transports collectifs dans le Grand
        Tunis et présentation des résultats lors d'un séminaire d'information organisé en mois d'octobre
        2004.

Plan de déplacements urbains de la ville de Sousse :



                                                   - 47 -

    1. Signature du protocole d'accord avec les différents partenaires (Municipalité de Sousse, ANME,
    AECI et EMBTRSH).
    2. Formation des techniciens tunisiens
    3. Inventaire et diagnostic de la situation actuelle de la mobilité (en cours).
    4. Choix du bureau d'études local et démarrage des enquêtes de déplacements (O/D, rotation,
    stationnement, ...).

Amélioration de la productivité des véhicules de transport routier de marchandises par la réduction des
retours à vide :

    1. Finalisation de l'étude et élaboration d'un cahier des charges pour l'exploitation des centrales
        des frets
    2. Recherche du financement en cours pour la mise en place des centrales des frets physiques
    3. Mise en place d'une centrale de frets informatique (centre d'appel et site web) dans le cadre d'un
        projet de démonstration et réalisation des journées de sensibilisation et de concertation avec les
        principaux intervenants dans le secteur de transport de marchandises.

Actions de promotion des carburants propres

Essence à basse teneur plomb

    1. Adoption de la norme NT 46.04 relative à la réduction de la teneur en plomb dans l'essence
        super à 0,4 g/l.

La structure de la consommation des essences a connue une variation très importante pendant les six
dernières années. Cette variation est due essentiellement à la croissance importante de la
consommation de l'essence sans plomb et la tendance de supprimer l'essence normale.

Gasoil à basse teneur en soufre

    1. Adoption de la norme NT 49.04 relative à la fixation de la teneur en soufre dans le gazole à
        0,035 %.

GPL carburant

    1. Publication des textes réglementaires fixant les règles techniques d'équipement et
        d'aménagement des véhicules à moteur fonctionnant au GPL (Décret N° 2016 du 04/11/2002).

Gaz Naturel Carburant

    1. Publication des textes réglementaires fixant les règles techniques d'équipement et
        d'aménagement des véhicules à moteur fonctionnant au gaz naturel (Décret N° 2017 du
        04/11/2002)
    2. Mise en place d'une station de compression du gaz naturel au sein de la direction gaz de la
        STEG (180 m3/h)
    3. Réalisation d'une première opération pilote dans le parc de la Société Nationale de Transport
        (SNT) (expérimentation d'un bus fonctionnant au gaz naturel pendant 4 mois)
    4. Acquisition prévue de deux bus fonctionnant au gaz naturel ainsi que la formation des
        responsables de la réception des véhicules du ministère du transport dans le cadre de la
        coopération bilatérale italienne
    5. Introduction de la substitution de l'énergie dans l'activité de maîtrise de l'énergie.




                                                   - 48 -

Actions de surveillance de la qualité de l'air en Tunisie

   1. Installation de six stations fixes de contrôle de la qualité de l'air au grand Tunis (Bab Sâadoun,
      Place Pasteur, Ben Arous, Radès, Morouj, Nahli)
   2. Installation de deux stations fixes de contrôle de la qualité de l'air à Sfax et Bizerte
   3. Installation de deux stations fixes de contrôle de la qualité de l'air à Sfax et Sousse
   4. Elaboration du cahier des charges relatif à l'installation de deux stations fixes de contrôle de la
      qualité de l'air à Gabès et Gafsa
   5. Raccordement de la station de Britsh Gas au RNSQA
   6. Raccordement des deux stations du ministère de la santé publique au RNSQA
   7. Programmation de l'installation de trois stations fixes dans le cadre du projet «Gestion de
      l'environnement industriel et urbain en Tunisie» financé par la Coopération Française
      (démarrage prévu en 2006).




                                                 - 49 -

- 50 -

