Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4358-TUN
Project Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISIENS
Dated June 29, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4358-TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER 
TUNISIENS (SNCFT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Tunisia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount equal to two hundred twenty-two million five hundred thousand French Francs 
(FRF222,500,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that SNCFT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to SNCFT on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Loan Agreement to assist SNCFT to carry out Part B of the Project; and
WHEREAS SNCFT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement, and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “SNCFT 
Page  2
Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators set forth in a letter 
of even date herewith to be utilized by SNCFT under Part B of the Project to measure 
the progress in the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the degree to which the 
objectives thereof are being achieved.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SNCFT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, commercial, economic, engineering, environmental, 
financial, management, railways, technical and transport practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SNCFT shall otherwise agree, SNCFT shall carry out Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SNCFT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SNCFT shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and SNCFT, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SNCFT on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. (a) SNCFT shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan and the Allocation.
(b)
SNCFT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan and the Allocation, or the performance by SNCFT of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SNCFT
Section 3.01. SNCFT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, commercial, economic, engineering, 
environmental, financial, management, railways and technical practices, under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SNCFT shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
Page  3
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
economic, commercial, engineering, financial, management, railways and technical 
practices.
Section 3.03. SNCFT shall make provision satisfactory to the Bank to insure 
itself against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SNCFT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
SNCFT shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such Year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such Year as so 
audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SNCFT shall 
maintain: (i) for Fiscal Year 1998, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating 
revenues not higher than sixty percent (60%); (ii) for Fiscal Year 1999, a ratio of 
total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than fifty-five percent 
(55%); (iii) for Fiscal Year 2000, a ratio of total labor expenses to total operating 
revenues not higher than fifty-three percent (53%); (iv) for Fiscal Year 2001, a ratio 
of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than fifty percent 
(50%); and (v) for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2001, a 
ratio of total labor expenses to total operating revenues not higher than forty-five 
percent (45%).
(b)
Before October 31 in each Fiscal Year, SNCFT shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by SNCFT and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal Year and the 
next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SNCFT would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, SNCFT shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “total labor expenses” means all expenses related to 
salaries and 
wages paid by SNCFT to permanent and fixed-term staff 
employed by SNCFT for 
its operations, excluding expenses related to 
the staff assigned to 
investment-related activities.
(ii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues, comprising all 
taxes, from 
all sources related to operations, including the 
compensations for public 
service obligations.
Page  4
Section 4.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SNCFT shall 
maintain for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1998, a ratio 
of current assets to current liabilities of not less than one (1).
(b)
Before October 31 in each Fiscal Year, SNCFT shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by SNCFT and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal Year and the 
next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SNCFT would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, SNCFT shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve (12) 
months.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, and excluding service on 
debt becoming due by its terms 
within twelve (12) months.
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SNCFT shall not 
incur in any of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1998, 
any debt, unless the net revenues of SNCFT for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding 
the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve (12) month period ended prior to the 
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least one point two 
(1.2) times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of SNCFT for any 
succeeding Fiscal Year on all debt of SNCFT, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of SNCFT maturing by its 
terms more 
than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of SNCFT’s tariffs in effect at the time 
of the incurrence 
of debt even though they were not in effect 
during the twelve (12) 
month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
Page  5
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.05. SNCFT shall, not later than March 31, 1999, conclude and execute 
with the Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafza, an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
redefining the terms of the contractual arrangement regarding charges payable by the 
said company for rail transport of phosphates.
Section 4.06. SNCFT shall: (i) not later than March 31, 1999, prepare and submit 
to the Borrower draft formal guidelines and a methodology, acceptable to the Bank, 
designed to assess and determine the financial profitability its railways passenger 
services; (ii) not later than June 30, 1999, reach an agreement with the Borrower, 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the adoption of such guidelines and methodology; and 
(iii) starting June 30, 1999, take all action required on its behalf to permit the 
optimization of SNCFT railways passenger services which do not meet the financial 
profitability so determined under the guidelines, or, in the event the Borrower shall 
have determined to maintain such services, the Borrower shall sign a convention with 
SNCFT providing the continuation by SNCFT of its operations as a public service 
obligation along with financial compensations under conditions to be established in 
the railways Regulations (Cahier des charges).
Section 4.07. SNCFT shall, not later than June 30, 1999, conclude with the 
Borrower: (i) a convention, satisfactory to the Bank, pertaining to the operation by 
SNCFT, as a public service obligation, of suburban passenger services in the southern 
area of Tunis; and (ii) a convention, satisfactory to the Bank, relative to the 
operation by SNCFT of the suburban passenger services in the area of Sousse-Sahel, 
both in accordance with the financial conditions set forth in the railways Regulations 
(Cahier des charges.)
Section 4.08. SNCFT shall take all action required to ensure the organization 
and establishment, not later than March 31, 1999, of a pilot unit adequate for its 
phosphate transport line of business.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SNCFT 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SNCFT thereof.
Page  6
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SNCFT:
Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens
67 Avenue Farhat Hached
1000 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address:
SONAFERTU
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SNCFT may be 
taken or executed by its President General Director, or by such other person or 
persons as SNCFT shall designate in writing, and SNCFT shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
Page  7
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISIENS
By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub 
Authorized Representative
Schedule 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
for Part B of the Project
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part B.3 of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods for rail fasteners under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(i)
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,500,000 equivalent; and (ii) goods estimated 
to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Page  8
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lumpsum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the 
Project for: (i) environmental studies; (ii) technical studies of infrastructure 
works; (iii) economic and feasibility studies; (iv) accounting; and (v) administrative 
and management training, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  9
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for technical studies of infrastructure works under Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 
and B.4 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for implementation of the organization of SNCFT along lines of business 
under Parts B.6 and B.7 of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part B.6 of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Schedule 2
Implementation Program
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
1.
Quarterly Statistical Reports and Annual Progress Review
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, SNCFT shall, commencing on:
(a)
October 31, 1998, and not later than the twentieth (20th) day of each 
quarter in each Fiscal Year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a report, under a format as the Bank shall reasonably establish, describing 
monthly statistics of the preceding quarter on traffic, motive power and rolling stock 
performance, infrastructure management, human resources and financial performance of 
SNCFT’s operations; and
(b)
April 30, 1999 and not later than April 30 and October 31 in each Fiscal 
Year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably establish, describing in 
accordance with the SNCFT Performance Indicators, the progress achieved in the 
implementation of Part B of the Project during the preceding six (6) month period.
2.
Mid-Term Review
Page  10
SNCFT shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the SNCFT Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and the pricing policies for the railways 
subsector, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank and the Borrower, by October 31, 2000 or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
