                                  MSD project ­AZ (P081616)
                      INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                       CONCEPT STAGE

Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: January 15, 2004

I. BASIC INFORMATION

A. Basic Project Data

Country: Azerbaijan                                  Project ID: P081616
Project Name: Market Services                        Task Team Leader: Sonja Brajovic
Development (MSD)                                    Bratanovic, ECSPF
Estimated Appraisal Date: March, 2004                Loan/Credit amount ($m.): 8
Estimated Board Date: May 2004                       GEF amount ($m.): NA
Managing Unit: ECSPF                                 PCF amount ($m.): NA
Lending Instrument: IDA Credit                       Other financing amounts ($ 6 m.) by
Sector: Finance and Private Sector                   source: $3 m. by GoA, $3 m. TBD
Theme: Improve technical infrastructure
and access to finance for non-oil economy
                                                     Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task
                                                     team: NA


B. Project Objective
Macroeconomic and Country Level:
Increase access to financial services in rural areas.
Provide infrastructure to facilitate public sector reforms, notable reforms of pensions and social
assistance services
Support increase of non-oil private sector share in the economy.
Improve industrial infrastructure related to quality and protection of intellectual property.
Facilitate increase of non-oil exports and/or decrease of non-oil imports of basic goods and food.

Microeconomic and Sector Level:
Private Sector Access to Financial Services:
Improved access to financial services in non-Baku and rural areas.
Improved capacity for non-oil SME and rural finance
Improved (faster, safer and cheaper) delivery of pensions and social security payments
Improved access to electricity and other utilities, due to improved capacity to make/collect utility
payments.

Quality Related Infrastructure:
Improved access to quality related information by businesses in Azerbaijan.
More effective accreditation and certification processes.
Faster, cheaper and more effective quality related measurement and testing facilities available.

Project Related Implementation Indicators
Private Sector Access to Financial Services:

Financial infrastructure successfully improved
AzerPost services financially self sustainable
Access to financial services out of Baku and in rural areas increased by x units.

Quality Related Infrastructure:
Successfully completed new laboratories/testing equipment installed
Much improved effectiveness of ASMIP staff through employment of new technology supporting
the access, storage, and dissemination of relevant data and information.

C. Project Description

Project Components Considered:
A. Improving Access to Financial Services. This will include the following components:
    Infrastructure to Improve Rural Access to Financial Services1. The project will initiate
    restructuring and commercialization of the AzerPost, strengthening of its financial
    management functions and start building the financial service capacity for about 300 access
    points (i.e., through postal offices) in areas that are presently undeserved or not served by the
    Azerbaijan's banking sector.

    Build Interfaces to the E-Based National Payment System.                Government ministries and
    agencies, banking institutions and other entities (such as utility companies) will need to build
    electronic interfaces to the new facilities in order to be able to utilize them. Some amount of
    money will be made available for the entities that are not able to fund the interfaces from
    their own (or from some other) funding sources.

B. Strengthening Quality-Related Industrial Infrastructure.                   The priority program to
modernize the infrastructure related to testing and quality assurance includes:

        Technical assistance program to improve institutional capacity of the Agency for
        Standardization, Metrology, and Patents (Agency). This would include restructuring of
        the Agency into three functional areas including Standardization and Patents,
        Certification and Accreditation and Metrology, Testing and Regional Laboratories;
        technical assistance, as needed, to fully operate within the International Organization for
        Standardization and International Organization for Protection of Intellectual Property and
        the ISO 9001/2000 certification frameworks; and training.

        Modernization of the Agency's information technology (IT) infrastructure. Improved
        access to information is also critical, including information related to standards,
        certification, intellectual property and quality control and quality assurance. This should
        allow significant efficiency improvements for all there functional areas. In addition, this
        would allow the Agency to start providing quality related information, advisory and
        certification services to the private sector.

        Modernization of the technical infrastructure, testing and metrology laboratories. This
        will include a rehabilitation program for measurement, calibration and testing facilities of
        the selected laboratories and measurement/calibration centers for key non-oil subsectors.


1/ The present banking network has about 40 offices out of Bank covering 10 urban centers. The network
of AzerPost consists of 1600 postal offices and agencies in 53 regions in Azerbaijan and 7 regions in the
Naxchivan Autonomous area, covering 115 urban centers and practically all rural areas in Azerbaijan.

         Improvements would include provision of modern equipment for measurement and
         testing and for calibration services to the private sector.

Possible Changes in Project Design. The project design has been modified after the initial
concept review, dropping 2 components (credit line and industrial park). Further changes are
unlikely.


D. Project location (if known)
Multiple locations.

E. Borrower's Institutional Capacity
Institutional capacity in Azerbaijan is generally low.                   However, comparatively speaking,
institutional capacity of the project counterparts is much higher then the averages in Azerbaijan:

    The institutional capacity of the Agency is relatively low, but the Agency is very motivated to
    address this problem and the necessary TA will be included in the project. Moreover, the
    Turkish agencies that are involved and assisting in the preparation of this component are
    recipients of similar Bank projects and their capacity is excellent. The Turkish agencies are
    committed to assist the Agency (ASMIP) to effectively implement the project.

    Institutional capacity of AzerPost is an issue. However, AzerPost is very motivated to
    address this problem. The project will include a TA component for AzerPost and the Swiss
    Government is seriously considering donor financing.

II. SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY

Safeguard Policy                                                      If Applicable, How Might It
                                                                      Apply? [very concise summary]
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                 Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                         NA
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             NA
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)                                    NA
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                          NA
Forests (OP 4.36)                                                     NA
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                           NA
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03)                         NA
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                              NA
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                      NA

Environmental Assessment Category:
A B X C  FI  TBD

Safeguard Policies Classification:
 S1  S2 X S3  SF  TBD



*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'
claims on the disputed areas

III. ACTIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION

A. What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess safeguard
issues and prepare to mitigate them?

The project is mainly focused on "soft" aspects and ICT applications except for
refurbishment of some buildings and no new buildings or civil works are expected.

B. How might consultation and disclosure requirements be addressed?

NA, as per point A. above.

IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED ON SAFEGUARDS AT PCN REVIEW

NA, as per point A. above.

Agreed target date for Quality Enhancement Review:

Proposed date is March 10, 2004, after the preparation/pre-appraisal mission in February
2004.

V. APPROVALS

   Signed and submitted by:
   Task Team Leader:                            S. Brajovic-Bratanovic        1/15/2004
   Approved by:
   Regional Safeguards Coordinator              Ronald Hoffer
   Comments
   Sector Manager                               Tunc Uyanik
   Comments

