Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4030-AZ 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Financial Services Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 24, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4030-AZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement, namely, that 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General 
Conditions is amended by replacing the wo
rds “corrupt or fraudulent” with 
the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Azeri Post” means the AzerPost State Enterprise, established through 
the Order of the Minister of Communications of the Borrower (Order No. 151) dated 
September 23, 1999, to provide postal, financial and other services in the territory of the 
Borrower; and designated as a National Postal Communication Operator through the 
Order of the Minister for Communications and Information Technology (Order No. 122) 
dated  October 7, 2004 on the basis of  the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Postal 
Communication; 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each year; 
 
(d) 
“NBA” means the National Bank of Azerbaijan of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
“PCU” means the project coordination unit established by the Decree of 
the Governor of the NBA, dated March 22, 2001, responsible for the overall fiduciary 
and fund management for the Project and for implementation of Part B of the Project; 
 
(f) 
“POM” means the project operational manual, setting forth the 
implementation rules and procedures for the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement among the Association, the PCU and the TIU; 
 
(g) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
October 20, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(i) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Communications and Information 
Technology (MOCIT) and NBA, respectively, pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
 
(j) 
“TIU” means the technical implementation unit of MOCIT responsible 
for implementation of Part A of the Project.  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
various currencies equivalent to eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2015 and ending November 15, 2039.   
Each installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2024 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through the PCU and the TIU, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the POM and the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to MOCIT 
and NBA, respectively, under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and MOCIT and NBA, respectively, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall include, 
with respect to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with MOCIT, that MOCIT: (i) will 
provide Azeri Post with the appropriate managerial autonomy and accountability 
necessary for the successful completion of the Project and for direct participation in the 
national payment system; and (ii) will enable Azeri Post to obtain the necessary licenses, 
as needed, to establish and operate a satellite-based network for postal offices, provided it 
has satisfied the technical parameters; and 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association
’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the PCU, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
PCU, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) enable 
the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
the PCU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than two months after the date of 
effectiveness, employ the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 above. 
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the POM shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Association, the carrying out of the Project. 
 Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the POM, satisfactory to the Association, has been finalized and adopted 
by the PCU and the TIU; 
(b) 
the financial management system has been strengthened and is 
operational in the PCU in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association; 
(c) 
the TIU has been established and has appointed a manager and a 
procurement specialist, acceptable to the Association; 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
(d) 
the Borrower has adopted a national strategy for the development of 
payment systems for FY 2004-2006; and 
(e) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower
’s Ministry of Finance and MOCIT and NBA, respectively. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
83
Samed Vurgun Street 
 
Baku AZ1022 
 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex: 
   
 
142116 BNKSL 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Ahmed Jehani 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ali Abbasov 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
(a) for Part A 
6,600,000 
100% of local 
 
expenditures (ex-factory 
 
(b) for Part B 
530,000 
cost) and 80% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services 
 
75% of local 
 
including Audit Costs 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of  individual
 
(a) for Part A  
770,000 
consultants domiciled 
 
within the territory of  
  (b) for Part B  
100,000 
the Borrower, 95% of  
 
local expenditures for 
 
(c) for Part C 
200,000 
services of consulting 
firms within the 
territory of the 
Borrower and 85% 
 
of
foreign expenditures 
 
for services of other 
 
individual consultants 
 
and consulting firms  
 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(3) Training 
 
100% 
 
(a) for Part A 
100,000 
 
(b) for Part B 
20,000 
 
(b) for Part C 
50,000 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
30,000
90% 
 
TOTAL 8,400,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
“training” means expenses incurred by the Borrower in connection with 
carrying out training activities under the Project, including course fees, the travel costs 
and per diem for local trainees and trainers, study tours and workshops, rental of facilities 
and equipment and training materials and related supplies; and 
(d) 
“incremental operating costs” means operational and maintenance costs 
incurred by the PCU and TIU on account of management of Project implementation for 
communications, utilities, bank charges, printing and publications, office rent, 
maintenance and supplies, office security systems, vehicle operation and maintenance, 
transportation and field trip expenses, training of PCU and TIU staff for the purpose of 
Project management, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the 
Association. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract;  
(d) training; and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the implementation of the 
Borrower’s poverty reduction strategy and economic reform programs related to regional 
development and development of the non-oil sector through improvements of the access 
of the rural population to financial services and improvements in the financial 
architecture. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Capacity building of the Azeri Post to provide financial and other business 
services in order to improve access to payment services and access to other key financial 
services and business infrastructure in rural areas, including interconnectivity of its 
regional and local offices, through provision of goods, consultants’ services and training. 
Part B
:
Improvement of institutional and technical capacity to implement a strategy on 
the national payment system acceptable to the Association, through provision of goods, 
consultants’ services and training. 
Part C:
Provision of technical assistance, training, auditing services and goods to assist 
the PCU and the TIU for the purposes of effective implementation of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (ot
her than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  If the Borrower employs any procurement or inspection 
agents, it shall ensure that the requirements of Section 3.10 and 3.11 of the Procurement 
Guidelines are met. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
following additional procedures: 
 Domestic 
Preference.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited 
International 
Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of limited international bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, and the following additional 
provisions: 
(i) 
There shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of 
bidder and/or origin of goods. 
(ii) 
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works 
projects. 
(iii) 
Entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding 
of whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for 
the Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally 
and financially autonomous and they operate under commercial 
law. 
(iv) 
No national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin 
of products or labor. 
(v) 
Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for 
their obligations. 
(vi) No 
“participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the 
purchase of bidding documents. The only charge shall be 
equivalent to the cost of producing (copying) the bidding 
documents. 
(vii) 
In the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they 
differ substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the 
procuring entity, except where the bid prices exceed the 
available budget. 
(viii) 
Rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Association. 
(ix) 
Works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months’ duration 
shall include appropriate price adjustment provisions. 
Prior approval of the Association shall be required for any modification in the contract 
scope and conditions during implementation. 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B 
of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines and the following provision:  for purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for audits may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of lowest cost in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
 
.
Page  21
-
19
-
19
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Associa
tion’s views on the matter. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PCU and the 
TIU with resources, staff, powers and functions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
