Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB747 
Project Name 
Azerbaijan - Market Services Development 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement 
(50%);General industry and trade sector (30%);General finance 
sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P081616 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 8, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 27, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 27, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Azerbaijan is facing a period of great opportunity and challenge: oil activities are expected to 
provide the country with at least 20 years of good revenues.  This window of opportunity must 
be used to build country’s capacity to compete on the regional and global markets, which would 
provide a reasonable basis to keep the economy going beyond the oil boom.   
 
The transformation of the economy started in mid 1990s.  Agriculture is responding well to land 
privatization and services and construction are expanding,  following the conflict with Armenia 
and the expansion of the petrochemical sector.  Manufacturing sector did not score well.  It 
contracted by 20 percent annually in the 1991-1996 period, and today plays only a minor role in 
the Azeri economy.  Its growth is affected by still poor business environment, the rising 
influence of powerful interest groups, poor infrastructure, weak institutions, and shallow 
financial system.  Productive activities outside the extractive industry remain depressed and for 
the most part disconnected from the larger world.  At the same time, international markets are 
becoming more competitive, with increasingly stringent product quality and performance 
requirements, such as certification by internationally recognized standards, such as ISO 9000. 
The catch-up process of Azeri enterprises would be long and challenging.   
 
Despite much improved growth prospects and low inflation, the Azeri financial system remains 
underdeveloped.  Banking sector, the most developed segment of the financial system, is small, 
even by the standards of transition economies, and with significant structural problems.  The 
system is strongly dominated by International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA), a state owned bank that 
accounts for about 55 percent of the banking system assets.  There are clear signs that IBA is 
able to monopolize and manipulate almost all banking markets segments.    There is also a large 
number of so-called pocket banks - assets of the smaller 26 banks average about USD 4 million 
and of the smallest ten USD 2.3 million.    These small banks are unlikely to be able to compete 
Page  2
with IBA and a banking system with such a structure is not likely to support growth of a market 
economy or spur competition and efficiency.   
 
Even more problematic is that the banks are not interested in the provision of financial services 
to the economy at large, especially to poor and in rural areas.  The total number of branches in 
non-Baku areas is about 50.  Creating a vibrant banking system requires energetic 
implementation of a comprehensive and well-sequenced program to ensure financial soundness, 
on the one hand, and promote financial development, on the other. The main elements of such a 
program include prudential regulation and supervision, policy towards the state-owned banks, 
measures to open access to competition, level the playing field and enforce exit of non-viable 
banks, and other policies that stimulate efficiency and growth of banking and other financial 
markets.   
 
Lack of access to financial services for the SMEs and the poor, especially in rural areas, is a key 
challenge for poverty reduction and rural development
.
The payment systems operated by the 
NBA do not reach remote parts of the country.  Access to credit in rural areas is being provided 
mainly by donor-funded micro-finance institutions (MFIs) and attempts are under way to 
stimulate the creation of credit cooperatives. A platform for the provision of access to payment 
and other financial services and for the use of modern technology to improve general market 
access needs to be developed for the remote urban and rural areas.  The Azeri authorities face the 
challenge to address current vulnerabilities and to dismantle all impediments through a rapidly 
implementable and properly sequenced reform strategy.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
Macroeconomic and Country Level: 
·
Increase access to financial services in rural areas. 
·
Provide payment system infrastructure to facilitate public sector reforms, notable reforms 
of pensions and social assistance services 
·
Increase the share of non-oil private sector in the economy. 
·
Improve industrial infrastructure related to quality and protection of intellectual property. 
·
Facilitate increase of non-oil exports and/or decrease of non-oil imports of basic goods 
and food.   
 
Microeconomic and Sector Level: 
Private Sector Access to Financial Services:  
·
Improved access to financial services in non-Baku and rural areas. 
·
Improved capacity for non-oil SME and rural finance 
·
Improved (faster, safer and cheaper) delivery of pensions and social security payments 
·
Improved access to electricity and other utilities, due to improved capacity to 
make/collect utility payments. 
 
Business and Quality Related Infrastructure: 
·
Access to telephone, fax and E-Mail services in non-Baku and rural areas 
Page  3
·
Improved access to quality related information by businesses in Azerbaijan. 
·
More effective accreditation and certification processes. 
·
Faster, cheaper and more effective quality related measurement and testing facilities 
available. 
 
Project Related Implementation Indicators
 
Private Sector Access to Financial Services
:
·
Financial infrastructure successfully improved 
·
AzerPost services financially self sustainable 
·
Access to financial services out of Baku and in rural areas increased by x units. 
 
Quality Related Infrastructure: 
·
Successfully completed new laboratories/testing equipment installed 
·
Much improved effectiveness of ASMIP staff through employment of new technology 
supporting the access, storage, and dissemination of relevant data and information. 
 
Azerbaijan’s PRSP, known as the State Program on Poverty Reduction and Development 
(SPPRED), envisages the following basic thrusts: (a) maintenance of macroeconomic stability, 
improvements in the business environment (including with respect to governance and corruption) 
and sustainable and balanced growth outside both the oil sector and the Baku area; (b) 
strengthening of the social safety net, notably by reforms of pensions and targeted social 
assistance; (c) building the infrastructure necessary for a market economy or reversing 
deterioration in infrastructure, including through energy sector reforms; and (d) strengthening of 
the institutional framework for poverty reduction, including measures aimed at corruption and 
improving data.  The MSD project will directly contribute to the successful realization of the 
SPRED by creating tools, such as Azeri Post platform to facilitate provision of financial services 
and basic industrial infrastructure, that would facilitate creation of markets and growth in smaller 
urban and rural areas. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for the 2003-05 period comprises three inter-related 
prongs with the key objective to support the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy 
(SPPRED) implementation.  The three prongs include: (i) assistance to improve management of 
the oil windfalls; (ii) support to jobs creation and non-oil sector growth, especially in rural areas; 
and (iii) improving social services and infrastructure.  The underlying theme of the Bank’s CAS 
is the assistance to avoid the “Dutch Disease”.  The Bank’s choices reflect the experience with 
the ongoing portfolio and an assessment of areas in which the Bank Group can have most 
impact, taking into account the activities of Azerbaijan’s other external partners.    
 
This operation will be one of the key vehicles in support of the second and third prong of the 
new CAS.  The non-oil sector and the rural areas have received little attention so far, and these 
are the proposed targets of the project.
 
The main theme for this project addresses the key issue 
Page  4
identified by the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), which is the lack of access to 
financial services in rural areas.  Economic and market development in smaller urban centers out 
of Baku and in rural areas will not be possible unless the access to financial services is improved.   
Also, non-oil sector and exports development will not be possible unless there is at least a 
rudimentary industrial infrastructure to ensure that the Azeri products meet the quality 
requirements of its potential export markets.  
 
The Bank has an advantage in building the financial sector infrastructure, especially because the 
key infrastructure component under the proposed project will, in a sense, provide a continuation 
in building the infrastructure initiated under the (very successful) FSTA project.  The availability 
of such financial sector infrastructure will also facilitate public sector reforms.  Therefore, other 
partners are encouraging the Bank to go forward, as the bottom-line results of the project would 
create an enabling environment for their planned projects and activities.     
 
4. Description 
 
The objectives of the MSD projects are addressed by the following three components:  
(i) 
A component for Azeri Post 
for modernization and commercialization of the Azeri Post
1
,
including its accounting, financial management and operational functions and product and 
services structure, and build the financial service capacity in rural areas that are presently 
undeserved or not served by the Azerbaijan’s banking sector.  This is expected to stimulate 
development of economic activities and markets in rural areas. 
·
The interconnectivity of the postal network will be accomplished by employing 
satellite based interconnectivity platform.   
(ii) 
A component for the NBA
,
to finalize the development of the National Payment System 
Architecture to facilitate development electronic payment services and management of 
payment risks, interface with the large billing systems and integration to the payment system 
in rural areas (including the use of the e-based payment instruments and card-systems). 
(iii) 
A component for the Agency for Standardization, Measurements and Patents 
to 
modernize the AZS, including its management functions, to improve its quality related 
services and capacity to participate in international work and provide information in the areas 
of its activities, and to modernize its measurement and testing capacity.  
Following are more detailed descriptions of MSD components.  Further details are provided in 
the respective annexes. 
 
Azeri Post Platform to Improve Access to Financial Services in Rural Areas.  
In many 
countries postal systems have been used as the main vehicle for the provision of access to 
1
/
The present banking network has about 40 offices out of Bank covering 10 urban centers.  The network of 
AzerPost consists of 1600 postal offices and agencies in 53 regions in Azerbaijan and 7 regions in the Naxchivan 
Autonomous area, covering 115 urban centers and practically all rural areas in Azerbaijan.   
Page  5
financial services for the poor and in rural areas.  The benefits of developing financial service 
capacity within the postal system are manifold: 
 
·
Postal financial services often play a significant role in the 
financial sustainability of 
the postal system
 by providing steady and substantial revenues derived from 
processing financial transactions.  In other words,  postal financial services are a new 
source of revenues critically important for the financial performance of the post 
office, thereby allowing continued existence of traditional mail services in sparsely 
populated rural areas.   
·
The support to financial transactions through the postal system, where no other 
alternatives exist, can contribute to the 
development of market economies by 
facilitating commercial transactions 
between two parties, reducing the cost of these 
transactions, and by building commercial relationships and avenues of business 
development and expansion.  
 
·
In the absence of other formal payment systems, these postal payment systems can 
also 
contribute to the reductions in systemic risk
 to the financial system through 
increasing liquidity by faster execution of payment transactions, which also reduces 
the exposures to potential failures to pay on outstanding obligations by parties in the 
transaction.   
 
·
The postal financial services could provide an 
effective means to mobilize citizens’ 
savings 
 and use them for budget financing and/or to finance state investments.  
 
Annex 4 Part 1
 provides a detailed description of Azeri Post (AZP) and of its respective 
component, including   all main management and functional areas of AZP.   In general, the type of 
business management and the level of IT support needed in the new AZP, with stronger orientation 
on the provision of financial services, is comparable to that in a small bank providing simpler 
financial services (but, no
lending). 
The total identified modernization needs for the Azeri Post structure amounts to 
USD5.6 
million
,
of
which 
USD3.2 million
 for the headquarters, about 
USD642,000
 for the regional 
offices and 
USD2,75 million
 for the postal network.  This is a modular program that can be 
implemented on a piece meal basis.  The  table below summarizes the estimated total 
investments for the Azeri Post component.  
 
Total Costs Estimated for Azeri Post Component 
Category Estimated 
Amount 
Technical Assistance 
500,000 
Training 1,200,000 
Application Software System 
720,000 
Headquarters Computer Room (incl. Servers) 
366,000 
Head Quarters Automation Total 
475,000 
Headquarters Total 
3,260,000 
Regional Branches Total 
(70 branches) 
642,000 
Page  6
Branches & Agencies Total 
(1100 postal offices) 
2,750,000 
Grand Total 
5,653,500 
The investment program is summarized in Annex 4, Part 1.  Once the AZP systems are 
modernized and the network is interconnected, new financial services could be introduced, 
including: (i) 
new financial services
,
such as deposits (sight and time deposits), selling other 
savings products, upgrading the money order and transfer systems, issuing cards backed by 
customer deposits, etc.; (ii) 
electronic-based Government services
,
such as issuance of various 
certificates and business and personal documents by the local and central Government, payment 
of taxes, fees  and other dues to the central and local government authorities, etc; (iii) electronic-
based services, such as electronic-commerce, cyber-post and E-Mail address, Internet access, 
access to information, as well as to electronic markets (known as B2B and B2C portals). 
 
Interconnectivity for Azeri Post Platform.  
The current infrastructure is inadequate to 
meet the overall connectivity needs, especially to be able to provide access to financial services 
in rural areas. The main reason for this is inadequacy of the domestic access (last mile) network, 
which is poorly developed outside the few main routes.  The solution for fast and cost effective 
interconnectivity has been found in a 
satellite based IP broadband overlay network
.
The most 
suitable satellite based network design to address these particular needs is a DVB (Digital Video 
Broadcast) satellite network with broadband outbound TDM (Time Division Multiplex) carrier 
and multiple TDMA Inbounds carriers. This network can be implemented with symmetrical or 
asymmetrical configuration (that are easily interchangeable). 
Ku Band
 is preferred for an 
operation of this type.  All services to be carried over network are planned to be integrated over 
IP platform
.
Satellite network will be configured as a “
Star Network
”.  
 
The cost of the broadbank hub in AZP head quarters is estimated to be 
USD930,000
.
The 
costs per location for postal offices in rural areas is estimated to be 
USD3,500.
 
The rural access 
capacity  will include full provision of all financial services, plus converged data, facsimile and 
voice (on a broadband platform). For the whole network, this translates into 
US$4.2M.  
In the 
last phase, with full interconnectivity for 1,200 locations the monthly operational cost is 
estimated to be USD41.  The solution is able to accommodate a much larger number of locations, 
and up to 20,000 would not be a problem.
 
National Payment System Architecture.  
The national payment system infrastructure 
started to be developed under the Bank’s Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA) 
project, with a large value payment system (AZIPS) installed in 2001.  It continued under the 
Financial Sector Technical Assistance (FSTA) project, where two other major components were 
developed: a small value/bulk payment and settlement system (BCSS) that became operational in 
late 2002 and a Card Processing Center (CPC) that will be completed in late 2004.  While the 
key elements of the payment system architecture are already there, some additional modules are 
needed to integrate the system and create an efficient and comprehensive functional architecture 
that ensures technical and legal consistency and meets the international standards for 
systemically important payment systems.  These modules will be completed under the MSD 
project, including:  
 
Page  7
·
Payment Risk Management System
 (PRMS) that would store information regarding rejection 
of payments due to lack of funds in the clients account. The PRMS will store information on 
indelicate clients and will provide corresponding information to banks and merchants and will 
enable them to avoid acceptance of payment instruments (cards) that might not be honored. 
 
·
Interface to Large Non-bank Systems
 (
ILNS) 
will support direct system-to-system interfaces 
of the BCSS to large sources of small value payments.  For example, this will include large 
utility companies such as telephone, electricity, water, gas, etc. Also,   Government and quasi-
government entities that create large number of payment transactions, such as central and local 
tax payments, custom payments, pension and social security payments will have a direct 
interface to the national payment system.  Once the ILNS is completed, banks and Azeri Post 
(once its new systems have been installed) will be able to directly interconnect to the systems of 
large creators of small value payments and be able to exchange information on bills to be 
collected, and amounts collected.   This will facilitate collections and improve the quality of 
billing services.  
 
·
Azeri Post Interface 
will provide direct interface of the Azeri Post system to the BCSS, 
thereby integrating the platform for provision of payment services in the rural areas with the 
national payment system architecture. The precondition for this interface is that the Azeri Post 
internal processing and transaction management systems be able to meet the technical criteria 
established by the NBA.  
 
The total funding needed for this component is 
USD850,000
.
The summary of the MSD 
interface component and of the cost estimates is provided in the table below.
 
Interfaces to the Payment System Architecture 
–
Investment Needs
 
Item Estimated 
Cost 
Description 
Large User Interface to the 
BCSS 
 
USD 300,000 
Software system to be purchased or developed to provide 
system-to-system interface to the BCSS  
Azeri Post Interface to the 
BCSS 
USD 200,000 
Software system to be purchased or developed to connect 
the Azeri Post platform to BCSS.   
Credit/Payment Risk 
Management System 
USD 200,000 
Software system for risk management to be purchased or 
developed.   
Technical Assistance to 
NBA to Integrate the 
Payment Sys. Architecture 
USD 150,000 
Consulting assistance to help NBA to implement the 
national payment system strategy and the three interface 
modules.   
Modern Industrial Infrastructure.  
The priority program to modernize industrial 
infrastructure  will focus on the 
Agency for Standardization, Metrology and Patents 
(
AZS
).  
The field of activity of AZS is of significant importance for the development of both oil and non-
oil industry, as well as for the development of exports, import substitution and consumer 
protection. Standardization, metrology, testing, and quality related services (
SMTQ
)
are 
complex and technology-intensive.  While AZS appears to be a fairly well developed 
organization with generally good technical skills and management, its capabilities in the core 
SMTQ are low, and its equipment obsolete and unsuitable to perform efficiently or reliably most 
Page  8
of the assigned tasks. Also, AZS systems are still mainly paper based. The objective of the AZS 
component is to help AZS to: 
 
ƒ
Meet the standards necessary for Azerbaijan to join the World Trade Organization (WTO) 
and become more proactive in key international activities in its areas, in particular the 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO),  the World Intellectual Property 
Organization (WIPO).  
 
ƒ
Improve the capacity to provide information to exporters, importers and all other interested 
parties in its related fields. 
 
ƒ
Establish effective system for protection of intellectual property, as not to deter foreign 
investments related to products with higher knowledge content and access to modern technology. 
 
ƒ
Improve capacity to provide the measurement and quality related services needed by 
Azerbaijan, especially for exports growth in the non-oil sector.  
 
Given the fairly large investments required and the multiplier effects of SMTQ services 
on industrial and market development, most countries consider these services to be a public 
good, which deserves public support.  In practice, no country, especially not a small developing 
country, can be totally self sufficient.  Therefore, based on the key economic areas of activity, a 
country needs to determine the optimum SMTQ investments needed
2
.
The AZS proposed that 
the MSD project be focused on 
agriculture and foodstuff, chemicals, mechanical and electrical 
products, and textiles
—the major non-oil sectors of the Azeri economy.  In addition, the MSD 
component includes financing for technical assistance, training and information technology. 
 
Modernization of Technical Infrastructure of Testing and Metrology Laboratories
.
This is the most urgent need, as many tests can not be done on obsolete equipment that at least 
two or more technology cycle behind equipment used in modern laboratories.  It will include a 
rehabilitation program for measurement, calibration and testing facilities of the selected 
laboratories and measurement/calibration centers for selected key non-oil sub-sectors. The 
equipments required by the metrology department is basic. The total estimated cost is about 
USD2,350,000
 as summarized in the following table. Further details are provided in Annex 3. 
 
S
UMMARY OF  
E
QUIPMENT 
C
OST
 
Metrology Sector/Area 
 
Physical and Chemical Metrology 
625,000 
Temperature and Pressure Metrology 
45,000 
Mechanical and Geometrical Metrology 
185,000 
Electrical Metrology 
145,000 
Total Metrology 
USD1,000,000 
Total Testing and Analysis 
USD1,350,000 
Total USD2,350,00 
The detailed itemized list of priority equipment is available from AZS on request.  
AZS 
staff is in the process of  finalizing the lists to reflect CIF prices, which will increase the 
2
A
basic (modern) SMTQ system covering 3-4 principal economic sectors cost about $25-30 million.   
Page  9
estimated total amount. The equipment will be placed in laboratories, where there exist 
uninterrupted power supply and stable environmental conditions. 
 
Technical Assistance 
is needed
 
to improve general management skills (including 
financial management and marketing) and some TA related to project implementation, such as 
for preparation of technical specifications, testing, inspection and calibration of equipment new 
equipment, training for the usage of the equipment, and preparation of necessary documentation, 
including quality systems and operational procedures.  In addition, TA may be required for 
execution of  AZS strategy to strengthen the key functions, as summarized in the following table.  
The estimated technical assistance needs amount to about 
USD432,000.
 
Further details are 
provided in Annex 3. 
 
AZS T
ECHNICAL 
A
SSISTANCE 
N
EEDS
 
Standardization
 
USD 177,000 
Measurements 
USD120,000 
Protection of Intellectual property 
USD135,000 
Total USD432,000 
Training
.
The training program objectives are to: (i) improve AZS functional and 
technical skills such as development of local standards and adaptation of international standards, 
certification procedures, registration of trademarks, registration of patents, etc; (ii) strengthen 
management skills, such as general management, marketing and outreach, business and financial 
management, development of internal procedures, improvement of service delivery, etc.; (iii) 
learn to efficiently and safely operate the new equipment in performing its metrics and testing 
services; and (iv) IT related training.  The estimated budget needed for the training 
subcomponent is about 
USD570,000, 
as shown in the table below. Further details on AZS 
training program are provided in Annex 3. 
AZS Training Summary 
AZS Function 
Total Amount 
Local Training 
Study Tours 
LT Train. Abroad 
Standardization 
USD 140,000 
USD40,000 
USD50,000 
USD50,000 
Metrology/Testing  
USD 140,000 
USD40,000 
USD50,000 
USD50,000 
Protection of Intellectual Property 
USD 140,000 
USD40,000 
USD50,000 
USD50,000 
General Management 
USD100,000 USD30,000 
USD70,000 
 
Information Technology 
USD50,000 USD50,000 
 
 
Total 
USD570,000 USD200,000 
USD220,000 
USD150,000 
Information Technology (IT) Modernization
.
The objective of the IT component is to 
allow AZS to: (i) effectively support its key functions (e.g., standardization); (ii) improve office 
productivity of AZS management and technical staff; and (iii) improve access to information.   
Improved access to information for outside clients is important, including information related to 
standards, certification, intellectual property and quality control and quality assurance.  New IT 
should also result in significant efficiency improvements for all there functional areas.  This 
component amounts to about 
USD345,000, 
in addition to the donation to improve the IT made 
by UNDP.  Further details on the IT program are provided in Annex 3. 
 
Page  10
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
13 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The concept for the MSD project has been developed in cooperation with the National Bank of 
Azerbaijan (NBA) and the Ministry of Telecommunications.  From the NGOs, the key partners 
in the dialogue were the Banking Association and the Azerbaijan Confederation of 
Entrepreneurs.  A number of state agencies and NGOs active in the related areas have also been 
consulted, as well as some of the larger bilateral donors (e.g., US-Aid, BP).  What has emerged 
is a consensus that the project should focus on the areas where the Bank’s assistance would most 
effectively support the Government’s SME agenda, in terms of broader impact and higher 
chances of program success, and where it can be an integrating factor or provide a micro-policy 
umbrella for intended projects of smaller donors and the commercial private sector.   
 
The team has approached donors and relevant institutions to attract possible co-financing and TA 
support to facilitate and expand some of the activities carried out by the project. In particular: 
·
The UN Universal Postal Union (UPU) has expressed interest and is willing to provide 
donor assistance to include Azeri Post into international network for remittances maintained 
by UPU.  Other TA may also be made available.  
·
The Swiss Government has expressed interest to finance TA related to implementation of 
the Azeri Post component, providing that the terms of reference are agreed and the Bank 
agrees to supervise the delivery. 
·
The International Association of Postal Banks  with headquarters in Bruxelles, Belgium, 
has indicated availability of assistance in an advisory, funding, or training capacity for 
Azerpost. 
·
The Turkish Standards Institute (TSE), already providing advisory services to AZS in 
corresponding activities, including a fully equipped laboratory to carry out textile testing and 
the Turkish Metrology Institute have expressed their availability to provide technical 
assistance to AZS locally and at their own premises on subsidized basis. 
·
USAID has also expressed interest in supporting AZS by including it in existing relevant 
programs (IPR Participant Training Program, World Learning, stages with the US 
Department of Industry and Technology,  the Department of Commerce—in particular NITS, 
and HACCP—Health and Critical Control Program for foodstuffs processing and 
packaging). 
·
UNDP is interested in AZS, and is endowing it with a grant of $240, 000 which will 
provide 20 new PCs, 1 server connected to HQ via e-mail and modem connection 
internationally, database to transfer part of current paper-based data, host electronic versions 
of documents and patent systems, and build the agency’s first web site. This assistance is 
expected to cover about 20% of AZS’ systems needs. 
Page  11
The project team has also approached the National Physical Laboratory in the UK, the 
Stockholm Institute in Norway, and similar institutes in Switzerland, Germany, Nederland, Italy, 
for possible additional support to AZS.  Further donors’ support is being sought through CTF 
and PHRD, to ensure both Azeri organizations access to a wide spectrum of international best 
practice, to establish a useful network of technical contacts for additional capacity building and 
cross fertilization.     
 
All agencies participating in the project (NBA, Azeri Post and AZS) will maintain on-
going and direct relationship with the World Bank during project implementation.  The World 
Bank project team will also have regular consultations with the counterpart ministries (Ministry 
of Economic Development, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Telecommunications and 
Information Technology) and other parties interested in implementation of the MSD project. 
 
The overall 
Project Coordination Unit
 (PCU) will be located in the NBA.  The PCU will 
be responsible for overall credit administration, for disbursement and documentation, for 
financial reporting to the World Bank, for filing and auditing of MSD project accounts, and for 
general procurement planning.  Since the NBA already has the capacity for World Bank project 
administration, this arrangement will significantly speed-up the start of MSD project 
implementation
3
.
The PCU in the NBA will also be responsible for implementation of the NBA 
related component.   
 
In addition, Azeri Post and AZS will each have a Technical Implementation Unit (TIU).  
The TIUs will be responsible for implementation of their respective components, including 
procurement of goods, evaluation and selection of technical assistance and organization of 
training programs included in the MSD.  The TIU staff will be adequately trained in World Bank 
procurement procedures.  The technical units in Azeri Post and AZS will work in close 
cooperation with the PCU.   
 
Incremental Cost Related to Project Implementation 
 
Item Estimated 
Cost 
Building capacity for Financial Management and Reporting 
USD 100,000 
Training of PCU staff 
USD 20,000 
Training of TIU staff (2*20,000) 
USD 40,000 
External Audits of Project Accounts (2004, 2005, 2006, 2007) 
USD 180,000 
Other incremental cost  
USD 40,000 
Total Project Implementation Cost 
USD380,000 
The Project Coordination Unit should be fully operational by the Bank’s Board 
presentation, including the Project Implementation Manual and the computerized Financial 
Management System.  The PCU function will be covered by the current Project Implementation 
3
The NBA is currently implementing Financial Sector Technical Assistance.  Therefore, it already has the necessary 
capacity for disbursement and financial reporting, for credit administration, for filing and auditing of project 
accounts, and for procurement planning and procurement oversight.  Building of this capacity in the NBA took 
about 18 months and investments in project monitoring and financial reporting software.   
Page  12
Unit for the Financial Sector Technical Assistance.  The mission appraised the financial 
management and procurement capacity and fond them to be generally satisfactory.  There are 
some minor modifications needed, and the MSD accounts need to be set before project 
effectiveness.  Also, the FSTA Project Implementation Manual needs to be updated for the MSD.  
The two Technical Implementation Units should also be established at immediately after 
negotiations. 
 
7. Sustainability 
All three project components are intrinsically sustainable, since they have direct earning 
potential as well as multiplier effects in the larger economic spectrum. In particular:  
 
·
Azerpost will be able to provide new and better services, improving its operational 
bottom line as well as expanding the range and availability of services available to the 
rural population in the pilot areas     
·
Satellite interconnectivity will give the Ministry of Telecommunication and the overall 
country the base for additional important services, both fee-based and of public interest, 
such as distance learning, e-government, pensions payments and other welfare policies 
·
AZS will be better able to provide services for health and consumer’s protection, through 
higher enforced product standards for both locally produced and imported goods, to 
foster  higher product and process standards among domestic companies, making them 
more competitive and export-viable, and to overall support a closer integration with the 
international markets in a growing range of goods.      
·
The National Bank of Azerbaijan will have a viable infrastructure for the national 
payments system, which will allow for increased provision of financial services, more 
players for healthy competition, and real time information for better prudential oversight.      
 
Given the difficulty in quantifying the multiplier effects of the three last components, a cost-
benefit analysis will be included only for the Azerpost component.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
In many areas of the world, postal systems played a prominent role in providing financial 
services to the poor and to mobilizing savings in rural areas.  The model of postal financial 
services has first been tried in industrialized countries, at the start of industrialization, for 
example in the United Kingdom (1861), Canada (1868), Belgium (1870), Japan (1875), France 
(1881), Austria (1883) and the United States (1910).  As of 2000, 60 countries used postal 
systems for the provision of financial services, with 45 of these in developing and transition 
countries.  They maintain over 700 million savings and giro accounts and process over 10 billion 
money transfers and 100 million international payments on an annual basis.  While these systems 
have traditionally been owned by the state, recently policies have focused on full 
commercialization of postal systems. 
 
Page  13
The use of postal systems is especially important in developing and transition economies. 
In many, the postal system acts as the main intermediary for cashless transactions and plays a 
prominent role in payment processing for bill payments and government collections (taxes) and 
disbursals (welfare benefits).  In addition to providing access to financial services for the poor 
and in rural areas, the benefits of developing financial service capacity within the postal system 
are manifold.  The most frequently cited benefits include:  
·
Postal financial services often play a significant role in the 
financial sustainability of 
the postal system
 by providing steady and substantial revenues derived from processing 
financial transactions.  In other words,  postal financial services are a new source of 
revenues critically important for the financial performance of the post office, thereby 
allowing continued existence of traditional mail services in sparsely populated rural 
areas.  The postal financial services revenue is often a cross-subsidy for the inefficient 
traditional mail delivery operations.  Postal financial services (primarily payments 
processing) have been estimated to represent between 40-80 percent of revenues for the 
post offices in Central and Eastern Europe.  Even in Western Europe, financial services 
have been estimated to contribute to as much 20 percent of overall postal revenues, for 
example in the case of La Poste, France (25.4%) and Deutsche Post, Germany (21.8%).    
 
·
The support to financial transactions through the postal system, where no other 
alternatives exist, can contribute to the 
development of market economies by facilitating 
commercial transactions 
between two parties, reducing the cost of these transactions, and by 
building commercial relationships and avenues of business development and expansion.  
 
·
In the absence of other formal payment systems, these postal payment systems can also 
contribute to the reductions in systemic risk
 to the financial system through increasing 
liquidity by faster execution of payment transactions, which also reduces the exposures to 
potential failures to pay on outstanding obligations by parties in the transaction.   
 
·
The postal financial services could provide an 
effective means to mobilize citizens’ 
savings 
 and use them for budget financing and/or to finance state investments
4
.
The savings 
are typically channeled to Ministries of Finance or Treasury either directly or via investments 
in government securities.  Alternatively, they are posted with the central bank.  In both cases, 
there is an implicit deposit insurance.  Consequently, postal saving systems normally attract 
4
China’s postal financial services system offers basic financial services of payments and bill collection and money 
order services, etc. and manages a substantial savings and payment operation (it is prohibited from conducting 
lending operations). There are over 66,000 postal offices country-wide and 110 million postal savings accounts 
worth over US$60 billion.  With approximately 8 percent of the total Chinese deposit market in 2001, the postal 
savings system was the fourth largest deposit holder in China.   
Japan created postal financial services and savings system in 1875. The Japanese postal savings system, 
Yucho
,
although not a bank, grew to be the largest financial institution in the world in 2001 in terms of assets.  The 
Yucho
 
system has 24,700 retail outlets, the most extensive network in Japan, and also offers 24,000 ATMs shared with 
major banks.  The postal savings system offers a wide array of standardized financial products and services.  
Approximately 70% of the Japanese have savings accounts with the postal system, which amounts to about US$ 2.1 
trillion or 35% of the total value of deposits among individual households in Japan.  The postal savings system 
investments are usually channeled into public investment projects throughout Japan, through the Trust Fund Bureau 
of the Ministry of Finance. 
Page  14
more savings than private sector institutions during times of instability or crisis due to the 
real or perceived safety of the postal systems.   
 
·
In addition, well-functioning payment systems may contribute to economic 
development by 
facilitating non-cash operations
 and to the development of the financial 
sector through improving user confidence in the system and facilitating the expansion of new 
products and services offered by the formal financial sector.   
 
Industrial Infrastructure.  
Recent relevant experiences derive from the two projects in Turkey.  
Over the past 12 years, with the help of the World Bank, Turkey has managed to 
close a 
technological and managerial gap of about 80 years.
 From a very limited base, the Turkish 
Standards and Metrology Institutes have expanded to serve almost 100% of metrology needs of 
the companies, even in complex industrial sectors such as electronics and automotive. The 
Metrology Institute of Turkey in particular generates today more than $2 million in revenues for 
the state with 46 laboratories,  and supports more than $470 million a year of certified products 
for export.     The main lessons from these and similar projects are as follows: 
 
·
The demands for measurement accuracy and rigorous product specification embodied in 
public standards continues to grow in all OECD countries and is reinforced by the 
requirements posited by WTO accession. This factor is particularly cogent for th
e
Azeri’s 
manufacturing industry, as it will need to move to more advanced, technology and skills 
intensive production model.   
·
Information and services related to SMTQ need to be actively disseminated, to create 
awareness of such requirements and facilitate the adoption of such services and standards by 
local companies active in the different productive sectors of the economy. In this context, it 
is important to foresee a two-way system of dialogue with stakeholders as well as private 
participation in the provision of the testing, certification, and secondary metrics services, to 
secure service that actually respond to clients’ needs and are competitive in quality and price.  
·
Institution building and skills acquisition in the Agency’s staff,  including its regional offices, 
libraries, and laboratories, are as important as the availability of modern equipment.     
·
The underlying process is overall complex, and requires substantial investments with a 
consistent, long-term agenda. 
 
These factors are all included in the MSD project design, and tailored to the level of maturity of 
the Azeri institutions and market. The project in particular recognizes the importance of a 
gradual approach of investment and capacity building at institutional level, so as to set the 
Agency on the path toward compliance with international standards and support its role of 
qualified promoter and facilitator of such services and requirements among its industrial 
structure.  The project is meant to support the first step in a long process, with possible follow up 
interventions to be based on the increasing institutional and technical capabilities of the Agency 
and the more complex demands posited by its customers.    This is consistent with the findings of 
an OED report
5
hinting that in most innovation projects by the Bank “…there appears to be too 
5
Study on Bank Lending fro Industrial Technology Development, OED, World Bank, 1993. 
Page  15
much attention to R&D financing rather than the more mundane needs of training, quality 
improvement…”, confirmed by the above mentioned recent World Bank study. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Component II:  
1. 
AZS Organizational Chart 
2. AZS locations 
1. 
AZS IT Requirements  
3. Staff 
Training Requirements 
4. 
Equipment Requirements for Standards Laboratories 
2. 
Equipment Requirements for Metrology Laboratories 
3. 
AZS First Expert Report, November 2003 Mission 
4. 
AZS Needs Assessment Report, January 2004 Mission 
5.  AZS Final Expert Report, February 2004 Mission 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: S. Brajovic-Bratanovic 
Title: Sr Financial Sector Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-2985 
Fax:  
Email: Sbrajovicbratano@worldbank.org 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  16
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
