                                                                                        52129
                      DATA SHEET FOR RESTRUCTURING PAPER ON

                     FINANCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                          TO THE REPUBLIC OF AZERllAIJAN
                                     (C4030-AZ)

  Date: December 16, 2009                             Task Team Leader: Michael Edwards
. Country: Republic of Azerbaijan                     Sector ManagerlDirector: John Pollner
  Project Name: Financial Services Development        (Acting)"
  Project (the Project)                               Country ;Director: Asad Alam
  Project ID: P081616                                 Environmental category: Not required
  Borrower: Republic of Azerbaijan
  Responsible agency: The Ministry of Finance overall; the Ministry of Communication and
  Information Technologies for Component 1 (Azerpost) and the Central Bank of Azerbaijan for
  Component 2 (the national payment system architecture)
  Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$ m
FY                    2005            2006       2007            2008         2009           2010
Annual                  0            317,055    688,888       1,388,188     3,420,446     4,961,967
Cumulative              0            317,055   1,005,943      2,394,131     5,814,577     10,526,544
 Indicate if the restructuring is:                              !

 Board approved          -   !XI
 RVP approved_                                                   ,

 Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?             - Yes I:&l No
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                       -
                                                                                       Yes      No
 Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board? i                         Yes I:&l No
 The revised project development objectives/outcome would be to: increase efficient access to
 financial services in targeted cities, rayon centers and rural areas and support adoption of a
 strategic framework for an efficient payment system infrastructure.
 Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
 Revised Financing Plan (US$ million)
 Source                                                      Local          Foreign         Total
 Borrower                                                   0.743,                         0.743
                                                                 ,
 IDA                                                                       10.526          10.526
 Swiss Grant TF091639                                                       0.613          0.613
 Total                                                      0.743          11.139          11.882




                                                   3"
                                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER ON A
                            PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING OF
                         FINANCIAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                             TO THE THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN


  A. Introductory Statement

This Restructuring Paper seeks Board approval to introduce changes in the Republic of
Azerbaijan Financial Services Development Project (the project), Development Credit
Agreement No. 4030-AZ, P081616, and the related amendments to the legal agreements. The
proposed major changes include: (i) reformulated Project Development Objectives (PDO),
outcome and component indicators and targets to more closely measure the outcomes of the
original and restructured project expected by the closing date; (ii) reduction of the scope of the
Component 2 and alignment of its description with changes during implementation; and (iii)
subsequent cancellation ofSDR 713,140.07 (or 8.5%) of the Credit proceeds. The minor changes
include: (i) reallocation of Credit proceeds between disbursements categories to meet the project
needs; (ii) clarification of the Component 1 description and activities; (iii) revised project
financing and costs to reflect changes during implementation; and (iv) a revised disbursement
schedule to reflect the initial implementation delays and the recently extended implementation
period. Expected outcomes include: (i) increased efficient access to financial services in targeted
cities, rayon centers and rural areas and (ii) adoption of a strategic framework for an efficient
payment system infrastructure.

B. Background and Reasons for Restructuring

 The project was approved on January 6, 2005 and became effective on October 14,2005. The
 original Project Development Objective (PDO), as defined in the Development Credit
 Agreement and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), is to facilitate the implementation of the
 Borrower's poverty reduction strategy and economic reform programs related to regional
.development and development of the non-oil-sector through improvements of the access of the
 rural population to financial services and improvements in the financial infrastructure 1 The
 project includes three components (C): (Component 1) The Azerpost Platform Component
 was to aim at improving the Azerpost's institutional and service capacity for providing access to
 automated postal and financial services (postal services, money transfers, utility payments,
 pensions, social security payments, etc.) through its regional and post office network2 (at the
 estimated cost ofUSD 15.81 million at appraisal). At appraisal the Project envisioned connecting
 1,200 post offices throughout the country to the Azerpost platform so as to provide these services
 to the population and small businesses in rural and small urban areas. (Component 2): The
 National Payment System Architecture Component was to aim at finalizing the development
 of the national payment system architecture at the Central Bank of Azerbaijan (CBA) by: (i)
 providing a risk management system software to improve safety and security of retail payments;

I The PD~ in Annex 3 of the PAD is defined as: "support economic growth and job creation for the non-oil sector in
smaller urban and rural areas and facilitate financial markets development".
2 The Azerpost network contains: 70 regional offices and 1,538 post offices in cities, rural areas (villages) and rayon
centers (small urban areas).

                                                          4
(ii) creating an interface of the bulk clearing and settlement system (BCSS) to small value
payments (utilities, social security, pensions, taxes, etc.); and (iii) creating an interface of the
Azerpost platform with the BCSS to provide payment services in rural areas (at the estimated
cost ofUSD 1.20 million at appraisal). (Component 3): The Project Management Component
was to aim at helping manage the project by covering incremental operating costs (including
project audits) of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the CBA and in the Technical
Implementation Unit of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology (MoCIT)
(at the estimated cost ofUSD 0.74 million at appraisal).

Progress to date: As of June 30, 2009, the project had disbursed the equivalent ofl)SD
5,564,576 (45% of the Credit) and the total commitments were the equivalent ofUSD 8.84 (72%
of the Credit), including disbursements, planned disbursements under signed contracts and
contracts under procurement. New contracts were being planned for about USD 1.7 million.

The project closing date was extended by one year to June 30,2010 to provide sufficient time to
implement the final phase of the connectivity of the targeted post offices to the Azerpost
headquarters (HQ) under the Component 1. Recent implementation progress and prospects for
satisfactorily achieving the PDO, in particular under the Component 1, warranted by the
upgrading of the ratings for likelihood of achieving the PDO and implementation progress.

The one-year extension resulted mainly from the initial delays under the Component 1 caused by
a lack of qualified staff in the Azerpost to: (a) start the Component 1 implementation; and (b)
engage with the organization and management consultants hired to manage the Component 1
implementation and provide technical assistance (TA)3. The Component 1 implementation was
slow until late 2007 but accelerated substantially in 2008 after the appoint~ent of a new
Azerpost Deputy Director who launched an ambitious change program with the project
assistance. The Component 2 implementation of the non-Azerpost related activities (namely,
mainly the establishment of the centralized utility payment center) started promptly and was
completed, but under the financing of the CBA (see below). Other factors in delaying the
implementation have been the complexity and large size of the contracts financed by the project
as well as the phased connectivity implementation across the whole cQuntry.

In terms of outputs under Component 1, the project financed a 2-year consultancy to strengthen
the Azerpost capacity for providing financial services. The TA focused on strengthening
operations and management of core functions (postal services, money transfer management,
budgeting and performance management, accounting and book keeping, human resource
management, etc.) and new functions (cash and liquidity management, asset management,
account management). Besides internal guidelines and training of staft, the key outputs were the
first full business strategy of the Azerpost for 2009-2011 approved by the MoCIT in November
2008 and the new chart of accounts of the Azerpost. In accordance with the strategy, the
consulting firm helped design and launch the reorganization of the Azerpost which was
completed in the HQ in August 2007 and in the 70 regional offices in January 2008. The 1538
post offices in cities as well as rural areas and rayon centers are expected to be restructured by

3 Low salaries initially made it difficult to attract or retain qualified staff.
4 A Swiss grant (TF091639) became available on March 27, 2008 to assist in the financing of the project cost,
including part of the consultancy and training costs.

                                                         5
the end of September 2009. The project will is also financing the first annual audit of the
Azerpost for end-2008, and going Jorward the end-2009 external audit.

The major investments under the Component 1 are about building the IT infrastructure for
automation and connectivity in the HQ and the regional and post offices and connecting them to
the HQ through different methods (landline, Wi-Fi or satellite), as well as developing application
software for automating core and new business functions. As of now, the project has financed:
(a) mainframe computer hardware for the Azerpost HQ and back-up facility in Sumgait; (b)
hardware and software for the HQ automation; and (c) computer equipment for central regional
offices and post offices in Bakus. Procurement of equipment for automation and connectivity of
the 57 regional offices 6 is ongoing and expected to be completed by the end of 2009. Installation
of the key system - the postal financial services system and postal counter automation system
("the core banking system") - has been ongoing since March 2008 and is expected to be
completed by the end of 2009. The remaining critical procurement includes: (a) computer
equipment for automation of 800 rural post offices (expected to be started upon completion of
the automation of the 57 regional offices); and (b) equipment for landline connection to be
provided by Aztelekom for 746 post offices and for wireless connection for 177 post offices.

Using the old system provided by the MoCIT (postal money orders and collection ofutility
payments), six regional offices and 106 post offices have access to the currently available
automated financial services. Azerpost expects to have the required equipment installed and
connectivity established in all the 70 regional offices and 1029 post offices by about the end of
the first quarter of 2010 7 The postal financial services system and postal counter automation
system ("the core banking system") is expected to be operational in the 70 regional offices and
1029 connected post offices as soon as they are connected to the HQ in phases at the latest by
June 2010. At that time, they will have the ability to provide the available automated financial
services. By early 2010 Azerpost is expecting to receive a restricted or limited purpose banking
license which will allow adding account opening and foreign exchange to its financial services.
Automation and increased outreach are expected to increase Azerpost's revenues and decrease
operational costs. The volume and number of automated financial services has already increased
considerably (see Annex 1).

Under the Component 2, the project financed the work of a consultant to prepare a strategic plan
for further development of the payment system. Based on the consultant's recommendations, the
CBA prepared a state program for improvement and development of modem electronic payment
services in Azerbaijan over the period 2009-2013. The CBA approved the program in December
2008. The government approval is expected by January 2010.




5 This included 250 personal computers placed in Baku, 55 personal computers in Ganja and Sumgait, 115 in other
62 regional offices out of the 450 personal computers procured under the project.
6 This excluded the 13 regional offices in Baku (Post Branch #1, Post Branch #2, Post Branch #3, Post Branch #4,
Post Branch #5, Post Branch #6), Khojaly, Khojavend, Gubadly, Kelbajar, Lachin, Shusha and Zangilan. The total
number of regional offices is 70.
7 The remaining 171 post offices of the 1200 (that was initially envisioned at appraisal as the target group) will be
connected via satellite by the MoeIT on its own funds after the closing date, by late 2010 or early 2011. They are
located in villages or rayon centers (small urban areas) in remote areas.

                                                          6
Two. efthe eriginal sub-cempenents under Cempenent 2 were net implemented under the project
due to. changes during the implementatien. First, under the CBA' s lead, cemmercial banks
implemented infermatien system standards develeped by the CBA that addressed the ebjective
ef the sub-compenent (i) ("providing a risk management system seftware to. improve safety and
security ef retail payments") and no. additienal seftware was needed fer this activity. Secend, the
sub-cempenent (ii) ("creating an interface ef the bulk clearing and settlement system, BCSS, to.
small value payments") was implemented by the CBA in 2006-2008 en its ewn funds.

On July 11, 2008 a new utility payment system - a centralized infermatien system fo.r mass
payments (CISMP) - became eperatienal to. facilitate cellectien efutility payments for the
participants threugh the banking system with different payment instruments. It has a much larger
functienality and capacity than the system eriginally envisiened in the PAD, but cevers the
activities censidered under this sub-cempenents. Currently three main utilities (gas, energy,
water) are cennected to. the CISMP, and there are currently 1.8 millien subscribers in the system.

The CISMP is currently used by 60% efthe cemmercial banks, as well as 106 pest effices ef 6
regienal effices ef Azerpest which are cennected to. the HQ autemated systems. The number ef
average day transactiens precessing threugh the system is appreximately 21,000-25,000. Abeut
91-92% efthe transactiens processing threugh this system is related to. Azerpest SE. The
number ef transactiens precessed threugh the CISMP increased frem 172,000 in December 2008
to. 1.4 millien in May 2009. The CBA plans 100% participatien by cemmercial banks and the
Azerpest's cennected effices by mid-year 2010 and werk is underway to. invelve mere utilities.

The activity under the sub-cempenent (iii) ("the interface ef the Azerpest platferm to. the
BCSS") was implemented with the CBA's internal reseurces (staff suppert) and using the
standard functienal capacity ef Azerpest's new cere banking seftware witheut spending any
financial reseurces (see abeve). This system also. provided the interface fer the real-time gross
settlement system (AZIPS) fer large value payments (the interface to. the AZIPS was net
explicitly mentiened in the PAD). The interface with the BCSS and the AZIPS has been tested
and can be "turned en" after the Azerpest has received a limited banking license. Azerpest
expects to. have the interface beth with the BCSS and the AZIPS eperatienal by March 2010. The


8 Initially the CBA launched procurement of the system to operate a centralized utility payment service center
(APUS, as it was called during the project implementation) based on a feasibility study financed under the Financial
Sector Technical Assistance Credit (No. 3518-AZ). The contract was to be financed partially under the project
financing and mostly on the CBA's own resources. As the bid price of the winning bid for the Credit-financed
portion exceeded the available funding under the Credit and there was pressure to implement the system quickly, the
CBA committed itselfto financing the entire investment. With regards to the functionality of the system, the original
subcomponent envisioned creating only an interface with BCSS, i.e. transmission of information to utility service
companies on the payments processing through the BCSS. Afterwards, the result of the study conducted in this area
showed that mere transmission of information was not satisfactory to these companies and that a new system with
broader functional capacity should be established. Based on the international practices, it was later decided to
establish an electronic bill presentment and payment system. This system has been installed in the Check free i-
Solutions platform used in more than 30 countries in the world and by more than 300 institutions. With regards to
the other small value payments, the Ministry of Finance has a direct link to the BCSS. Social security payments and
pensions do not have a direct interface to the BCSS but are paid by commercial banks through payment cards (there
are plans that the pensions and social security payments would be paid through the Azerpost's offices once Azerpost
will have obtained the necessary payment system infrastructure, licence for providing postal-fmancial services and
agreement among related ministries).

                                                          7
interface to the interbank payment systems will reduce the transaction processing time and costs
for the Azerpost.

Reasons for Restructuring: The restructuring is proposed for three reasons. First, the purpose of
the restructuring would be to: (i) reformulate the PD~, outcome and component indicators to
more closely measure the restructured project outcomes; and (ii) establish new targets. The
current PD~ (and the related indicators), as defined in the datasheet and main text of the PAD
and the Development Credit Agreement, included high level outcomes which depend to a great
extent on efforts outside the project's scope and to which the project's contribution can be
demonstrated only in the long term.

Second, the scope of the Component 2 would be reduced by cancelling the sub-components (i)
(Payment Risk Management System) and (ii) (Interface to Large Non-Bank Systems) from the
project because they were financed outside the project, as explained above. The new Component
2 description would include the assistance that was provided to prepare a strategic plan for
further development of the payment system and the original sub-component (iii) as slightly
defined to reflect changes during implementation ("the interface of the Azerpost platform to the
BCSS and AZIPS''), as described above.

Third, SDR 713,140.07 (or 8.5%) of the original Credit amount would be cancelled for the
following reasons: (a) the project economized Credit proceeds by hiring only one international
consulting company instead of several consultants to carry out the TA activities for Azerpost and
by using the Swiss Grant made available to assist in the financing of the project cost, including
part of the consultancy (TF091639 effective on March 27, 2008); (b) the Component 2 sub-
components (i) and (ii) were implemented outside the project with the CBA's own resources and
the sub-component (iii) was financed as part of the Component 1 activities and the Credit
proceeds were thus not needed; and (c) there were savings under the Component 3 (Project
Management) in building capacity for financial management and reporting, training of staff in
the implementing unit of the MoCIT and carrying out external audits of project accounts.

In addition to the cancellation, minor amounts of Credit proceeds would be reallocated from the
Consultants' Services and Training Categories to the Goods within the Component 1 due to the
savings achieved to broadly achieve the required information technology and communication
infrastructure to provide automated postal-financial services throughout the country.
Subsequently, (i) the financing plan would be revised to include only the beneficiary financing
that is accounted for in the project financial management reports 9 and the availability of the
Swiss Grant (TF091639) effective on March 27, 2008 to support the project; (ii) the project costs
table would be revised to reflect the cancellation and reallocations; and (iii) the disbursement

9 The local fmancing (including Azerpost and CBA) amounts is estimated to amount to $0.741 million compared to
$5.5 million estimated at PAD. The amount of$0.741 million includes the local counterpart funding related to
contracts signed.under the project. The original PAD envisioned that more than $4.1 million would be co-fmanced
by the counterpart for rehabilitation and upgrading of computer room, refurbishment works, preparation of branch
offices for satellite equipment and other related works. During the project execution period, Azerpost SE spent more
than $12 million for construction, repairing works and as well as supplying with furniture and other equipments.
These were not accounted for in the project fmancial management reports.



                                                         8
schedule would be revised to take into account the initial implementation delays and the recently
extended implementation period.                                                            .

Furthermore, the following clarifications would be made to some original intentions of the
Component 1 to align the project design with the realities on the ground and changes during .the
implementation. First, the PAD proposed a number of financial services and business
infrastructure and e-based government services that could be introduced by Azerpost based on
the availability of the new operational system financed by the project.

Thus, the new core banking system will provide the foundation for providing many of these
services, but the Azerpost expects to provide up to four newly automated financial services by
the closing date. Second, the Component 1 description (and the PD~) would be clarified to state
that the project intervention benefits postal offices in rural areas and rayon centers but in cities,
as well, as implied in the PAD. The key developmental impact is still about increasing the access
in rural areas and rayon centers, which most often lack access to financial services.

During the June 2009 supervision mission and subsequent communication, the IDA as well as
Azerpost and the CBA made a thorough assessment of the PD~ and indicators and agreed on a
new draft result framework. In the letter to the Bank dated November 19,2009, the Ministry of
Finance - supported by the MoCIT (Azerpost) and the CBA - formally requested the Bank to
restructure the project and revise the result framework, as well as to formalize the minor changes
in the project.

C. Proposed Changes

Major changes
Revised PDO, key outcome indicators and targets

      The revised PD~ would be to: increase efficient access to financial services in targeted cities,
       rayon centers and rural areas and support adoption of a strategic framework for an efficient
       payment system infrastructure.
      The proposed revised key outcome indicators are shown in Table 1. Annex 1 provides the
       revised results framework with the baseline data and targets.

            .                            . lca
T a ble 1 R eVlsed PD~ an d k ey outcome Ind' t ors
              '
    Revised PD~                              Revised PD~ Indicators
    Increase efficient access to financial   % of targeted (a) cities; (b) rayon centers; and (c) rural areas that have
    services in targeted cities, rayon       access to automated fmancial services provided by the Azerpost
    centers and rural areas and support      Volume of automated financial services provided by Azerpost
    adoption of a strategic framework for    Number of automated financial services transactions provided by
    an efficient payment system              Azerpost
    infrastructure                           Cost efficiency demonstrated by the reduction in the fee charged by an
                                             agent bank to Azerpost for: (a) ATM and over-the-counter withdrawals;
                                             and (b) domestic money transfer
                                             Productivity of Azerpost measured as revenues / number of staff
                                             Status of the strategic framework for reducing the share of cash-based
                                             payment transactions in the economy

                                                             9
Component level changes

   The Component 2 the sub-components (i) (Payment Risk Management System) and (ii)
    (Interface to Large Non-Bank Systems) would be cancelled.
    The Component 2 description (or Part B) in the Development Credit Agreement would be
    changed, as follows:
    "Part B: Development of a strategy for electronic payment services modernization and
    foundation for a state program, acceptable to the Association, through provision of
    consultants' services and support for integration of the Azerpost with the bulk clearing and
    settlement system (BCSS) and the real time gross settlement system (AZIPS)."
   Component level outcomes, indicators and targets would be changed, as shown in Annex 1.
   SDR 713,140.07 of the Credit proceeds would be cancelled (the cancellation became
    effective as of November 24, 2009). The amounts cancelled from categories and the amounts now
    allocated to the different categories are shown in Table 2 below.

Proposed minor changes

   Reallocation of the proceeds of the Credit, as set out in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule I
    to the Development Credit Agreement, as follows: SDR 192,897.51 from Category "(2) (a)
    Consultants' Services including Audit Costs for Part A" to Category "(1) (a) Goods for Part A"
    and SDR 78,910.46 from Category "(3) (a) Training for Part A" to Category "(1) (a) Goods
    fot Part A".
   Accordingly, the amounts now allocated to the different categories based on the reallocation
    and previously mentioned cancellation are as follows 1o :




                                                    . +271,807.97                o             6,871,807.97




10 % of expenditures to be financed would remain the same as in the already amended Development Credit
Agreement.
11 ISDR=1.555230 USD (17.07.09)


                                                      10
    The Component 1 description and activities (or Part A) would be changed in the
     Development Credit Agreement, as follows:
        "Part A: Capacity building of Azerpost to provide financial services in order to improve
        access to newly automated financial services in cities, rayon centers (small urban areas)
        and rural areas (villages), including interconnectivity of its regional and local offices,
        through provision of goods, consultants' services and training."             .
    The project financing would be revised, as follows:

Table 3. The original and revised PAD financing plan (USD million equivalent) (June 30,




    The project costs would be revised, as follows:

Table 4. Original and revised PAD total project costs by component (USD million




    Component 2          0.25                   0.95                     1.20               0.055
    Payment
    System

    Component 3          0.38                   0.36                     0.74               0.162
    Project




    The estimated disbursement schedule for the Credit would be revised, as follows:

Table 5. Revised disbursement estimates for the Credit (Bank fiscal year) (USD) (June 30,
2009)
    FY (July - June)    2005          2006             2007       2008            2009        2010
    Annual                0          317,055       688,888     1,388,188        3,420,446   4,711,967
    Cumulative            0          317,055      1,005,943    2,394,131        5,814,577   10,526,544




                                                 11
D. Analysis

The proposed changes do not have a major effect on the original economic, technical,
institutional, environmental, and social aspects of the project, neither do they change project
implementation, procurement and financial arrangements. They also do not affect the
environmental category of the project or trigger new safeguard policies. The restructuring does
not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

It should be noted that there have been changes in the technical connectivity solution and
deployment costs estimates for Azerpost network, as envisioned in the PAD. They have had a
positive impact on the implementation of the project. Thus, Azerpost and the MoCIT decided to
use different connection methods (landline, Wi-Fi and broadband satellite) instead of only
broadband satellite solution envisioned in the PAD because it was identified that using various
connectivity methods would be more cost-effective rather than applying only satellite for the
whole country (under the Credit financing). In addition to these savings, savings accrued also
from the financing of the site preparation of the regional offices and post offices by the borrower.
These savings have enabled procuring, i.e., a more comprehensive postal financial services
system and postal counter automation system than described in the PAD and covering prices
increases in the equipment procured under the project.

E. Expected Outcomes

The proposed changes in the PDOs and Component 2 and the proposed refined Component 1
outcomes are reflected in a revised set of key outcome and intermediate outcome indicators and
targets of the project (see Annex 1). The main project outcome - increased efficient access to
financial services in targeted cities, rayon centers and rural areas - has been highlighted in the
original PAD. The other outcome - adoption of a strategic framework for an efficient payment
system infrastructure - represents an update of the payment systems reform strategy which the
project has helped implement by assisting the connectivity of Azerpost and providing its
interface to the payment system. The Azerpost and the CBA will report on the project
implementation progress based on these indicators quarterly during the remaining
implementation period.

F. Benefits and Risks

The expected benefits from the proposed changes are that: (i) the newly formulated indicators
and targets would help monitor the project progress to achieve the more appropriate formulated
PD~ during the last year of supervision; and (ii) the project design (including the PD~,
indicators and targets) correctly reflects changes that happened during the implementation and
allows a better basis for evaluation of the results to which the project contributed.

There are three main risks to achieving the PD~ by the end of the closing date. First, the
Azerpost post office staff would not be sufficiently well equipped to provide financial services
according to the software capacities. This key operational risk is mitigated by a reduction of
Azerpost staff levels, new training provided to the remaining staff and the introduction of


                                                 12
automated financial services, largely eliminating the need for supporting paper transactions.
Second, connectivity provided at the post offices might not prove reliable or satisfactory to meet
the needs of Azerpost. This risk is mitigated through the MoCIT's detailed connectivity mapping
and periodic testing of the line quality of each office to be connected. Third, services provided by
the headquarters experience some internal control failures which create losses or force Azerpost
not to fulfill its contractual obligations. These key risks are largely mitigated through staff
training, internal control systems, internal and external auditing.




                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                                     Annex 1
                                                                           Result Framework
Project Development                                  PDO Indicators                                Baseline           Progress            Proposed        Responsibility for data
Objective (PDO)                                                                                  (12/3112005)      (6/29/2009 unless       Targets        collection; frequency of
                                                                                                                       otherwise
                                                                                                                      mentioned)
                                                                                                                                        (06/30/2010)      reporting
Increase efficient access       % of targeted (a) cities; (b) rayon centers; and (c) rural             0          (a) 50%; (b) 0;      (a) 100%; (b)      Project implementing unit in
to financial services in        areas that have access to automated financial services                            (c) 0                100%; (c)          the CBA & Azerpost; quarterly
targeted cities, rayon          provided by Azerpost 12                                                                                                   (as part of submitting the
                                                                                                                                       80%13
centers and rural areas_and                                                                                                                               quarterly fmancial monitoring
                               Volume of automated financial services provided by                 35,658,000         182,125,361          240,833,000
support adoption of a                                                                                                                                     and procurement report)
                               Azerpost (in current Azerbaijani manat)                           (05/3112006)       (05/31/2009)         (05/31/2010)
strategic framework for an
                               Number of automated financial services transactions                17,683,662         20,521,450            23,533,300
efficient payment system
                               provided by Azerpost                                              (05/3112006)       (05/31/2009)         (05/3112010)
infrastructure
                               Cost efficiency demonstrated by the reduction in the fee         (a) 0.4%; (b)     (a) 0.2%; (b)        (a) 0; (b)         Project implementing unit in
                               charged by an agent bank to Azerpost for: (a) ATM and            0.1%              0.1 % (whereby       0.005% for         the CBA & CBAIAzerpost;
                               over-the-counter withdrawals; and (b) domestic money             (whereby          the Azerpost         BCSS transfers     quarterly (as part of submitting
                               transfer                                                         Azerpost's        and Kapital          and 0.043%         the quarterly financial
                                                                                                in-house          bank in-house        (maxAZN 43)        monitoring and procurement
                                                                                                transfers are     transfers are        for AZIPS          report)
                                                                                                free of           free of charge)      transfers
                                                                                                charge)
                               Productivity of Azerpost measured as revenuesl number                  927               1,163                2,176
                               of staff                                                         (5/31/2005)       (05/3112009)         (5/31/2010)                                           I
                               Status of the strategic framework for reducing the share           Strategy for        The state            The state      Pwjoct implomonting unit in        I
                               of cash-based payment transactions in the economy                    payment            program             program        the CBA & CBA; quarterly (as
                                                                                                     system        prepared and        approved by the    part of submitting the quarterly
                                                                                                  reform for        approved by          government!      financial monitoring and
                                                                                                  2005-2008          the Central         (0113112010)     procurement report)
                                                                                                   needed an            Bank
                                                                                                     update        (12/31/2008)
                                                                                                 (06/30/2007)

Component: Result              Component outcome indicators                                       Baseline           Progress            Proposed         Project implementing unit in
                                                                                                (12/3112005)      (6/2912009 unless       Targets         the CBA & Azerpost; quarterly
                                                                                                                      otherwise


12 Azerpost does not currently provide any postal services in the Autonomous Republic ofNakhchivan which is part of Azerbaijan. At present, this issue is being resolved with
MoCIT.
13 At appraisal, the project planned to connect the 1200 existing post offices within the Azerpost network, including 213 post offices in cities, 107 post offices in

rayon centers (small urban areas) and 880 post offices in villages (rural areas). Out of these 1200 post offices, 1029 are to be connected to the Azerpost by the
closing date of the project under the project financing (including 213 post offices in cities, 107 post offices in rayon centers and 709 post offices in villages). The
remaining 171 (1200-1029) post offices in remote areas will be connected by the end of2010 and early 2011 via satellite by the MoCIT on its own funds, starting
from the closing date of the project. Most of 238 post offices which were left outside the project (1538-1200) have connectivity and outreach problem. In addition
to this, in the initial stage, inhabitants of those post offices situated regions will be served by neighboring post offices.
                                                                                      14
                                                                                                                                   mentioned)      (06/30/2010)      (as part of submitting' the
                                                                                                                                                                     quarterly fmandal monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                     and procurement report)
Component 1: Azerpost         Status of the first full institutional development plan /                            Lackofa       Approved by      Implementation
Platform                      business strategy                                                                    strategy       the MoCIT           ongoing
                                                                                                                                 (11116/2008)        (Azerpost
Strengthen the capacity                                                                                                                            profits will be
and efficiency of the                                                                                                                              162,000AZN               ,
operations of Azerpost                                                                                                                            according to the
(headquarters and regional                                                                                                                           approved
offices) for providing                                                                                                                                strategy)
newly automated fmancial      Status of restructuring the Azerpost headquarters,                                   Need to       Headquarters     Restructured all
services                      regional offices and post offices whereby restructuring                            restructure     restructured     units (including
                              is defined as completed implementation of the new                                  Azerpostto      (08/20/2007);       1538 post
                              organizational model as per the HQ structure, structure                             improve         70 regional         offices)
                              of the regional offices and post offices (closed and                               efficiency          offices      (September 31,
                              merged post offices, reduced redundant staff)                                                       restructured         2009)
                                                                                                                                 (0113112008)
                              Cumulative number of regional offices with the ability
                              to provide newly automated financial services (these are
                              post offices have the required IT equipment,                                                            6 14              70 15
                                                                                                                      0
                              connectivity and postal financial services and postal                                              (06/29/2009)
                              counter automation systems operational)
                              Cumulative number of types of newly automated                                           0                0                4"
                              financial services available l6                                                                                                                                           ,


Component 2: National         Progress in making the "interface of the Azerpost with                             N o interface    The interface    Connection to     Project implementing unit in
payment system                the BCSS and AZIPS operational 18                                                  (12/3112006)      successfully     the BCSS I9      the CBA & CBAIAzerpost;
infrastructure                                                                                                                   developed and     and the AZIPS     quarterly (as part of submitting
                                                                                                                                      tested         operational     the quarterly financial
  Integrated the Azerpost                                                                                                         (03/3112009)       (March 31,      monitoring and procurement
   with the BCSS (bulk                                                                                                                                 2010)         report)
  clearing and settlement     Status ofthe consultancy for developing a strategy for                             TOR for the      The report         The report
 system) and AZIPS (real-     electronic payment services modernization and                                      consultancy     delivered by     delivered by the
                                                               --_ .. _----_ .. _ - - - - - - - - - - - -




14  This includes six Baku regional offices with newly supplied computer equipments and core banking system under the project.
IS  This is the total number of regional post offices.
 16 The indicator measures the number of automated financial services provided using the new postal financial services and postal counter automation system
.financed by the project (''the core banking system"). Azerpost provides currently two types of automated financial services - postal money orders and collection of
 utility payments - using an old system provided by the MoCIT. These services are not included in the baseline neither in the progress.
 17 This includes postal money orders, utilities payments, account opening and foreign exchange (the latter two upon receipt of the banking licenses expected by
 October 2009).
 18 The operational conditions include implementation of the connectivity of Azerpost, installation of the postal financial services and postal counter automation
 system and receipt of the banking license by Azerpost.
 19 Connection to the BCSS requires that Azerpost has obtained a banking license from the CBA and that it has resolved some legal and technical issues.

                                                                                                            15
 time gross settlement      supporting a state program            final      the consultant   consultant to
        system)                                               (06/31/2007)   to the Central    the Central
                                                                                 Bank            Bank
Completed a consultancy                                                      (07/31/2008)     (07/31/2008)
to develop a strategy for
   electronic payment
 services modernization
   and support a state
         program




                                                         16
