CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 263 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 12, 1971


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 263 TUN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 12, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1971, between REPUBLIC
oF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIuTION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Banque Nationale de
Tunisie (hereinafter called BNT), respectively, have re-
quested the Association and the Bank to assist in the finan-
cing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and BNT (hereinafter called the Loan Agree-
ment) the Bank has agreed to make a loan to BNT in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Borrower agrees to guarantee the obligations of BNT in
respect of such loan;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Guaran-
tee Agreement) the Borrower has agreed so to guarantee
the obligations of BNT; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to


﻿4
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the dele-
tion of Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to the renum-
bering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars
($3,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed under the De-
velopment Credit Agreement; provided, however, that,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no with-
drawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services,supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿5
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1975 or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/ 4of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 -and September 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each March 15 and September 15 commencing Septem-
ber 15, 1981 and ending March 15, 2021 each installment
to and including the installment payable on March 15,
1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such prin-
cipal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (11/%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.09. The Director General of BNT is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause BNT to duly
and punctually perform all obligations provided to be
performed by it pursuant to Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04,
3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08,


﻿6
5.01, 5.02 and 5.03 of the Loan Agreement with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein;
provided, however, tha t: (i) all references to the Bank in
such Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be refer-
ences to the Association, and (ii) all references in such
Sections or in any of them to the Loan shall be deemed to
be references to the Credit.
SECTION 3.02.  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07,
3.08, 4.01 and 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, how-
ever, that: (i) all references to the Guarantor in such
Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be references
to the Borrower, (ii) all references to the Bank in such
Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be references
to the Association, (iii) all references to the Borrower in
such Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be
references to BNT, and (iv) all references to the Loan in
such Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be
references to the Credit.
SECTION 3.03. So long as any part of the Loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds shall remain
outstanding and unpaid, all actions taken, including a.p-
provals given, by the Bank pursuant to the Sections of the
Loan Agreement enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment, or pursuant to the Sections of the Guarantee Agree-
ment enumerated in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, shall
be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on behalf
of both the Bank and the Association; and all information
furnished by the Borrower or BNT to the Bank pursuant
to the provisions of such Sections, shall be deemed to be
furnished to both the Bank and the Association.
SECTION 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
or the equivalent thereof to BNT on the following terms:


﻿7
(i) interest at 1% per annum on the principal amount out-
standing from time to time 'and (ii) amortization in fifteen
years including five years of grace.
ARTICLE IV
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 4.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTIoN 4.03. The payment of the principal of, and
service charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event -specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 5.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such decla-
ration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
0


﻿8
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified: (a) Any part of the principal amount of any
loan to BNT having an original maturity of one year or
more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due
and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the rela-
tive contractual instruments, or any security for any such
loan shall have become enforceable.
(b) The BNT Statutes shall have been amended or re-
pealed so as to affect materially and adversely the opera-
tions or financial condition of BNT.
(c) A change, which in the judgment of the Association
would materially and adversely affect the objectives, finan-
cial condition or operations of the BNT, shall have been
made in the Statement of Policy without the Association's
consent.
(d) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by BNT, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the con-
duct of the BNT's business or BNT's operations or finan-
cial situation or the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions the following events are specified: (a)
Any event specified in Section 5.02 (a), (b) or (c) shall
occur.
(b) The event specified in Section 5.02 (d) of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of . tion 10.01 (b)


﻿9
of the General Conditions: (a) The terms and conditions
for the relending of the proceeds of the Credit, or the
equivalent thereof, in accordance with Section 3.04 of this
Agreement shall have been accepted and agreed upon by
the Borrower and BNT; and
(b) The conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, subject only to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association: The relending
agreement referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement is
valid and binding on the part of the Borrower and BNT.
SECTION 6.03. The date October 15, 1971 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.04. The provisions of the Sections of the Loan
Agreement enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
and of the Sections of the Guaranteo Agreement enumer-
ated in Section 3.02 of this Agreemew,  -ept Sections 4.01
and 4.02, and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall terminate on the date when the entire proceeds of
the Credit shall have been repaid by BNT to the Borrower
in accordance with the agreement entered into between
them pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement or on the
date when the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agree-
ment and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
terminate, whichever is later.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 7.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿0
10
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre du Plan
Ministere du Plan
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable addresss:
Ministre du Plan
1Rue de B6ja
Tunis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 II Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ SLAHEDDINE EL GOULLI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's agricultural lend-
ing program for commercial farmers investing in grain
farm mechanization and dairy farm development in North-
ern Tunisia and for STIL investing in date palm develop-
ment in Southein Tunisia, and consists of the following:
Part A: The provision of medium- and long-term sub-
loans to assist the said farmers in fiancing investments in
on-farm  improvements including land preparation, ma-
chinery and equipment, planting materials, livestock and
other agricultural inputs, for the development and expan-
sion of their farms for the production ef the aforemen-
tioned commodities, and the provision of long-term sub-
loans to assist STIL in developing date-palm plantations
in Southern Tunisia, including groundwater development,
irrigation and drainage network, land preparation, nursery
stock, transplanting and maintenance of windbreak trees
and date palms, machinery and equipment, buildings for
field office, storage, and packaging, and housing for staff
and permanent laborers.
Part B: The provision of experts to train and supervise
the technical staff of the Borrower's Agricultural Credit
Division and of STIL's technical staff engaged in date-
palm operations, and vehicles for technical services.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the
allocation of amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each
category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to
be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Loan and the Credit
Allocated
(Expressed in     % of Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
I. Disbursements actually                  75% of such
effected by the Borrower                  disbursements
on account of sub-loans
for investments in:
(A) Grain farms             6,000,000
(B) Dairy farms               980,000
(C) Date-palm plantations     810,000
II. Salaries and other                      100% of foreign
expenditures approved by                  exchange
the Bank for the experts                  expenditures
referred to in Part B of
the Project and vehicles
for technical services        210,000
TOTAL         8,00000
2. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of this Agree-
ment, and shall be applied to expenditures incurred under
any sub-category or category hereof until the total with-
drawals and commitments in respect of -such expenditures
shall have reached the equivalent of $3,000,000.
3. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan


﻿S
13
Agreement and shall be -applied to expenditures incurred
under any sub-category or category hereof, provided,
however, that such amount shall only be applied to expendi-
tures incurred after the amount of the Credit shall have
been fully withdrawn or committed.
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and
3 above:
(i) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(ii) no withdrawal shall be made under Category I in
respect of any sub-loan made by the Borrower ex-
ceeding $100,000 cquivalent principal amount unless
the Bank and the Association shall have approved
the making of such sub-loan.
5. If the estimate of the disbursements or expenditures
under any sub-category or category shall decrease, the
amount of the Loan and the Credit then allocated to, and
no longer required for, such sub-category or category will
be reallocated, at the request of the Borrower, to any other
sub-category or category, subject, however, to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Bank and the
Association, in respect of the items in the other sub-
categories or category.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. Contracts for drilling and construction for deep wells
for date-palm plantations under Schedule 2, I(C) shall be
awarded on the basis of international competition under
procedure consistent with the Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published
by the Bank in August 1969.
With regard to said contracts the Borrower shall send
to the Bank and to the Association:
(a) copies of tender documents for comments before bids
are called for; and
(b) analysis of the bids and the Borrower's recommen-
dations for approval by the Bank and the Asso-
ciation.
2. The Bank and the Association agree however, that con-
tracts to be executed before the end of August 1971 for
drilling and construction of four deep wells in the Project
area be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's pro-
curement procedures and not to exceed in the aggregate
D 50,000. Copies of such contracts would be transmitted
to the Bank and the Association upon award.


