Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No- 8377
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1207-BEN)
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
T1.s db omeut bus a restricted ditribution and may be wsed by recipients only In the performance of
their offkcl duties. Its conitents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY RXCPB GE RATES
Name of Currency:      'Communaut6 Financnire Africalnef Franc (CAPF)
Years
Appraisal Year Average (1981)                              SDRI - 334.52
Intervening Years Average                                  SDRI - 417.61
Completion Year Average (1987)                             SMU  - 378.78
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
RIB           European Investment Bank
GOB           Government of Benin
OBEZINES      Office Beninois des Mines et de l'Energie
SEP           SAGA Benin Development S. A.
SDB           Service des Hydrocarbures
SPE           SAGA Petroleum Benin S.A.
Unocal        Union Oil of California
STB           Stock-tank barrels (Q surface conditions)
PANOCO        PanOcean Oil Company
H



TO* WORLD SANK                          w           y
WhWomE. DC *0433
U.S A
Oft we M u,-GIa(wal
February 6, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PaE IDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Blenin
Petroleum Sector Technieal Aasiqntanee Projeet (Credlt 1207 -lEN
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled Project
Completion Report on Benin - Petroleum Sector Techniical Assistance Project
(Credit 1207-BEN)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This dosmont hUa mutW dltloe ad a" be Wd "b asipis alp In th p_wf m
of thei   Olde   Its emm msv ew om   ba dfs without We* %ft a Wia si



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CO0PLHTION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OP BRVIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
CREDIT 1207-BEN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .....................................................                      i
Basic Data Sheet                  ..ii
Highlights ..                                                                      v
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                                   1
II. PROJECT ORIGIN - PREPARATION - APPRAISAL .                    .               6
Origin of the Project.. .                                                 6
Project Preparation and Appraisal                  .        .             6
III. DMPLEMENTATION                           ...    8
Implementation Plan   8.             .......... .8
Changes in Project Schedule and Scope              ...                   10
Reporting and Auditing                  . . .10
Project Costs                         ...    11
Disbursements                  ...12
Performance of Consultants. .                                            13
Performance of Contractors . . .13
IV. PROJECT RESULTS    ..14
Technical Assistance    .                      .14
Petroleum Ezploration Promotion   .                  .14
Engineering Studies.                                                     15
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                    . . .16
Organization and Management                . . .16
*t14 BANK PERORMNCE. .17
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .18
ANNEXES
1.   Project Costs .....                                ...                      19
2.  Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements .20
3. Contract Implementation Schedule .21
ATTACHMENTS
1. Comments from Cofinancier .23
2. Comments from Consultant .25
ltis document hasa restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performapce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



POECT COMPLETION REPORT
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIXT 1207-BEN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for a technical
assistance project for the petroleum sector in Benin (then Dahomey), which
the IDA helped finance vith Credit 1207-BEN (US$8.0 million). The Borrower
was the Government and the beneficiary was OBEMINES, Off.ce Beninois des
Mines, which is the Government agency responsible for developing the mining
and hydrocarbon resources of the country.
OBEMINES completed the project with only minor changes and some
tine overrun. During the period of project execution (1981-1987), the
financial and technical performance of this agency improved considerably,
reaching a level higher than expected at appraisal.
Approval of the Credit Agreement occurred on February 16, 1982;
signing, on February 19, 1982; and effectiveness, on July 22, 1982. The
final Closing Date was December 31, 1986 (as compared with the original
Closing Date of June 30, 1984).
The Industry and Energy Division of the Africa Technical
Department prepared this report based on an incomplete set of reports, data
and documents in the Africa Information Center files, without, however, the
benefit of a Government prepared completion report.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers for comments and
they are attached to the Report (Attachments 1 and 2).



- ii -
PROJECT COMPETIN REPORT
BENI
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1207-BSEN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual or      Actual as S
Appraisal      Current        of Appraisal
Item                              Exvectation    Estimate          Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)       9.95          n.a.*           n.a.
cost overrun (t)                     -             n.a.            n.a.
Credit Amount (SDR million)            7.0           7.0             100
Disbursed                            7.0           7.0             100
Cancelled                            -       $15,291.11              0
Date Physical Component Completed                   03.19.84
Proportion Completed by that date S35            100               100
(1)    Training                               0611985          100
(2)    Exploration                            (03/1985)         80
(3)    Engineering Studies
Economic Rate of Return (Z)
Financial Performance                Satisfactory              Good
Institutional Performance            Satisfactory              Good
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR million)
PY82     FY83     FY84      FY85     FY86    FY87
Appraisal Estimate               2.8      6.3       7.0      -        -
Actual                            .4      1.6       3.5      5.9      6.9      7.0
Actual as S of Appraisal        16.3     25.0      49.6      -        -        -
Date of Final Disbursement: July 17, 1987
* The total foreign expenditures of the project were equivalent to SDR 6.985
million. However, local expenditures are not known because they were not
accounted (paras. 3.13-3.15).



- IU. -
PROJECT DATES
Item                           Original Plan       Revisions       Actual
First Mention in Piles                                             11/19177
Negotiations                     04/05,81            11.81           12/81
Board Approval                   06107,81          01.19.82          02/82
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)                                      02/82
Effectiveness                                        04.82           07/82
Closing Date                     06.30.84          06.30.85          12/86
STAPF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY '82  PY '83  FY '84  PY '85  PY '86  PY '87  Total
Identification
Preparation    10.0                                                10.0
Appraisal          7.4                                                7.4
Negotiations       4.2                                                4.2
Supervision       9.0    16.7    20.9    27.3    15.9       3.2      93.0
Subtotal       30.6    16.7    20.9    27.3    15.9       3.2    114.6
MISSION DATA
Date       No. of  Specialization Performance           Type of
(MoIYr)     Persons  Represented      RatLnl      Trend Problems
Identification  08/1979         2
Preparation     03,06/1980      3                                    -      -
Appraisal       0411981         3                                           -
Post Appraisal
Supervision 1   06/1981         3
2    ?/1981        3
3   03/1982        3
4   09/1982        4
5   04/1983        4
6   06/1983        1
7   0711983        1
8   10/1983         1
9   0711984         4
10   1111984        1
11   11/1984         4
12   03/1985        2        PA. PE           1          1
13   03/1985        1        PA               2          1
14   0511985         3       PA, PE           -
15   06/1985        2        PA, PZ           1          1
16   03/1986        3



- iv -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                     People's Republic of Benin
Executinlg Agency                            OBEUINES/HIMK
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                01.01-12.31
Follow-On Project                            Seme Oilfield Phase II
Development Project
Credit Number                                1503-BEN
Amount (SDR million)                         17.2
Approval Date                                July 26, 1984



- v 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PETROLEUM  SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1207-BEM-
HIGNLIGUTS
1.       The IDA credit under review in the amount of SDR 7.0 million
(US$8.0 million equivalent) helped finance a technical assistance project
in the petroleum sector to train Beninese personnel in oilfield operations
and petroleum exploration, promote exploration by foreign oil companies,
and lay the basis for the future second phase development of the Seme
field. The beneficiary of the credit was OBEMINES, the Office Beninois des
Mines et de l'Energie.
7.       At project appraisal, Benin had no domestic petroleum production
and no refinery. All products were imported (118,000 tons), mostly from
Algeria which offers more attractive CIP prices than neighboring Nigeria.                =
The recorded import bill was about US$ 38 million, but the smuggling from
Nigeria probably amounted to another 20 percent.  The small size of the
market and the proximity tv refineries in Nigeria and C.Ote d'Ivolre do not
warrant the installation of a refinery. Succesk1ul oil exploration
resulted in the discovery of the Seme offshore field in 1968 by Union Oil
of California (UNOCAL).  The field had not been put on production because
the COB refused Union Oil's development scheme (1973).  The company then
pulled out of Dahomey, now Benin.  Other interested companies did not agree
to pay the large front-end signature bonus requested by the GOB because
there was no schem that could develop the field and yield a reasonable
rate of return, given the prevailing crude prices (US$1.80/bbl).
3.       Finally, following a study on Seme's development financed by
NORAD, Norway's bilateral aid agency, the GOB decided to develop the field
on its own, and signed in May 1979, a service contract with the authors of
the study, SAGA Petroleum, a private Norwegian oil company eager to act as
operator for the first time in their existence. The cost of field
development was financed initially by a consortium of Norwegian and British
financial institutions and subsequently by the proceeds of crude oil sales.
Benin borrowed about US$130 million at an average interest rate of 7S. The
original contract with SAGA, however, was unbalanced, in that Benin assumed
all the risks while SAGA operated on a cost-plus basis. The terms of the
contract vere later renegotiated.



- vi -
4.       The Bank project was identified and appraised when Seme's initial
development was about to be undertaken. It had two main objectivess
(a)   laying the basis for the future second phase development of
Seme field through training Beninese personnel and
evaluating the applicability of secondary recovery methods
to the field, and
(b)   assisting the GOB to promote the sedimentary basin free
acreage to the oil industry.
5.       The project consisted of the following five components:
(a)   construction of a training centers
(b) training for about 220 Beninese personnel who would
eventually operate the Seae field (in drilling and
production operations);
tc)   training of six Beninese professionals during 1981-1984 to
build a team capable of advising the GOB on technical,
economic and legal matters related to petroleum exploration;
sd)   promotion of exploration acreage; and
se)   consulting seriices to evaluate whether secondary recovery
methods would apply to the Seme field, and if warranted,
prepare detailed engineering of the facilities.
6.       While IDA was processing the credit, the GOB decided to appoint
the Seme Operator, SAGA also as its exploration advisor. After some
debate, IDA decided to agree with this decision. SAGA's exploration
promotion efforts were later supplemented by those of other consultants
selected according to IDA's procedures, who reviewed the petroleum
legislation, drafted a model contract, and participated in the prevaration
of promotion of the available acreage. The leading management consulting.
firm, while internationally well-known, had, however, limited specific
experience with the promotion of oil and gas exploration in LDCs.
7.       Project implementation had a normal start thanks to the dedication
of Beninese officers and the assistance of SAGA which had a prime interest
in moving the project swiftly. All the funds but SDR 15,291 (or around
US$20,000) were disbursed.
8.       Subsurface information concerning the Benin Coastal Basin not
including the Seme field block were assembled, organized and compiled to
serve as a database for the basin's geological study prepared by outside
consultants.



- vii -
9.       Although not all the project components were equally successful,
the two basic objectives of the project were achieveds Beninese nationals
were suitably trained in view of assisting with the development of Seme
field; and the preparation for promoting the adjoining free acreage was
adequately completed, includiw a review of the petroleum law and a
geologlical evaluation of the basin's potential.
10.      However, one of the expected outcomes of the project, namely the
promotion of exploration investments in the available acreage in Benin's
sedimentary basin, did not materialize. This was because, (a) the work
preparatory to the promotion took much longer than planned and (b) before
it was completed the Government arbitrarily decided in 1985, to rescind the
contract with SAGA, its exploration advisor and the operator of the Seme
field, and to give a blanket concession on the entire territory to a
newcomer, PANOCO. This put an end to all other oil companies' interest in
Benin. The situation has since been corrected following PANOCO's failure
to deliver and its departure from Benin in May 1986, largely as a result of
pressures exercised by IDA.
11.      Lessons.  The key lessons to be derived from this project, ares
(a)    unbalanced contractual arrangements between the host
country and an oil field operator can lead to the
disruption of the project, as was the case with the
original SAGA contract. By agreeing to finance the
Techlical Assistance project related to Seme development,
IDA implicitly approved the SAGA contract without weighing
the consequences with sufficient cares even the
renegotiation of fairer terms did not prevent the
Government's rescission of the contract to the detriment of
the IDA-financed technical assistance project, and to the
subsequent field development project;
(b)    the functions of oil field operator and of exploration
promotion advisor, which for this project were both carried
out by SAGA, should be entrusted to independeut companies
to avoid conflicts of interest;l
(c)    strict adherence to the letter a.d the spirit of the Bank
procurement guidelines is especially important in selecting
consulting firms to promote petroleum exploration, a task
for which extensive experience on a world-wide basis is
absolutely essential. The acceptance by the Bank of the
abridged procedure by which GOB appointed its consultants
led to this critical function being entrusted to firms
which did not meet these prerequisites;
1/ SAGA has suh%sequently commented that they do not agree with this
assessment, and that the company abstained from bidding during the
concession round to avoid any conflIct of interest.



- viii -
(d)    the eftectiveness of Bank supervision is greatly affected
by the continuLty of the staff assigned to it, and their
technical competence in the specific fields  exploration
promotion projects should be supervised by an
expiorationist, preferably the same through the life of the
project. This has not been the case for the project under
review;
(e)    it is esseatial that supervision missions follow-up on the
bc-ower's commitment to keep good project accounts, also
as regards the borrower's share of costs: for this project
there is no trace of the govexment's expenditures.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PETROLEpM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 1207-BEN)
I - INTRODUCTION
Eneray Recource Base
1.01     Benin's energy situation is characterized by heavy dependence on
imported petroleum products and electricity in order to meet commercial
requirements. Benin's energy resources are limited, its forests being
rapidly depleted, and the country having no coal deposits. The only known
hydrocarbon resource is the Seme field located some 16 km offshore.
Furthermore, there is no hydropower plant in operation, although several
potential sites have been reconnoitered, which could yield as much as 750
GWh per year. Renewable energy sources such as solar or agricultural
wastes might become significant, but they are not now commercially
utilized.
1.02     At project appraisal, the economy was showing some improveients.
Although Benin enjoyed an average Lanual real GDP growth rate of 4.5
percent and a sound financial position over the 1976-80 period, it remained
a poor country with a GNP per capita of $320 p.a., and a population of 3.4
million (1980). Between 1976 and 1980, exports of goods-and non-factor
services increased from $103 million to $243 million, but because of an
even higher rise in imports and deteriorating terms of trade, the resource
gap remained at about 20 percent of GDP. Agriculture which generates about
45 percent of GDP, has stagnated since 1970. With respect to export crops,
cotton which peaked in 1972 at 50,000 tons has now fallen to around 20,000
tons. Palm oil production continued to increase until the mid-1970's, but
output has slackened somewhat.
1.03     Because of low per capita income and an undeveloped industrial
sector, energy consumption is among the lowest in the world (190 kg of oil
equivalent per capita in 1980). Traditional fuels, wood and charcoal,
satisfy 72 percent of domestic needs, the rest being met by importel
petroleum products (24 percent) and electricity which is 92 percent
imported.
1.04     Bank Group operations in Benin total USS124.4 million through 13
credits for agriculture (4 projects and 27 percent of lending) road
construction/maintenance (six project and 47 percent), and one each for
port expansion, education and development of small-scale enterprises.
1.05     The project under review mas the first lending operation in the
petroleum sector of Benin. Natural resources in energy were little
developed at time of appraisal. Hydropower sites were inventoried but



- 2 -
there was no project for their development. Petroleum was discovered in
the offshore Seme field in 1968 but the field was put on stream only in
October 1982, and the production rate attained around 7,000 bld in early
1984. The reserves are deemed sufficient to last some 14 years at an
average rate of 5,000 b/d. Efforts were made to promote the areas
surrounding Seme field, but only scant exploration took place and no
discovery has been recorded so far, for the prolific Niger delta basin does
not extend into Benin. However, Benin's geology has its own merits and
there is scope to promote its petroleum potential.
Institutional and Legal Framework
1.06     A number of Government entities participate in energy policy
making. The Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy supervises a public
enterprise - Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE) and the Office
Beninois des Mines (OBEMINES), the parastatal responsible for developing
the mining and hydrocarbon resources of the country. The Ministry of
Commerce supervises Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Produits
Petroliers (SONACOP), a state enterprise with the monopoly to import,
transport and distribute petroleum products. The Ministry of State Farms,
Livestock and Fisheries supervises Societe Nationale pour le D6veloppement
Forestier (SNAFOR), which is in charge of developing forestry products
including fuelwood and charcoal. The Ministries of Finance and of Planning
play also a role in energy matters (taxation and public investment plans).
Finally, energy prices are set by a Price Committee which draws
representatives from various ministries and political organizations.
1.07     Responsibility for petroleum exploration and production rests with
the Service des Hydrocarbures (SDH), which is part of the Office Beninois
des Mines (OBEMINES). This last entity, which is in charge of developing
the mining and hydrocarbon resources of the country, belongs to the
Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy. The SDH staff which lacked proper
expertise to supervise oil exploration and a petroleum development project,
needed strengthening to implement its tasks.
1.08     Contractual and Fiscal Framework.  The initial petroleum
legislation of Dahomey, now Benin, was inherited from colonial times. An
updated version, the Petroleum Code Ordinance 73-33 dates from April 13,
1973; it governs the exploration, production, transport and distribution of
hydrocarbons and petroleum products in Benin. However, the Government
understood the need to modernize again its petroleum legislation and, with
the help of IDA-financed consultants, prepared an Outline of Principal
Terms for production sharing agreements. The first draft was submitted in
1984 to the oil industry for feedback comments, and some important terms
such as the size of the Government's participation, duration of exploration
periods etc., remained to be defined. SAGA's agreement of 1979 to develop
Seme field was basically a service contract whereby all the costs were
carried by the GOB.
Status of Exploration and Production
1.09     Benin covers an area of 112,600 km2 and constitutes a long, narrow
stretch of land perpendicular to the Coast of the Gulf of Guinea (or the
Bight of Benin) between Nigeria to the east and Togo to the west. The main



- 3 -
sedimentary area consists of about 15,600 km2 on land, 3,500 km2 on the
continental shelf (up to the 200m water depth) and 8,000 km2 of deep water
area (200-3,000m). The Seme oilfield is situated on the shelf about 15 km
offshore.
1.10     Geologically, the Benin sedimentary basin is part of a much
larger. elongated pull-apart basin -- the Dahomey Embayment, whose history
is regarded as closely related with the opening of the Atlantic Ocean.
This basin has all the prerequisites for oil discoveries: several potential
source rocks, multiple reservoir rocks and a variety of potential trapping
mechanisms, some of which have a significant potential. Hydrocarbon
exploration began in 1964 when Union Oil of California (Unocal) and the
Government signed an agreement whereby Unocal acquired all the exploration
rights over the basin, onshore and offshore as far out as the shelf's
limit. In 1970, Unocal relinquished 25Z of the initial surface (15,125
km2), and this block was assigned to Shell.  The Seme oilfield was
discovered in 1968 but additional delineation drilling led the company to
conclude that the field was marginal at prevailing crude prices
(US$1.80/bbl). Finally, after the Government turned down a proposed
development scheme, Unocal pulled out of Dahomey, now Benin, in 1975 at the
expiration of its license. Shell made extensive seismic surveys but
finally did not drill any wells and left Benin in 1977. Since that time,
no permits for petroleum exploration have been issued. The main reason for
the lack of experienced companies showing interest in the field
development, was the very high front-end payment that the Government was
requesting, thus distorting the project's economics and rendering the
venture non-viable.
1.11     This was the time (1976-1977) when the GOB approached NORAD for
assistance with developing the Seme field, and SAGA Petroleum of Oslo
jointly with Kvaerner Engineering was asked to prepare a feasibility study
of the development of Seme field on the basis of new geological and
geophysical interpretation. The study estimated the total oil-in-place to
be 124 million STB with ultimate recoverable reserves of 21.7 million bbl
(9.8 million by depletion and 11.9 million by waterflooding). SAGA also
proposed a development scheme to be implemented in two phases. As a result
of the feasibility study, a service contract was signed in May 1979 between
the GOB and SAGA Petroleum Benin regarding the development of the Seme
field with the assistance of Norwegian and minor British financing. The
agreement empowered SAGA as the sole agent of the GOB and the operator
responsible for carrying out all construction, production and marketing
operations. SAGA was remunerated as follows: 12S of the costs of its
services provided and goods from non-Norwegian suppliers, and in addition
4Z of the gross volume of crude produced once accumulated gross sales of
crude equals 213? of the maximum negative cashflow. The contract, however,
was unbalanced compared to normal industry practice, because the Government
assumed all technical and financial risks while SAGA operated on a cost-
plus basis.
1.12     The Norwegian Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has since
commented that this unusual arrangement resulted from the then existing
climate in the petroleum subsectors, and the unwillingness of any other
companies to assume the risk of the project. It has also remarked that
financing 802 of the project through Norwegian banks with a Norwegian
Government guarantee represented a high risk involvement, offset to some
by'                        of the             the n          I    a



- 4 -
certain part of the goods and services should come from Norwegian
suppliers. At the time the arrangement was reached (1979), these
conditions were considered reasonable and in accordance with OECD consensus
regulations. New terms more favorable to the Government were subsequently
renegotiated in 1985.
1.13     In October 1980, the GOB informed the Association that it had
decided to nominate SAGA also as its exploration adviser to help with the
preparation of a petroleum exploration promotion project for the areas
outside the Seme block. In spite of concerns over possible conflicts of
interest arising from the exploration advisor's function being entrusted to
the operator of an oil field, IDA decided that SAGA's appointment was
acceptable in the context of the T.A. project that IDA was preparing.
1.14     At appraisal in April 1981, SAGA was still implementing Phase 1 of
the development scheme, which consisted in the drilling of another 5
delineation/development wells and the construction of production
facilities. The second phase, contingent upon first phase results
indicating that waterflooding is technically feasible, would be the
drilling of injectors, equipment and works for the water injection. The
development of Seme field was envisaged by the GOB and SAGA to be
undertaken in two phases, the first one to be financed by other sources
(para. 1.08), and the second phase by the IDA (Cr. 1503-BEN), European
Investment Bank (EIB) export credits and equity. The first phase
development, including the purchase of a jack-up rig, was expected to cost
around US$129.0 million, and preliminary estimates for the second phase
around US$50.0 million, or a total project cost estimate of about US$179.0
million.
1.15     The financing of the first phase was provided essentially by
Norwegian loans to the GOB, the balance coming from a British commercial
bank with the British Export Pinancing guarantee (ECGD).  The Government's
contribution of US$ 13.0 million was for local costs. The financing plan
looked like thiss
USS million
Eksportfinans                            55.7
Den Norske Creditbank                    60.0
Midland Bank                              8.5
Total                                 124.2
GOB                                      11.8
Project Cost                            136.0
Actual borrowings for the first phaset amounted to US$ 129 million due to
cost overruns. The average interest rate was around 72 per annum.
1.16     Objectives of the IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project.  The
main objectives of the project were to assist the GOB in its efforts to
strengthen its capability to understand and control the petroleum sector-
and in particular (i) to operate the Seme field in the mid-term rather than
having it under a full service contract, as at the time of appraisal, with



-5-
foreign inputs for even simple labor tasks; (ii) to lay the ground for the
future second phase develipment (vaterflooding) of the Seme field: and
(iii) promote exploration by international companies in free acreage
outside of the Seme producing licence block.
1.17     This report is based on documents and reports available in the
project's files. Discussions with previous project officers could take
place only by phone, since the individuals involved have left the service
of the Bank. The general opinion concerning the performance of the basin
evaluation study expressed by the Exploration Advisor is that cooperation
between the various parties involved (Bank, Government, Exploration Advisor
and consultants) was excellent.



-6-                                                   ;
1I - PROJECT ORIGIN - PREPARATION - APPRAISAL
I
2.01     Origin of the Project.  In a visit in late 1977 to Norway to
inquire about NORAD's involvement in LDC's and to present IDA's new policy
of intervention in petroleum matters, the Bank mission was asked to
cofinance with Norway assistanLe to Benin. After lengthy debates and the
review of a feasibility report prepared by SAGA of Oslo on the development
of the Seme oilfield, the Association decided to finance some additional
assistance that NORAD was not able to.
2.02     The identification mission in late March 1980 confirmed that there
was a further need to assist the GOB in its efforts to develop the Seme
field and also to promote exploration in other prospective areas, both
onshore and offshore. The proposed project was accepted by the GOB. Its
objectives were stated as follows.
(a)   the preparation of the petroleum exploration promotion component
by compiling existing geological information and making
recommendations for additional work: and,
(b)    the preparation of training programs for oilfield workers and for
professionals in the Government including the selection of
candidates and the initial implementation of the program.
Upon Government request, a PPF of US$500,000 wase approved on December 3,
1980 to prepare the project. A second PPP in an equal amount of US$500,000
was approved on October 22, 1981 to bridge the financing needs until credit
effectiveness which was expected for Spring 1982.
Proiect Preparation and Appraisal
2.03     An IDA mission prepared and appraised the project in April 1981 in
line with the project objectives mentioned above, and after considerable
discussions with SAGA, it was agreed that the proposed IDA credit of US$8
million would finance 84S of the project cost, the balance to be financed
by the GOB with a minor contribution from EIB. The project consists of the
following components:
Part   A -  Training Program
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of an oil
training center; and
(2) establishment and implementation of a program for formal
and on-the-job training for local oilfield workers
(roughnecks and drillers)
Part   B -  Professional Training
Training of six professionals in technical, economic and
contractual matters related to petroleum exploration and
production.



- 7 -
Part   C -  Petroleum Exploration Promotion
(1)  (a)  Review and interpretation of existing geophysical
and geological data;
(b) preparation of a work program for future offshore
seismic survey's under the Borrower's monitoring,
supervision of (C(2)) of the Project and
reprocessing of existing seismic data;
(c) promotion of exploration acreage to interested
companies and negotiation of exploration
agreements; and .
(d) monitoring of the exploration activities.
(2) Offshore seismic surveys covering approximately 1,400
line-km.                                            I
(3)  (a)  Review of the existing petroleum legislation and
lts appropriate modification;
(b) preparation of a model explorationlproduction
agreement; and
5C) negotiating exploration agreements.
Part   D.   Enpineering Studles
(1)  Reservoir engineering study to determine the feasibility
of secondary recovery (waterflocding) for the Seme
oilfield; and
(2) detailed engineering design of a water injection
platform and relevant facllities for the Seme field.
2.04     Credit negotiations were held in Washington (Nov 30 - Dec 04,
1981) and the Credit was approved by the Board on February 16, 1982.
2.05     The credit became effective on July 16, 1982 and there were no
special conditions of effectiveness. At that time, the first PPF
($500,000) had been entirely spent while the second PPF was still unused.



- 8 -
III - IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Plan
3.01     OBEKINES managed the project through its agent SAGA Petroleum
Benin. SAGA acted in Its capacity of the contractor to develop Seme
oilfield regarding the implementation of the training and engineering
studies components (Parts A, B and D). Saga also managed the exploration
component (Part C of Project) in its capacity of exploration advisor of the
GOB. As OBEMINES' agent, SAGA, together with a Government representative,
prepared the bidding documents, made the selection of subcontractors for
goods, services and consultancy, signed the contracts, and generally
assumed responsibility for all practical aspects of project implementation,
including supervision and cost accounting.
Training Program for Oilfield Workers (Part A)
3.02     The first step was the construction, furnishing and equipping of
an oil training center, on a piece of land owned by the GOB. The
construction of the prefabricated center vas finished in early May 1982,
before effectiveness under PPF and the center was commissioned the
following month; it included a small demonstration rig. The training
itself started in mid-April 1982 with the arrival of five instructors and
the selection of 50 workers for training in field operatlnst tank farms,
drilling, maintenance, security, etc. The purpose of this training was to
enable OBELINES to make available qualified local labor on the offshore
operations and thus decrease the number of expensive expatriate personnel.
Altogether 153 Beninians were trained in the course of the project
duration.
Professional Training (Part B)
3.03     The recruiting of six professionals (2 geologists, 2
geophysicists, 1 petroleum engineer and 1 lawyer) was not easy,
particularly in the last two cases, but eventually OBEMINES and SAGA found
suitable candidates. Prior to credit effectiveness, already one geologist
and three petroleum engineers had followed training courses in Norway on
SAGA's premises. With the credit in place, another contingent was
recruited and sent for training in Norway and France also. The purpose of
the training of these engineers was to prepare a solid professional core
for the soon-to-be-created national oil company of Benin. The objective
was achieved in a reasonably satisfactory manner.
Petroleum Exploration Promotion (Part C)
3.04     The decision of the GOB to take SAGA Petroleum Benin as its
exploration consultant adviser was somewhat of a surprise to the Bank
mission; nevertheless that firm was accepted, although their experience in
that field was considered to be rather meager. Responsible staff within
this company did however have significant prior experience in the
international petroleum industry. Shortly thereafter, SAGA started
gathering all previous geological and geophysical data and making their
interpretation. They prepared a work program for additional seismic



-
acquisition and for reprocessing old seismic lines as well as the
processing of the new data, so that a modern interpretation of the entire
offshore basin could be presented to the GOB for guidance ir establishing
oil exploration policies and to the oil industry to attract exploration
investments in the screage outside the Seme field block. A seismic survey
of about 1498 line-km was shot in August 1982 by Western Geophysical, a
well-known firm from Houston, while the processing was made by another
company (Sefel). These firms were selected according to Bank Guidelines,
supervised by the exploration advisor, and their work was well done.
3.05     The petroleum code was reviewed by a law firm for its adequacy
concerning double taxation, and by an internationally reputed management
consulting firm for its suitability to encourage exploration investment.
These firms were selected according to Bank rules. The code provides for
three types of permitss
(a)   the non-exclusive prospecting licence allows preliminary
superficial work on an unlimited area for a short period;
(b)   the exclusive exploration permit or Permit H allows drilling
and is valid for three years with two renewable periods of
three years each; and
(c) the production licence, after a commercial discovery, is
valid for 25 years with two 10-year extensions. The code
also provided for a hefty signature bonus and production
bonuses.
3.06     The existing code was deemed flexible enough to accommodate a
model contract based on the production sharing approach. The consultants
prepared a draft model contract which was submitted to the Bank for
comments, prior to being circulated among some oil companies to get their
comments, particularly in respect to duration, sharing percentage options
and cost recovery oil percentage. Three promotional seminars were
organized in March 1985 in London, Houston and Calgary to present Benin's
petroleum potential and the new model contract. These seminars led to a
fair amount of interest from the international petroleum industry, and
discussions with three oil companies were initiated. However, all work
stopped in September 1985 as a result of the Government's sudden decision
to rescind SAGA's contract and appoint a new operator, PANOCO. The
Government also granted to PANOCO a blanket exploration concession on the
entire territory of Benin. This induced all other oil companies to lose
interest in Benin, and discussions with the other companies ceased.
3.07     The Government decided to dismiss SAGA and contract PANOCO, in
spite of the just completed negotiations of more favorable contractual
terms with SAGA. This created serious difficulties with the financiers of
phase one of Seme's development. Eventually the deal with PANOCO turned
sour as this operator failed to deliver not only on its empty promises of
generous investment in the country, but also on its contractual payment
obligations. Upon PANOCO's departure from Benin in 1987, partly owing to
IDA's pressure on the Government, the operatorship of Seme has been awarded
to a bona fide oil company, Ashland of the United States. The promotion of
free acreage, however, was not resumed. The Government subsequently



- 10 -
awarded the entire offshore acreage excluding S&me to International
Petroleum Ltd., of Vancounver, in 1989, after an informal consultation with
interested petroleum companies.
Engineering Studies (Part D)
3.08     The Technical Assistance Project was meant to serve as a
preparatory step for the second project requiring much greater financial
assistance from IDA, na ily the waterflooding scheme in the Seme field.
The first reservoir engineering study of the feasibility of secondary
recovery (waterflooding) in Seme, was financed with a separate EIB loan of
US$370,000. The French consulting firm FRANLAB was selected to undertake
the job in two steps. The first step which consisted of a complete
subsurface evaluation and the preparation of a reservoir model simulation,
was completed in August 1982. The second step of the study was not needed
as early as initially thought because the reservoir behavior turned out to
be better than forecasted. The new forecast of Harch 1983 predicted that
water injection would not be needed prior to September 198!. However,
because of the need to have a sounder understanding of the complex Seme
geology, it was decided to shoot a 3-D seismic survey over the northern
part (about 1367 line-km) and a 2-D survey over the small southern part
(about 150 line-km), and also to wait for the information from two other
wells planned for 1984. Discussions among Benin, IDA, EIB, Western and
SAGA representatives on the interpretation of the survey combined with the
results of a well drilled under the second project, convinced OBEMINES and
GOB in July 1985 to delay the water injection and instead, to conduct a
reservoir simulation study based on the new st. ctural map in order to
immediately optimize field production and crude recovery. IDA agreed with
this decision.
3.09     The second study which was planned to be the detailed engineering
design for a water injection platform and relevant facilities, was replaced
by a study of a free standing monopod structure (para. 4.10).
Changes in Project Schedule and Scope
3.10     The only major change in project scheduling has been the
postponement by some 17 months of the second step of the reservoir
engineering study, i.e., the reservoir model simulation, after completion
on schedule of the first step (para 3.08). There were two changes in
project scope, the first one was the shooting of a detailed seismic survey
over the extended Seme field (para. 3.08) and the resulting interpretation
of the 1517 km survey, and the second one, the change in engineering
studies (para. 3.08). Both of these changes were fully endorsed by IDA.
There were no other modifications except for those due to the abrupt change
of the operator in September 1985.
Reporting and Auditing
3.11     Reporting was accomplished generally with negligible delays; two
problems, however, were encountered (a) yearly auditing reports of the
project accounts were submitted with considerable delays and sometimes
after several requests; and (b) such reports never covered the Government's
share of the project costs, consisting of local currency expenditures.



- 11 -
Procurement
3.12      During the project duration, Bank procurement Guidelines were
fairly well observed, even though SAGA included an unusual number of
Norwegian firms in the shortlists. The Norwegian Royal Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and SAGA have both pointed out, however, that no preference was
granted to Norwegian firms in the final award of these contracts, as the
list of contracts given on page 1 of Annex 3 indicates. All the technical
assistance contracts were awarded on the basis of the technical merits of
proposals received from IDA-approved shortlists of firms.
3.13      Bank procurement procedures appear to have created no problems to
ORWMINZS. For a first time borrower, compliance was very good.
ProJect Costs
3.14      The following table compares the actual project copts with the
appraisal estimates. A more detailed presentation of costs is in Annex 1.
Project Cost TOMle
(SOR Million)
Categ.  Part    Description       Aperaisal (Credit Asrem_nt)             Actual
Local  Forelon Total         Local   Foreian  Total
Traluina Center
(1)    A(1)    Construction            .160   .160   .860          n.a.       .201  n.n.
(2)    A(1)    Furnishing/Equipping    -      .270   .270          n.s.       .268  n.S.
Trtinina
(9)    A(2)*B  Workers .               .720  1.920  2.640          n.e.     1.686  n.m.
Profeslonal 
Petr. ExDl. Pros.
(4)    C(1+')  Promotion Prep          .180   .440   .e20          n.e.       .869  n.S.
* Logiel. Update
(S)    C(2)    Seismic Survey*         .090  1.480  1.570          n.s.     2.775  n.s.
Ensineorins Studies
(6)    D(2)                            .045   .610   .656          n.m.       .728  n.S.
PPF Ro undina
(7)                                   -       .70   .870           -          .458  -
Continoencie
(6)            Unallocated             .815  1.280  1.645          -        -
Total                                       1.580  7.000  8.630                   6.985



- 12 -
Changes in project scope have affected essentially Part C or the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion component of the Project which was 90X overspent in
relation to Appraisal estimates or by around SDR 1.724 million. The main
reasons for this overspending were (a) the need for an additional 3-D
survey over the Seme field area, and (b) the fact that the additional
seismic survey requlred more interpretation and the promotion itself was
considerably more costly and demanding and the consultants more expensive
than initially estimated. Some of tbe cost overrun concerning the
promotion can be attributed to the large number of meetings and
presentations which had to be made to GOB and the Bank, the requirements to
hire two external consultants to carry out quality control of the
evaluation study, and an unplanned presentation of the report made in
Calgary.
3.15     The project was completed with an underrun of SDR 15,291.11 or
2/10 of one percent. in foreign expenditures. This small amount was
cancelled on November 23, 1987. Local expenditures, which were obviously
incurred, have however not been accounted for, and therefore it is not
possible to present the total actual cost situation of the project.
Disbursements
3.16     The disbursement schedule prepared during appraisal (Annex 2) was
modified to incorporate the changes in the scope of work as well as the
unavoidable delays in project implementation, and the extensions of the
Closing Dates.
Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(SDR Million)
Fiscal Year               Appraisal Forecast              Actual
1981                             -                         .17
1982                           2.88                        .45
1983                           6.48                       1.58
1984                           7.00                       3.47
1985                             -                        5.86
1986                             -                        6.88
1987                             -                        6.97
1988                             -                        7.000
3.17     Disbursements started in the last quarter of FY'81 from the first
PPF (P 147) which was refinanced by the credit in the first quarter of FY
'83 just a few days after credit effectiveness. The second PPF (P 180) was
not used because some contracts were implemented prior to being signed by
the GOB and therefore could not be disbursed gainst. At the end of the
original Closing Date, only SOZ of the credit had been disbursed, and at
the end of the first extension (June 30, 1985) around 84X was disbursed.
Two further extensions to December 31, 1986 were needed to complete the
project. The last disbursement took place in July 1987.



- 13 -
Performance of Consultants
3.18     The training consultants have done a good job. The quality control
specialists for seismic acquisition and processing as well as the
engineering firms have also performed well. The law firm commenting on the
petroleum law in relation to double taxation, did a valuable job.
3.19     The exploration consultant did a credible job, partly as a result
of much prodding from Bank missions.  Their performance. how- -r  betrayed
their lack of experience, and never matched the standard exp- -d of
established exploration advisory firms, though they showed goodwill and
were willing to improve. Some responsibility could possibly also be
attributed to the lack of continuity on the part of Bank consultants.
3.20     The management consulting firm dealing with the organization of
the exploration promotion seminars and with the preparation of a model
contract could not complete the exploration model agreement on time for the
promotion meetings where they were expecting some feedback from the
attending companies. The firm's previous experience in this specific field
was limited as was its familiarity with current industry practices in LDCs.
However, the firm deserves high marks for its contribution in preparing the
new SAGA Petroleum service contract and assisting the GOB in its
negotiations.
3.21     In summary, the Government would have received better advice and
obtained better results in exploratior strategy if more experienced
consult.mts had been selected.
Performace of Contractors
3.22     The seismic acquisition and processing contractors fox a total
cost of around US$2.6 million were all executed very satisfactorily without
undue problems other than norme] field problems.



- 14 -
IV - PROJECT RESULTS
Technical Assistance (Parts A and B of the Project)
4.01     About 153 Beninians were trained in oilfield operations - 133 men
who were trained as skilled workers (derrickmen, welders, etc) are working
in Seme fiel4 operations. Some 20 professionals, after completion of a
theoretical and practical training program overseas, took up positions as
engineers with the operating company SAGA Petroleum Benin. The overall
dropout rate has been minimal.
4.02     Eleven professionals (geologists, geophysicists, petroleum
engineers, contract specialists and economists) also received some special
training in order to strengthen the energy sector management capability of
the SDH.
4.03     It appears that in general, the results of the training for
oilfield workers and technicians and for professionals, which entailed an
overall cost of US$1.2 million, have been satisfactory. The rate of return
on this investment though not easy to calculate in the absence of the Seme
field operator's information, appears to be in line with the Appraisal
estimate of 20S. The pay-back period is reported to be less than one year.
4.04     The training center which was established at a total cost of
around US$350,000 appeared to be in good condition at the end of the
project.
Petroleum Exploration Promotion (Part C of the Project)
4.05     The preparation of the explrration promotion efforts, which
included the completion of the basin. study and the organization of a
promotional meeting, were properly executed. However, they did not lead to
the conclusion of exploration agreements because the model contract was not
finalized on time and, more importantly because no acreage was available
for r -otiations upon conclusion of the promotion meetings. The consulting
fi.r in charge of the model contract preparation, due to its lack of
experience in such preparation, searched for the oil industry feedback at a
time when the Government changed the deck by sacking SAGA and awarding a
contract for: the entire prospective basin, including the Seme field
development, to an unknown newcomer, PANOCO.
4.06     The seismic survey of 1,492 line-km was diligently acquired with
high quality resuliLs in August 1982 while the processing was completed by
the following February. On this excellent basis, SAGA, the Government's
exploration consultant prepared the interpretatiou, which they integrated
in the Basin Evaluation Study that was completed in August 1984. The
study, after many specific comments and suggestions from the Bank, turned
out to be of good quality. However, only two Teports were sold. It also
seems that a certain lack of coordination between the various consultants
involved, as well as a lack of technical experience of some of them, was
responsible for the rather inefficient promotional effort. In other
successful promotion projects, the four steps --basin study, promotion
strategy, model contract preparation and follow-up negotiations, were



- 15 -
undertaken by a single firm or else Bank's exilorationists got deeply
involved in the coordination of consultants.
4.07     The law firm which reviewed the petroleum code particularly from
the point of view of double taxation in the case of American companies
concluded that, due to conveniently timed changes in IRS regulations, there
was no need to change the law, which was deemed flexible enough to
accommodate the various types of exploration contracts commonly in use in
the oil industry. The Government's economic adviser confirmed the above
judgement and prepared a model contract to help speed up negotiations but
it was never finalized. In any case, three promotional meetings were
organized in London, Houston and Calgary in early 1985. Although only two
companies indicated some interest in pursuing discussions with the GOB,
many others were considering the issue and GOB was considering revising
contract terms to encourage companies to apply. The Government's decision
to rescind SAGA's contracts and to give the entire Benin basin including
Seme to PANOCO, put an end to everything.
4.08     In summary, the promotional effort failed and until this day the
effects of the GOB's decision to rescind the SAGA contract linger.
Bowever, this does not reflect in any way on the prospectiveness of the
Benin basin which is attractive, and should be promoted again, perhaps
jointly with the small Togo acreage, although experience in Togo-Benin
cooperation in t.he petroleum subsector has so far been poor.
Enuineering Studies (Part D of the Project)
4.09     The reservoir engineering study on the feasibility of
waterflooding in Seme field which was financed under an EIB loan, was
redesigned on the basis of the resulta of the first stage of the study, and
of the actual reservoir behavior. The study concluded also on the basis of
the results of a new 3-D seismic survey financed under part C (2), and
completed in the Spring of 1984, that no water injection was necessary at
least for the next two or three years, since there was active waterdrive in
the reservoir. The study also concluded that the reservoir has a larger
extension than previously thought of. The consultant's performance was
very satisfactory.
4.10 The engineering study to design the second phase development scheme
(such as drilling/production platform design versus individual free
standing monopod platforms and accessories) was completed in March 1984, on
time for the appraisal of the Seme field 2nd phase development project (Cr.
1503-BEN).
4.11     In order to better define the geology and the reservoir
extensions, and to optimize 2nd phase development which is currently being
implemented, a 3-D seismic survey of 1,367km over the N Seme structure and
a 2-D 150 km survey over the S outpost of Seme were ready for
interpretation at the beginning of 1984. The results were available in
final form in Summer 1984 but preliminary results had been used for
completing the engineering studies (para. 4.10).



- 16 -
V - INSTITUTIONAL PhRFORMNACE
Organization and Management
5.01     The Government Implemented their share of the project in
accordance with the covenants set forth In the Credit Agreement and with
the procurement guidelines. They provided proper local support to the
various consulting firms involved in the implementatLen of the project
components. The Beninian staff demonstrated good wvil, keen interest in
learning, and often enthusiasm in performing their tasks. The Bank
missions enjoyed excellent collaboration on the part of the Benin personnel
involved in the project.
5.02     However, the Government's decision to rescind SAGA's service
contract and to enter in a deal with PANOCO fatally compromised the
exploration promotion objective of the T. A. project. The problem bas
since been resolved with PANOCO's withdrawal and with the appointment of
Ashland as operator of the SEW field. As the GOB has subsequently awarded
Beanin's entire offshore acreage excluding SimA to International Petroleum
Ltd. of Canada, the possibility of other companies matlng ,roposals is
excluded at the present time..



- 17 -
VI - BANK P  UWORMANCE                                     ;
6.01     The project vas properly identified and appraised.  IDA played a
crucial role In the implementation of the work program provided for in the
different components of the project.
6.02     ID and its experts assisted the Government in the close
monitoring of all special studies and often intervened strongly in order to
lmprove the quality of the studies.
6.03     The project was periodically supervised during its Implementation
vith an average of 2.5 missions per year. The frequency and timing of the
missions vere necessary for the supervising staff to assess the activities
in progress and to express their views and recommendations on the project
implementation. The Bank in consultation with the Government
representatives maintained close contacts with the various consultan.ts
financed under the project in order to ensure that the work programs were
adhered to and that the output met quality standards.  The wffectiveness of
Bank supervieion, however, has been reduced by changes of the staff
assigned to the task, and by the less than continuous involvement of
explorationist experts in the supervision.
6.04     But the Bank failed by not satisfying itself of the adequacy of
the SAGA service contract and by agreeing to the commingling of the
operator's and advisor's functions, which reduced the exploration advisor's
effectiveness, perhaps as a result of conflicts of interest.1   Also, the
Bank should have been more cautious in ensuring that consulting firms
included in the shortlists for key tasks met suitable standards of
qualification.
6.05     The project was justified by its results, the second phase                    _
development of Seme field has started, production is hovering around 4,500
bid, an efficient, trained staff and around 150 skilled workers are                    m
available to the country.                                                              |
1/ SAGA has commented that they disagree with this conclusion; they did not
submit a bid in the exploration round nor did they take an equity stake
in the same oilfield, and therefore consider that a conflict of interest
was avoided.



- 18 -
VII - CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7,01     The main goals of the project were to train Beninians for
strengthening the Government agency in charge of petroleum and for
petroleum industry needs, to lay the basis through engineering and
geological studies for the future second phase development of Seme field
and to promote petroleum exploration. The first two goals were achieved
while the third one could not be completed.
7.02     Although the results of the exploration promotion efforts were
initially disappointing (no exploration contract was signed), the petroleum
potential of the Benin basin onshore and offshore has been enhanced by the
project implementation and its prospectiveness appears substantially
greater than it was at project onset. The only negative aspect is the
rather small size of Benin's basin which precludes much competition for
acquiring exploration rights.
7.03     Had the GOB made better selections of the exploration adviser and
of the economic (contract) adviser who both lacked proper experience in the
field they were tackling, perhaps the promotion preparation could have been
completed on time before the fateful decision which derailed the project.
7.04     Although the Bank had no say concerning GOB's decision to take
SAGA Petroleum as its authorized agent to develop Seme field under a
service contract signed prior to Bank involvement (May 29, 1979), the Bank
should have been more cautious in implicitly approving the service contract
which widely favored SAGA, and also in approving SAGA as the exploration
adviser --SAGA's previous experience was mainly as a joint-venture partner.
The project strengthened the GOB's effectiveness in mAnaging the petroleum
subsector (which probably led later to the sacking of SAGA). However, it
appears that SAGA benefitted from the project as much as the Government, by
acquiring badly needed oilfield experience at Government's cost.
7.05     Despite the above considerations, the project was well justified
by its results which have been beneficial to Benin. The management of the
energy sector or rather the petroleum subsector has been considerably
strengthened through direct assistance, punctual seminars and on-the-job
training; a pool of skilled workers of more than 150 men has been tightly
trained and their skills can be of use in any other technical field in the
country.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN TEE PETROLEUM SECTOR
CREDIT 1207-BEN
PROJECT COSTS IN SDR MILLION
PROJECT COST
(in SDR Million)
Parts   Description             Appraisal (Credit Agreement'             Actual
Training Center                      Local   Foreign   Total        Local    Foreign  Total
1. Atl)    Construction               180       180      360         n.a.      201     n.a.
2. A(l)    Furnishing/Equipping        -        270      270         n.a.      268     n.a.
Training
3. A(2)+B  Workers & Professionals   720    1,920    2,640           n.a.    1,686     n.a.
Petroleum Exploration Promotion                                                                         '
4. C(1+3) Promotion Preparation and
Legislation Update          180      440       620        n.a.       869     n.a.
5. C(2)   Seismic Surveys              90    1,480    1.570          n.a.    2,775     n.a.
Engineering Studies
6. D(2)                                45       610      655         n.a.      728     n.a.
PPF RefundinR
7.                                     -        870      870          -        458       -
Contingencies
8.        Unallocated                 315    1,230    1,545           -         -        -
t O T A L                          1,530    7,000    8,530         n.a.    6,985      n.a.
a/ Component D(l) for Reservoir engineering study was financed under an EIB loan.



- 20 -                        ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
CREDIT 1207-BEN
SCHEDULE OF CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR Million)
Fiscal Year                                                  Actual as
and Quarter                   Appraisal       Actual      S of Appr.
1981  4th Quarter                      -         176.3
1982  1                             250          176.3           70
2                             900          255.6           28.4
3                           1,800          255.6           14.2
4                           2,800          455.9           16.3
1983  1                           4,000          816.5           20.4
2                           5,000          816.5           16.3
3                           5,800        1,530.3           24.4
4                           6,300       1,577.7            25.0
1984  1                           6,600        2,785.2           42.2
2                           6,750       2,900.8            43.0
3                           6,900        2,929.5           42.5
4                           7,000       3,473.4            49.6
1985  1                                        3,818.6           54.6
2                                        4,750.8           67.9
3                                        5,675.1           81.1
4                                        5,857.3           83.7
1986  1                                        6,266.9           89.5
2                                        6,425.5           91.8
3                                        6,701.0           95.7
4                                        6,876.3           98.2
1987  1                                        6,899.0           98.6
2                                        6,946.3           99.2
3                                        6.974.4           99.6
4                                        6,974.4           99.6
1988  1                                        6,991.8          100.0



- 21 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
CREDIT 1207-BEN
A -List of Contracts
Firm                          Contract
Signed     Approved      Currency/Amount
1.    Groom & Nordberg (law)    07.21.82                           S25,000
2.    Novamar (constr.)          01.13.82   12.30.81             DM 71,300
3.    D'Appolonia (Monopod)      04.27.83   10.08.82          BF 3,000,000
4.    SCAP (prefab.)             12.20.81   12.07.81           FP  715,780
5.    EGTC (cloture)             06.25.82                       CF 882,700
6.   EGTC (dalle)                08.02.82                     CF 1,879,564
7.    EGTC (rehab)               12.24.86                     CP 8,000,000
8.    ADL (contracts)            10.14.83                        $ 130,000
9.    ECL (quality)              06.01.82   06.14.82              $ 12,000
10.   ECL (quality)              01.16.84                          L 6.000
11.   Odfjell (dlg. tr.)         09.15.81                        NK 24,000
12.   ORCAL (damagaes)           05.21.85                       PF 300,000
13.   Protech (design)           08.20.82                     Gu 2,200,000
14.   SAGA (Spn. seis)           10.17.83                     NK 1,303,000
15.   SAGA (tr. prep.)           03.17.81                        $ 400,000
16.   SAGA (tr. prof.)           03.17.81                         $ 25,000
17.   SAGA (basin)                    .83                     NK 4,346,540
18.   SAGA (feasib.)             10.17.83                     NR 1,303,333
19.   Techno-Transfer (tr.)      06.29.81   10.21.81          FP 5,300,000
20.   Arthur Young (audit)       05.02.84                         $ 98,000
21.   Sefel (processing)         08.13.82   04.12.82             $ 180,000
22.   Western (seis)                        04.12.82           $ 1,160,159
23.   Western (3-D)              01.02.84                      $ 1,160,702
24.   Miller (storage)           05.23.83   02.13.84            L 3,444/yr
25.   TRANSBOIS (equ. tr)                   01.20.82            FF 529,000
26.   Pay & Brinck (compr.)                 03.26.82              $ 50,000
27.   Welldrill (adviser)        05.31.84   05.14.84              $ 90,000
28.   Petrofor (drlg. tr)                   12.27.85            Fl 221,400



- 22 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
B - Expenditures According to Categories in SDR
Categories                        Allocated                Expensed
(1) Civil works for Part ACl)       180,000                 200,754.76
(2) Equipment/lurnishing            270,000                 268,209.38
For Part A(l)
(3) Training for Parts A(2)       1,920,000               1,686,069.08
and B
(4) Consultants' Services for       440,000                 869,120.71
Part C(1) and C(M)
,5'. Seiemic Surveys for          1,480,000               2,775,106.90
Part CM2)
(6) Engineering Consultants'        610,000                 727,160.29
Services for Part D(2)
(7) PPF Refunding                   870,000                 458,287.77
(8) Contingencies/Unallocated    1,230,000
TOTAL                           7,000,000               6,984,708.89
Cancelled  November 23, 1987                       SDR 15,291.11



- 23 -                              ATTACHMENT 1
ROYAL MINISTRY
OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS                    Ourddo                ou
20.11.1989    Jnr. 8315/89 ViII  EA/ir
Inquiri to                                   Your dte              Your refwence
COMMENTS FROM THE COFINANCIER
The World Bank,
Operations Evaluation Deparatment,
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Att.: Alexander Nowicki
DENIN. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN Tn  PETROL EIN SECTOR PROJECT.  WAFT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT.
Reference is made to Your letter dated October 11, requesting possible
comments to the above mentioned report.
We would in this respect like to forward the following comments:
The report describes mainly the rDA activities and to which extend
the objectivef behind the World Bank support has been achieved. The
report is, however, also focusing on SAGA's total role in the project.
The company is critizised for being unexperienced and to have an
unbalanced contract with the Government of Benin. The report does not,
however, in a very presise way describe the background and conditions
leading up to SAGA's engagement.
The situation in the oil business in 1979 was such that other oil compa-
nies were unwillling to take the risk in the Seme project. Finan7-ing 80
per cent of the project through Norwegian Banks with a government guaran-
tee through GIFK represented therefore a high risk involvement. Such
participation consequently provided for Norwegian operatorship and that a
certain part of the goods and services should come from Norwegian suppli-
ers. This was considered vital from a purely banking security point of
view. In 1979 these conditions were considered reasonable and they are
in accordance with the OECD-consensus regulations and was probably the
only alternative for the Government of Benin to start the Semk oil field
project. This situation should in our opinion be more fully reflected in
the report.
Other more spesific comments to the report are the following:
p. ii Basic data shect
8             Actual as % of  Appraisal':          FY82: 16,3    FY83: 25    FY84: 49,6
p.  v   para 3
SAGA's compensation in the Service contract from 1985 wvs not very diffe-
rent from the original contract from 1979. The handling charge tee of
Po"l adde:            Offic address:        Telephone:   Telex:   Telex:      CabW:
PAO.SOx 8114 Oep.     7.  Pls               47244 36 00   7104 NOREG N 47244 95 80    NOE. Oslo
0032 Oslo I           VIlol TwrssI



- 24 -                                   ATTACHMENT 1
2
121 (also acting as guarantee money from non-Norwegian suppliers) was
changed to a management fee + three yearly lumpsum payments.  In 1985,
the oil production from the field was considerable which guaranteed SAGA
to a high degree a profitable engagement.
p. vii para 10
PANOCO was fired in May 1986. (Also see p. 8, para 3.07.)
p.  3    para 1.11
SAGA's 121 handling fee concerned only SAGA's services and non-Norwegian
suppliers. The money acted also as regress money from such deliveries in
case that guarantee money would have to be paid from GIER to DnC and
Eksportfinans.
p.  4    para 1.12
We assume that the stage" and *phase0 are identical. In this project
the term 5phase is mostly used.
Phase 2, preliminary estimated to U5$ 45 - 50 mill. was planned to be
financed by IDA, EIB, Export Credits and Equity (Cash Flow).
p.  4   para 1.13
The finance plan                                     US $
Eksportfinans                          55,7
OnC                                    60,0
Midland Bank                            8,5
GOB                                    11,8
Project cost                          136,0
p. 10 para 3.12
The report claims that an unusual number of Norwegian firms were
shortlisted. This is somewhat difficult to understand. Apart from SAGA,
Norwegian deliveries to the IDA projects were insignificant (documented
on page 20).
p. 11-12 para 3.19-20
The critic regarding the performance of the exploration consultant (SAGA)
is quitevague. SAGA's experts and the Dank's consultants had in periods
different opinions about the exploration strategies. Lack of experience
from SAGA and poor continuity of the Bank's consultants are probably two
elements contributing to this. However, the final outcome of this
activity was in our opinion acceptable.
/li rs sincer Iy,
i                           os   Dien  o
Direc or t ral f 
Head of Division



ATTACHMENT 2
- 25 -
SWga
PAtokm za&
COMMETS FROM THE CONSULTANT
The World BDank
Attnt Alexander Novicki,
Operations Evaluation Department
WASHINGTON D.C.
Your reference        Your date            Our reference          Hovik
B-RR-233/CEP/OEV      17th Nov. 1989
REP. BENIE: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 20/7-JM)
DRAFT PROJECT COMPLSTION REPORT
Enclosed please find our comments to subject report.
Should further details be necessary, please let us know.
Yours faithfully.
for Saga Petroleum a.s.
"/ 
Carl-Erik Pettersen
Eac1.
..~ ~    ~  ~ ,.
7muineA'0    Td, 71         Ts Tonz         AgkuSAdUmw  Tedetm 1bri7I  Tiom TONSir
MI....       _Ejm(O~1600   16nPtbl7                     Nuojomn  576655  3344ap
Paf2i.      6m =Z4722600  Tlfx &l         403FOeu     bfom. .4174576656  eea 0M
IuNAS                       NKaa660         Nm~Ns (404)1 157 10 61                                I
NSUW      im~~~~~~~~~.ee  saws                      k~~~~~~~~~We. * 47566



- 26 -                                  ATTACHMENT 2
Re:  BDeni: TeCnical AssIStance In the Petroleum Sector Project
(Loan 2017-JM)
Draft Project Completion Report
Page vi: Par. SC.    Training of Benin professionals did not end In 1983, but lasted
practically up to completion of the evaluation report le. end of 1984.
Page v Par. 6:     According to report other consultant (Arthur D. Little) "prepared
promotion". We would Ulke to correct this statement as Saga performed
most of this work by preparing the sales brochure "Future
Hydrocarbon Exploration and Production" and preparation of the
technical part and the presentation of this to the oil Industry In 3
seminars.
Page VI: Par. 8:   Saga Interprets this to be Western/Sefel and tberefore wants to add
that due to Saga's standard procedure for QC during acquistdon and
processing of seismic data, good quality data was expected (ref. Par.
3.04, page 8). Saga Is well known In the Industry for obtaining good
quality seismic data.
Page vi1 Par. 10:    The report states that one reason to why "the promotion of exploraton
Investments In available acreage In Beeni's sedi'entary basin did not
materilie was that the preparatory work to the promootion took
much longer time tbhs planed. This Is correct, but the delay was
mainly caused by the long time of gettiyg approval from authorites
and World Bank of for example the Sales Brochure. Additlonafly some
tme was spent before agreement ws reached of which principal terms
should be  cluddW In a future Prodction Shaing Agement, and f
revision of eonin's Petroeum Code was necessary. This delayed the
completion of the Sales Brochure. Saga did In fact recommend the
anslation of the Petroleum Code from french Into eonlisb.
The prentation of the evalustion report to the oil Industry was from
Sags point of view a success as we after the London seminar was
Invited especially by oil companies based in Canad, to arrange a
prentation In Calgary. This presentation was origloWily neither
announced nor planned.
Page vik Ptr. I1b.:  Concerning the World Bank's scepticism to Saga's role as "Exploration
Advisoxr to Benim for the promotion of Denim's sedimentary basin, we
would like to remind the World Bank that Saga had sustaled from
participating In concesslon ound to follow the completion of the basin
study (ref. Contract between Saga ad Benin for the basin evaluation
study). We can therefore not see any "conflicts of lterest In Saga as
an oil company, being respoondble for this study, and Saga's opinion
during the project period was to do a thorougb Job with the aim to
create maximum Interest for Benin's sedimentay basin In the oil
Industry.
Pago 4: Par. 1.15:   Saga's general opinion of the performaoce of the baslo evaluatlon
study Is that the co-operation with Benin's autbortides and
professionais, the World Bank and later on, Arthur D. Lttle was
excellent The completion of the study was somewhat delayed, but this
must patly be creditted to the long distance between the eonin
authorities, the World Bank on ote side and Saga on the otber, and
partly that Saga had to walt several times for approval before
proceeding to next step In the execution of the project (this one of
conclusions In Par. 2.05, page 6).
Page 6: Par. 2.05:   The credit which also includes the basin evaluation study, to Beoni
was not effective before July 22, 1982. At this time the pre-study



- 27 -                                 ATTACHMENT 2
report was completed. This report concluded with a noew seismic survey
whicb commenced already early July 1982.
Page 7: Par. 3.04:   Concerning WV's opinion of Saga's meager experience In exploration
for Petroleum, plase be aware of the following:
The responsible person for the Benl. Basin EvaluatIon Study was
Elgill Nysuetber, Exploration Mansger, with more than IS years
experience In petroleum exploration. Several of this year witbin
International exploration. All key personael Involved In the project bad
at that time 5-11 years experience within modem geology/geophysics.
Even If Saga was a young company within petroleum exploration, the
company was acknowledged by Its partners and authorities as a
professional oil company.
Saga had also gained International exoerience In this field by
pertIcIpatig In licences In several countries Greenland West,
Guatemala, Ireland, Italy, Netherland, Peru, UK and last, but not least
In USA (also as operator).
Page 8: Par. 3.06:   The results from the promotional seminars arranged spring 1985 were
discussions with 3 companies, according to the report. Discussions with
otber companies took place also during this promotional tour. The
lnterest In the Industry was blgb, but due to strict contrctual terms
the companies were somewbat reluctant to commit themselves. Still
some companies kept a hbigh Interest unti PANOCO's overtake of all
petroleums rights In Benin. Amoco, which purcbased all available data
was the most Interested company, and discussions were arranged with
thIs company until Saga left Benin.
Therefore the on reason for that the promotion did not materialwe
In any company applied for exploration acreage In Benln, was that
PANOCO was granted all petroleums rights.
Page 8: Par. 3.07:   The report correct concludes that the promotlon could not be roomed
as long as PANOCO wa holding al petroleum rigts. Therefore the
lack of Interest for explortion l Benin was not a result of the
promotion, but PANOCo's overtake. To our knowledge Is the entire
offshore area, divided Into 3 lkences, now allocated to the Caadin
based company, Interational Petroleum Ltd., Vancouver.
Page 9: Par. 3.08:   In this paragapb Saga Is given crdt for the decision of 3D survey
over main structure in the Sim& field witb the purpose of ealuotig If
Injection wels were necesay to optimIae the producton.
We find this surprsing compared to the statement lo prgraph 3.04
(page 7).
Page 10: Par. 3.12   We would like to corment the statement: .. even thougb Saga
Included an unoual number of Norwegian fims In the shorldste. Io
the basin evaluation study all sub-contractors were non-norweglan
this was also the case for many of the contracts awarded la the
development of the S6m6 feld. One example i contracts awarded for
all geophyscal services In Benin. The contractors awarded contracts
(ECL, Sefel, SSI and Western) were all recommended by Saga pdor to
approval from the World Bank.
Page 10: Par. 3.14:  In part (b) of this paragrapb It Is stated that some of the overru was
due to consultants whicb were more expensive than iitially estimated
and that the promotion study was more costly and demading than
estmated. If demanding Is ment more time spent, this is attributable
to all time spent In meetings with and presentations to GOB and WB;
this was not Included In Saga's manpower estimate for the project. In
addition, Saga was Imposed by IDA to hire two exteroal consultants to           r
quality control the evaluation study. The cost for these consultants was
charged to the project. This was not estimated by Saga as we
understood that the quality control would be performed by the World



- 28 -                                  ATTACHMIENT 2
BDnk's own professionals. Additionally, the promotdonal seminars
arranged for the ol Industry more costly than expected due to one
extra presentation. The presentation I Calgary was neither announced
nor planned.
Page 11 IPar. 3.19:  We understand that In this paragraph other consultants than Saga Is
d_med.
Page 13: Par. 4.06:  We expect that Arthur D. Little (ADL) Is discussed here. Saga wants
tberefore to add that In sevea  meetings/discusslon where ADL
ptcipated It turned out that due to their lack of tecbhical knowhow
in petroleum exploratlon, most of the constructive Ideas and proposals
were forwarded by Saga personnel.
Page 14: Par. 4.07:  The report states that only two companies Indicated some Interest In
pusuing discussions witb the GOB. To our knowledge there was more
tbhs two companies lnterested, but as we do not hold a file of the
companies sbowing lnterest, we can not quntify this. However,
everyone should be aware of the fact that at the time when everytbhing
stopped, we were In the most critical phase of the promotion as GOB
was considering revision of the contract terms to encourge companies
to apply for acreage In Beni.
Page 14: Par. 4.08:  A possible jolntly promotion of the Togo and Ben  acreage Is a
Interesting thought. But we would lilke to Inform the World Dank that
our experlence for a posible co-operation between Togo and Denio Is
not the best. This comes from the time when w. tra4ed the Lom# weUs
with S6m6 wells and from our meetings with Tog authoddtes In order
to get geolgical lnformton from the Lom6 wells which could ast us
Io the evaluation of the western part of Denlm's offshore area.
Page 15: Par. 5.02   As mentioned ealer (our comments to par. 10 abo"), the total
offshore area Is allocated to a Canadin company.
Page 16: Par. 6.04: Saga disagrees with the World BDank's concluson that because of
possible conflets of Interest, Saga reduced Its effectiveness a
exploraton advisor. We repeat again (as under our comments to par.
l1b above), that Saga In the contract witb GOB sustained from
parclipating In the concession round following completion of the
study. The same argument Is also valid for the development of the
Some fleld; Saga did not have any economical Interest In the field.
Page 17: Par. 7.02:  Saga does not agree with the World Bank's statement that the
"Exploration Promotion' was a disappointment. We like to remnd you
that at the time when our engagement In Benin ceased, we were In the
most crical phase when serous diSuSSions witb Interesting companies
were just to start In additon we should take Into consideration the
possibiity that the companies did not vtlue the Benin sdmentary
area sufficient attadve In light of the attinable terms In the
prodction sharing ageement. In all such cases the companies will do
a rsk analyds of all available acreage world wide.



