Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P3157-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN THE
PETROLEUM SECTOR
January 21, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      CFAF
US$1.00              =     CFAF 270 1/
CFAF 1,000           =     US$3.7
CFAF 1,000,000       =     US$3,704
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm    =  centimeter           =  0.39 inches
1 m     = meter                 =  3.28 feet
1 m3    =  cubic meter          =  264 US gallons
1 1     =  liter                =  0.26 US gallons
i Bbl   =  barrel               =  42 US gallons
1 kg    = kilogram              =  2.2 pounds
1 km    =  kilometer            =  0.62 miles
1 km2   =  square kilometer    =  0.39 square miles
1 t     =  ton                  =  2,205 pounds
1 kW    =  kilowatt             =  1,000 watts
1 MW    =  megawatt             =  1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh   =  kilowatthour         =  1,000 watthours
1 GWh   =  gigawatthour         =  1 million kilowatthours
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEB        =  Communaute Electrique du Benin
ECGD       =  Export Credit Guarantee Department (UK)
EIB        =  European Investment Bank
OBEMINES   =  Office Beninois des Mines et d'Energie
SBD        =  Saga Benin Development S.A.
SBEE       =  Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau
SDH        =  Services des Hydrocarbures
SNAFOR     =  Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Forestier
SONACOP    =  Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des
Produits Petroliers
SPB        =  Saga Petroleum Benin A.S.
UNDP       =  United Nations Development Program
1/   The CFA  Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Borrower:            People's Republic of Benin
Amount:              SDR 7.0 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:       The project would assist the Government in training
Beninese personnel in oil field operations and petroleum
exploration, promoting offshore exploration by foreign
companies in Benin, and laying the basis for the future
second phase development of the Seme field. The project
includes the following components:
(a) Construction of a training center;
(b) Training for about 220 Beninese personnel who would
eventually operate the Seme field (in drilling and
production operations).
(c) Training six Beninese professionals during the period
1981-1983, in order to build a team of capable staff
who would advise the Government on technical, eco-
nomic, and legal matters related to petroleum explo-
ration.
(d) Promotion of exploration through: (i) an offshore
reconnaisance seismic survey of about 1,400 line-km,
and (ii) consultant services to review and interpret
existing geophysical and geological data, to prepare
and supervise a seismic survey, to promote explora-
tion by acreage to oil companies, to review and
update an existing petroleum code, to prepare a model
petroleum agreement, and, to assist the Government in
negotiating exploration agreements and monitoring
activities by the oil companies.
(e) Consultant services to evaluate the applicability of
secondary recovery to the Seme field, and, if war-
ranted, prepare detailed engineering of the water
injection platform and facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits
and Risks:         The training program would enable the Beninese to operate
the Seme oil field, rather than having it under a full
service contract as at present with foreign inputs for
even simple labor tasks. This would reduce operating
costs and transfer technical knowledge to Benin which
would benefit potential subsequent projects. There is a
risk that the trained Beninese personnel might migrate to
neighboring countries, but this would be avoided by
offering competitive salaries. The exploration promotion
component would help attract private capital to undertake
oil exploration in Benin. The risk of this component is
that the data might be insufficiently attractive to spur
widespread industry interest. However, given recent
energy market conditions, the interest of oil companies,
and the existence of the Seme oil field, the exploration
promotion is expected to draw a good response from the oil
companies.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
…-------US$ '000        …
Training Center                                       200         500         700
Construction                                       (200)      (200)        (400)
Training Equipment                                  (-)        (250)       (250)
Class room, other equipment                         (-)         (50)        (50)
Training of Beninese Nationals a/
for operating Seme field                            700      2,600        3,300
Training of Professionals for
petroleum sector management                         100        500          600
Exploration Promotion a/                              300       2,200       2,500
Reservoir Engineering Study                            50         250         300
Detailed Engineering Design Study                      -          700         700
Base Cost                                      1,350      6,750        8,100
Physical Contingencies                           140        650          790
Price Contingencies                              210        850        1,060
Total                                    1,700       8,250        9,950
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                        -       8,000        8,000
Government                                     1,700        -          1,700
EIB Loan                                          -         250          250
1,700      8,250       9_950
a/   These items include a PPF advance of US$500,000 granted in January 1981
($430,000 for training and $70,000 for exploration promotion), and a
second PPF advance of US$500,000 granted in December 1981 ($70,000 for
site preparation and equipment, $128,000 for training contractor tasks,
$280,500 for training and $21,500 for contingencies).
Estimated Disbursements:                            FY82    FY83    FY84
---(US$ Million)---
Annual                                         3.2     4.0      0.8
Cumulative                                    3.2      7.2      8.0
Rate of Return:           The rate of return is estimated at 20 percent on the
training component which represents over half of pro-
ject activities. A rate of return is not applicable
on other components.
Closing Date:             June 30, 1984
Staff Appraisal Report:  None
Map:                      IBRD 16065






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 7.0 million (US$8.0 million)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical Assistance Project in the
petroleum sector.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN, issued
in May 1979) was the result of a basic economic mission which visited the
country in the fall of 1977. The paragraphs below are based on this report,
but include updated information, including information provided by an IMF
mission that visited Benin in June 1981. Annex I provides basic country
data.
Introduction
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revolution in 1972,
which brought to power the military Government of President Kerekou. The new
regime removed foreign dominance from the modern sector and strengthen the
Government's involvement in the agricultural sector, but these measures
initially disrupted the economy since there was an inadequate number of
trained Beninese to replace the departing expatriates. Yet, the Government
also pursued conservative financial policies, which resulted in budgetary
surpluses and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at generally less than
5 percent.
4.         Benin has now enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a one-party system. Following the adoption of a new consti-
tution, Lieutenant Colonel Kerekou was confirmed in early 1980 as President
of the Republic for a three-year term by the National Assembly. President
Kerekou has in turn appointed a Government composed mainly of civilians.
5.        The nation is entering a period of moderate growth propelled by
major investments in the industrial sector. But Benin's near-term prospects
1/   The text of this section is a revised and updated version of that
included in the President's Report for the Cotonou Water/Sanitation
Engineering Project which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 5, 1981.



-2-
should be assessed with caution, because they are dependent on a few key
factors: the Nigeria and Niger markets, success of key industrial projects,
and the pursuit of a prudent budgetary policy.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Although Benin enjoyed an average annual real GDP growth rate of
4.5 percent and a sound financial position over the 1976-80 period, it
remains a poor country with a GNP per capita of $320 per annum and a popu-
lation of 3.4 million (1980). Between 1976 and 1980 exports of goods and
non-factor services increased from $103 million to $243 million, but because
of an even higher rise in imports and deteriorating terms of trade, the
resource gap remained at about 20 percent of GDP during this period. An
important part of the resource gap was financed by a sustained inflow of
workers' remittances and capital grants but there was also a modest but rising
reliance on medium- and long-term borrowing, largely on concessionary terms.
7.        Agriculture, which generates about 45 percent of GDP, has stagnated
since 1970. With respect to export crops, cotton peaked in 1972 at 50,000
tons, but has since fallen to around 20,000 tons. Palm oil production con-
tinued to increase until the mid-1970s but output has been reduced since a
severe drought in 1977. Institutional changes, not very remunerative producer
prices, lack of financial resources, and the absence of technical assistance
are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of export crops.
Foodcrop production has fared somewhat better because of rising demand from
Nigeria. Performance in agriculture is, however, slowly improving under
renewed Government support through producer price increases, mainly for
cotton. and more reliance on market forces in general. Also with better
climatic conditions, output of foodcrops (in particular maize and cassava) is
projected to have increased in 1981. Regarding exports crops, cotton produc-
tion could rise provided inputs such as fertilizer are provided on time.
Output of palm oil and kernels is expected to continue to recover gradually
from the 1977 drought.
8.        The second.ary sector is still undeveloped due to lack of skilled
manpower, a small local market, and institutional constraints. It contributes
about 10 percent to GDP, and consists mostly of processing of agricultural
products and import-substitution activities. The sector achieved an 11
percent annual growth rate during 1972-76, but slowed down to 5 percent during
1977-81 due to a fall-off in Nigerian demand, and because many state-owned
industrial enterprises are experiencing operational and financial problems.
Currently Benin is beginning to strengthen its industrial base through several
major projects: the Onigbolo cement factory, the Save sugar plant, and the
Seme offshore oil development project (paras 44-53), which should rekindle
growth in the secondary sector.
9.        The tertiary sector (mainly commerce, transport, and public ser-
vices) accounts for about 45 percent of GDP. The bulk of this sector consists



-3-
of commercial activities which mostly remain in private hands. Their sus-
tained growth for the past several years testifies to the dynamism of the
private sector, and reflects the important role of Benin as a trading center.
Concerning transport, the port of Cotonou has traditionally provided access
to the sea for landlocked Niger and the western part of Nigeria. IDA led
a group of co-financiers in a major expansion of the port facilities. After
increasing rapidly in recent years, the traffic volume through Cotonou port
has shown signs of leveling off.
10.       As a result of a prudent budgetary policy, the government has been
running current surpluses averaging about CFAF 5 billion during the 1976-80
period. It followed a policy of preventing a real increase in current expen-
ditures between 1972 and 1979 through limits on salaries of civil servants,
and by holding down maintenance expenditures. However, the overall budgetary
position has been in deficit, because of substantial and rising investment
expenditures, and stepped up government lending to state enterprises. In 1980
the overall deficit of the central government budget rose to CFAF 15 billion,
nearly four times the average level of the previous four years, financed
almost entirely from concessionary foreign sources. The large deficit was due
to lagging revenue collections, a general salary increase, and stepped up
investment expenditures to implement the 1978-80 Development Plan. In 1981
the overall deficit is projected to increase to CFAF 36 billion, because of an
increase in lending to largely unprofitable state enterprises from CFAF 10
billion in 1980 to CFAF 25 billion, and a sharp increase in current expendi-
ture. Foreign borrowing would have to more than double to cover the deficit.
This trend cannot continue if Benin is to avoid debt servicing problems over
the medium term.
11.       The deteriorating financial conditions of major state enteprises
has become a great concern for the government. It responded by setting up
a new Ministry for the Inspection of Public and Semi-public Enterprises to
supervise the operations of state enterprises. The Minister also chairs the
newly-formed Commission Nationale de Bilan which reviews the financial
situation of each state enterprise. In a series of reforms, the government
has already replaced the management of several important state enterprises,
tightened their access to credit, and imposed new salary guidelines.
12.       In the area of prices, the government strives to ensure relatively
low prices for basic foodstuffs and essential goods, for the benefit of the
urban population. In general, however, prices are market determined and
the authorities have limited their interventions to essential commodities. In
an open economy like Benin with an active cross-border trade and a thriving
private sector, comprehensive price controls are bound to be unsuccessful.
Thus, emphasis is being placed on maintaining orderly conditions in the
commercial sector and on regulating profit margins.  The increased economic
activity induced by the start up of major industrial projects is likely to
exert some pressures on prices in the next few years, with an annual inflation
rate of about 11 percent projected for 1981-82.



-4-
13.       The government is committed to promoting social welfare, but a key
concern hitherto has been to keep wages and salaries low because of limited
public revenues and in order to stem rural-urban migration. In real terms,
both public and private sector salaries have declined. However, in early
1980, the government adopted a number of measures aimed at raising real
incomes of wage earners. These included raising the minimum wage rates in
the private sector by 15 percent and in the public sector by 11 percent.
Despite these measures, which were taken after several years of frozen
salaries, Benin is one of the few countries in Africa where the urban-rural
income gap has not widened in recent years. But lower wages than in neigh-
boring countries have led to emigration of educated and skilled labor, which
has contributed to Benin's manpower problems.
14.       Benin's balance of payments position is characterized by a large and
growing deficit on goods and services, financed by foreign grants and external
borrowing, with the latter increasing in recent years. In 1980, the trade
balance worsened considerably because of sharply higher imports of capital
equipment relating to the major industrial projects. However, the shortfall
was offset by a larger volume of official grants and external borrowing.
Consequently, the overall deficit was only CFAF 0.4 billion. For 1981, a
further large increase in imports of capital goods is expected. Along with
weak export performance and stagnating transfer receipts, the current account
deficit is projected to reach CFAF 42.5 billion [16 percent of GDP], a 70
percent increase over 1980. The overall deficit would increase to CFAF 3.1
billion, in spite of a near doubling in foreign loan disbursement.
Development Plan
15.       A Three-Year Plan (1978-80) was issued in October 1977, setting out
the government's economic goals. Its objectives were to raise the standard of
living, to strengthen economic policies and to promote participation in the
preparation and implementation of economic and social changes. The Plan favors
large-scale projects, the major projects being: the Cotonou Port extension
(US$50 million) financed by IDA and seven other agencies; a 40,000 ton sugar
project at Save (US$210 million); a 500,000 ton cement plant at Onigbolo
(US$159 million); and the Seme offshore oil development project (US$130 mil-
lion). These projects together account for about 50 percent of Plan invest-
ment. Work on the Cotonou Port is almost completed, but has suffered from
cost overruns. The sugar and cement projects are joint ventures with the
Nigerian government, with Nigerian marketing and financing guarantees. The
production of sugar, cement and oil should start in late 1982.
16.       Plan implementation has achieved less than 50 percent of its objec-
tives. Major difficulties include inadequate project preparation, coordina-
tion, and execution control, as well as delays in obtaining foreign financial
commitments. Recently, however, the government has succeeded in accelerating
commitments from foreign aid donors, and total public investment is likely to
be aroung US$750 million in the five-year period 1978-82. As a result, the
ratio of investment to GDP is estimated to have risen from 20 percent of GDP
in 1976 to 25 percent in 1981, with most of the increase accounted for by
investment in the major projects.



- 5 -
17.       Benin is now going through a period of consolidation during which
results of the 1978-80 plan are being assessed. For 1981, the government is
implementing an Interim Plan for Investment and Production. Another interim
plan is being drafted for 1982, pending the coming on stream of the next
development plan, probably covering the period 1983-85. The latter is con-
ceived within the framework of a development strategy for the decade 1980-90,
set out in a major government document which was presented at the United
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LLDCs) held in May 1981.
The ten-year development framework foresees a doubling of real GDP by 1990,
which implies an annual growth rate of 7 percent. This is rather optimistic
in light of past performance. Benin has decided to convene a donors' con-
ference in May 1982 to solicit foreign assistance. The Bank was invited
and has agreed to attend.
Prospects
18.       The medium-term economic outlook in Benin is for real GDP to grow
by 4 percent annually during the 1981-85 period. The risks to Benin's economy
are export prospects in markets of neighboring countries, the worsening
financial situation of state enterprises, and potential problems in implement-
ing the large projects. Propsects in agriculture will depend on remunerative
pricing for export crops and marketing policies for food crops. In the long
term, growth could slow down unless the government is able to channel re-
sources and orient programs (in social and economic infrastructure, training,
marketing, etc.) towards the development of food and cash crops.
19.       Benin's public finances may be subject to greater pressures during
the 1981-85 period than during the preceding five-years. Until recently,
conservative public finance and investment policies led to current budget
surpluses, and a stable trend in foreign reserves. With a growing capital
stock to maintain and pressures to increase recruitment and wages in public
sector to absorb the rising number of graduates and to prevent a drop in real
incomes, current expenditures are likely to rise faster in the future than in
the recent past. The situation is thus changing with increases in current
expenditures leading to sizeable budget deficits. The relative pause in
investment expenditure between the completion of the ongoing large projects
and the effective start of a new development plan a few years hence, should on
the contrary prevent large balance of payment deficits. Currently, implemen-
tation of the major industrial projects is proceeding satisfactorily. How-
ever, the substantial benefits that these large projects could confer on the
budget and the balance of payments will depend on the extent to which they
lead to efficient production and an ability to compete on the Nigerian market.
20.       Reflecting increased investment level, Benin's external debt (in-
cluding undisbursed) rose from US$441 million (1979) to US$719 million by
end-1980, of which about 50 percent was held by commercial banks. Of the
total external borrowing, about 40 percent went to financing of the major
cement, oil, and sugar projects. Nearly 90 percent of the US$324 million
committed during 1980 was provided by private banks, almost exclusively for
industrial projects. The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and



-6-
services is estimated to have risen from 3 percent in 1980 to 10 percent in
1981, and is projected to approach 20 percent in the mid-1980's, largely on
the basis of debt already contracted. Although comparatively high, up to two
thirds of the debt service burden is on account of industrial projects in
association with Nigeria and the related debt is mutually guaranteed by the
governments of Benin and Nigeria. Nevertheless, considering the magnitude and
remaining uncertainties of these projects, caution is required in contracting
additional foreign debt, particularly on hard terms.
21.       Because of Benin's low per capita income, limited capacity for
budgetary savings, narrow export base, and growing need for external funding
of priority projects to maintain growth, it will be necessary to increase
foreign financing on concessionary terms. For the same reasons, Benin is not
expected to be able to finance more than about 15 percent of its public in-
vestment program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
22.       To date, the Bank Group has extended thirteen credits to Benin
totalling US$124.4 million, including two supplementary credits. Four of the
credits were for agriculture (27 percent of total lending), six for road
construction and maintenance (47 percent), and one each for port expansion,
education and development of small-scale enterprises. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Benin, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
23.       IDA's first operation in Benin was the HINVI Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (FY69) which provided for oil palm plantings and foodcrop devel-
opment. The project was completed in 1974. As stated in the Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report (M78-451 of May 19, 1978), poor rainfall delayed palm tree
development, while foodcrop production remained below appraisal estimates
mostly because of labor constraints. To overcome this difficulty, an accele-
rated program of ox-drawn cultivation was initiated. Animal traction expanded
rapidly, resulting in substantial increases in maize yields. The project was
successful in assisting SONADER, the executing agency, to continue its good
performance and supporting cooperative developments. The second agricultural
credit, the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (FY72) has also been completed (Project
Performance Audit Report M78-353, April 20, 1978). This operation aimed at
expanding cotton and foodcrop production in the Zou and Borgou provinces. Due
to frequent changes in government policy, and reorganization of institutions
within the sector, the project failed to achieve its objective of increasing
cotton production. Foodcrop production, on the other hand, was expanded,
mainly in response to growing demand from neighboring Nigeria.  The third
project in the agricultural sector was the Technical Assistance Project (FY77)
designed to strengthen the country's agricultural institutions, carry out
pilot projects, conduct foodcrop research, and retrain extension services.
Although the project did not fully meet all the set objectives, it did result



in satisfactory preparation of follow-up projects in the Zou and Borgou
Provinces. A credit for the first of these, focusing on the Borgou Province,
was signed in April 1981.
24.       The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector in Benin began
in 1969, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed land
transport study. This study led to the financing of a four-year Highway
Maintenance Project in FY69. The Project Performance Audit (Report No.
M77-758 of October 25, 1977) indicated that significant strengthening of the
government department then responsible for maintenance operations occurred
under the project. The Second Highway Project (FY73), co-financed by USAID,
comprised the reconstruction of 320 km of the Parakou-Malanville road and
other short sections of the north-south trunk road, continuation of the road
maintenance program initiated under the first project, and training. The
project was satisfactorily completed. The rate of return of the Parakou-
Malanville road is estimated at 16 percent versus 13 percent at appraisal, and
30 percent versus 19 percent at appraisal, when including benefits to Niger
from its transit traffic. The Third Highway Project (FY78) provided for
further rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the Godomey-Bohicon road and
expansion of the maintenance program, including elimination of the backlog in
resurfacing bituminous laterite roads. A credit for a Fourth Highway Project,
aimed at improving the efficiency of routine and periodic maintenance and
continuing the elimination of the backlog in maintenance of laterite roads,
was signed in July 1981. The project provides for the rehabilitation of about
500 km of gravel roads and the reconstruction or resealing of about 84 km of
paved roads. A feeder road development program was initiated under the First
Feeder Road Project in FY77. This project has been completed. A second
credit to continue the program was signed in January 1981. The major objec-
tive of a Port Project approved in 1978, is to raise the cargo-handling
capacity of the port by providing additional berths, storage capacity, and
technical assistance to improve port operations. Implementation of the
project has encountered technical problems resulting in cost overruns, and the
government has obtained supplementary financing from the co-lenders.
25.       The First Education Project (FY74) emphasized the non-formal sector.
Its aim was to train rural youth and upgrade the country's vocational training
capacity. The rural youth training component is now being evaluated to
determine whether a follow-up project would be justified. A proposed Second
Education Project would consist of training for primary, secondary, and
technical school teachers, and strengthening of education planning and project
preparation and monitoring.
26.       In FY80, IDA granted a credit to the Banque Beninoise pour le
Developpement (BBD), the national development bank providing medium- and long-
term loans to both the public and private sectors. The project is aimed at
financing small- and medium-scale enterprises up to 1982, and strengthening
BBD's management and project preparation capacity.
27.       The Bank Group initiated its operation in the water supply and
sanitation sector with a Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project approved
in FY81. The project is aimed at addressing the most urgent water and sanita-
tion needs of Cotonou, and through studies, helping to define and implement
long-range sector objectives and strategies. The project also provides for



-8-
formulation of a health education program and for design and implementation
of a training program for professional staff of the Agency for Power and Water
Supply (SBEE).
28.       On the medium term, Bank Group lending in Benin is expected to
continue in sectors with existing IDA involvement, such as agriculture and
transport, and, in addition, in the urban sector. Furthermore, the Bank Group
would be initiating its operations in the petroleum sector with the proposed
project, whose objectives are training Beninese oil operating and exploration
personnel, laying the basis for the second phase development of the Seme
field, and setting a framework to induce foreign oil companies to embark on
exploration in Benin. A regional undertaking by the Governments of Benin and
Togo is planned for the Nangbeto hydroelectric project aimed at developing the
hydroelectric and irrigation potential of the Mono River, and at preparing
regional and national energy plans.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
29.       Benin's energy situation is characterized by heavy dependence on
imported petroleum products and electricity for meeting commercial energy
requirements. Moreover its forest resources are being rapidly depleted.
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
30.       Benin's energy resources are limited.  The only known hydrocarbons
resource is the Seme petroleum field (para 43). Benin has no known coal
deposits. There is currently no hydropower plant in operation. However,
several sites have been identified which could yield, on average, 750 GWh per
year. Dense forests and savannah, covering about 68,000 km2, are the major
energy source, but their indiscriminate use is leading to rapid deforestation
near cities and villages. Renewable energy sources such as solar energy or
agricultural wastes might become significant, but they are not now commer-
cially utilized.
31.       Because of low per capita income and an undeveloped industrial
sector, energy consumption in Benin (190 kg of oil equivalent per capita in
1980) is among the lowest in the world.  Traditional fuels, primarily wood
and charcoal, satisfy 72 percent of energy needs, the rest being met by
imported petroleum products (24 percent) and imported hydropower (four per-
cent). Electricity production and distribution are still at an early stage
of development. Total generating capacity includes 16 MW provided by the
Akosombo hydroplant in Ghana and 21.3 MW in diesel units of which most are
standby units in Cotonou. Electric energy supply was 109 GWh in 1980, 92
percent of which was imported.
Sectoral Institutions
32.       A number of government institutions participate in energy policy
making. The Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy supervises a state enter-
prise, Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE), the state owned power
and water utility, and Office Beninois des Mines (OBEMINES), the entity in



- 9 -
charge of developing the mining and hydrocarbon resources of the country.
The Ministry of Commerce supervises Societe Nationale de Commercialisation
des Produits Petroliers (SONACOP), a state enterprise which has a monopoly of
petroleum imports, transport and distribution. The Ministry of State Farms,
Livestock and Fisheries supervises Societe Nationale pour le Developpement
Forestier (SNAFOR), a state enterprise responsible for developing forestry
resources, promoting more efficient production of traditional fuels, and
distributing wood and charcoal. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Planning play a minor role in energy matters by administering fuel taxation
and participating in decisions on the public investment program. Energy
prices are set by a Price Committee composed of representatives of various
ministries and political organizations.
Sectoral Policies and Issues
33.       As increasing import bills for petroleum products absorb a growing
share of the limited exchange earnings, the Government's priorities in the
sector are developing indigenous energy resources and controlling the growth
of energy consumption. UNDP has agreed to finance an energy assessment
study which will address the main issues facing the sector. The Bank will
be the Executing Agency for this study.
34.       Investment.  The largest investment in the energy sector is the
Seme oil development scheme (paras 44-53). Other projects are planned in
the power subsector and for the use of wood and charcoal. The most impor-
tant power investments considered, besides the expansion of the distribution
system, include the installation of two additional 8 MW diesel units in
Cotonou and the joint-45 MW Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme with Togo on the
Mono River. This plant, whose detailed engineering studies will be financed
under a Togo-Benin power engineering credit signed in January 1982, would meet
expected growth in demand for electricity. It would also help replace elec-
tricity generated by small inefficient thermal plants. Studies to prepare
an inventory and ranking of other hydropower sites as well as a master plan
for power generation and transmission will also be financed under the proposed
IDA power engineering credit. SNAFOR is implementing a program for improving
forestry management and is preparing a 2,000 ha reforestation project.
SNAFOR is also preparing a charcoal plant project.
35.       Prices.  Electricity prices have remained unchanged since 1966,
ranging from CFAF 25 to 32 per kWh for domestic use and CFAF 13.5 per kWh plus
a fixed charge of CFAF 1250/kW for industrial uses. These prices were origi-
nally set at a relatively high level when electricity generation was only
from diesel units and the electricity company was privately owned. Since then
SBEE has been able to maintain these prices due to the import of low cost
hydropower from Ghana. However, in recent years Ghana has substantially
increased the price of its electricity sales and, moreover, SBEE has started
the development of small costly thermal-generated power plants in rural areas
so that the profit margin of SBEE has decreased significantly. A comprehen-
sive study on electricity tariffs based on marginal cost pricing will be
carried out under the proposed power engineering credit.



- 10 -
36.       Retail prices of petroleum products have remained unchanged between
1976 and early 1979, in spite of sharp rises in import prices, so that
SONACOP operated at a deficit in 1978. Prices were increased in April 1979
(42 percent for gasoline) and March 1980 (32 percent for gasoline) which made
SONACOP profitable. The present price levels of major petroleum products,
compared to those in the Ivory Coast, are summarized in the following table:
Retail Prices of Major Petroleum Products
Benin             Ivory Coast
Product               CFAF/liter    US$/gallon    CFAF/liter
Gasoline (regular)      128.0          1.81           227.0
Gasoil                  105.0          1.47           160.0
Kerosene                 75.0          1.06           105.0
Fuel Oil                 72.4          1.01            53.0
37.       The policy of the government is to set retail prices of petroleum
products at a level sufficient to cover the costs of importing and distributing
them; however, they are substantially below those prevailing in other African
countries except Nigeria. The proximity to Nigeria, where retail prices of
petroleum products are less than half the prices in Benin, in combination with
a long open border and a thriving private sector, limits Benin's capacity to
pursue an independent pricing policy. Unrecorded imports from Nigeria already
account for at least 20 percent of domestic consumption. Higher prices would
certainly increase the volume of uncontrolled imports and not have much of an
impact on the sum of tax revenue collected. The ready availability of petro-
leum from a low cost source across the border consequently places Benin in an
atypical situation, because demand for (officially) imported petroleum prod-
ucts is very price elastic.
Petroleum Subsector
38.       Benin has no domestic petroleum production and no refinery.  All
petroleum products are imported, mostly from Algeria which offers to the
country more attractive CIF prices than neighboring Nigeria.  The small size
of the domestic market and the proximity to refineries in Nigeria and Ivory
Coast do not warrant the installation of an oil refinery in the near future.
39.       Domestic consumption of petroleum products has been growing at
an average rate of about eight percent per year in the years 1975-1980.
Recorded imports of petroleum products reached about 118,000 tons in the period
July 1979-June 1980, resulting in an import bill of about US$38 million, or 15
percent of estimated merchandise exports. Consumption of petroleum products is
estimated to be 20 percent higher than recorded imports, because of unrecorded
imports from Nigeria. Imports of gasoline have increased steadily relative to
other petroleum products, reaching about one-third of petroleum products
imports in 1980. Assuming a continuation of the present trend in consumption
of petroleum products, average consumption might reach 4,000 Bbls per day
by 1985. This compares to a projected peak crude oil production of 12,000
Bbls per day from the Seme oil field in 1985. However, with the expected



- 11 -
depletion of this field, 1/ the country is projected to return to being a net
importer in the petroleum subsector by 1989, if no other fields are discovered
and exploited.
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
40.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration and production rests within
the Service des Hydrocarbures (SDH), which is part of OBEMINES (para 32). The
SDH staff comprises only seven professionals who have general knowledge
of the petroleum industry but who lack the required expertise to promote or
conduct oil exploration or undertake an oil development project. In view of
the increased responsibility placed on SDH with the development of Seme, the
government has assigned high priority to the reinforcement of SDH. Accord-
ingly, the proposed project includes training abroad of the entire professional
staff of SDH. In addition, six professionals (two geologists, two geophysi-
cists, and one economist and one lawyer) will be recruited and trained in
specialized institutes abroad.
41.       The petroleum legislation of Benin was developed in the mid-1960's.
Exclusive exploration permits are granted for three-year periods which can be
renewed three times. After commercial discovery, production concessions are
granted automatically for 25 years with a possible 10 year extension. The
state may acquire participation up to 40% interest at commercial discovery
against proportional reimbursement of prior expenditures. Royalties vary from
5% to 12.5% of wellhead value. The Government has requested that the proposed
project include services of consultants to review the legal framework for the
petroleum sector with a view to attract foreign oil companies while preserving
Benin's economic interests.
Oil Exploration History and Government Strategy
42.       The main sedimentary area covers about 15,600 km2 on land, 3,500
km2 on the continental shelf (up to a 200 m water depth) and 8,000 km2
of deep water area (200-3,000 m). The proximity to the large deposits in
Nigeria and the new discoveries in neighboring countries such as the Ivory
Coast makes the offshore oil potential promising. Currently, no oil companies
hold exploration rights. Two foreign oil companies, Union Oil (1965-1972) and
Shell Oil (1971-1975), have explored for petroleum in Benin. In addition to
geological surveys, the operators ran air and surface magnetic, gravity and
seismic surveys.   The total amount of seismic lines which have been surveyed
offshore exceeds 6,000 km. Nine exploratory wells have been drilled off-shore.
43.       In 1968, Union Oil discovered the Seme oilfield 15 km off the coast
of Benin in water depths ranging from 27 m to 54 m. In late 1973, Union Oil
proposed a development plan to the Government but negotiations fell through
and Union oil relinquished its exploration acreage, given the marginal internal
rate of return of the oil scheme by industry standards. Subsequent negotia-
tions with several oil companies did not bring about an agreement to develop
the Seme field on a concession basis, because the field at the then prevailing
1/   The average output over the expected life of the field (14 years) is
estimated at 3900 bbls per day.



- 12 -
oil prices was so marginal that the oil companies were not willing to offer
terms which the Government considered attractive. Thus the government decided
therefore to develop the field on its own and signed, in May 1979, a service
contract with SAGA Petroleum, a private Norwegian oil company which was also
keen to gain experience in this type of oil field development management. The
Government has secured financing from export credit agencies (primarily Norway)
for the first phase development (natural depletion) which is expected to be
completed by July 1983. The second phase investment (secondary recovery)
would require additional external financing and would be implemented from
mid-1983 through 1985. Since the rest of Benin's sedimentary basin is little
known and prospects appear promising, the Government has also decided to
attract foreign oil companies to explore further for petroleum both offshore
and onshore.
Seme Oil Field Development Scheme
44.       Background.  In 1976, the Benin government financed a feasibility
study of the development of Seme on the basis of new geological and geophysical
interpretation. The study, performed by SAGA, estimated the total oil-in-place
to be 124 million Bbls with ultimate recoverable reserves of 21.7 million Bbls
(9.8 million Bbls by depletion and 11.9 million Bbls by water injection). The
May 1979 service contract gave SAGA the responsibility for all field develop-
ment, production and marketing operations on behalf of the Government as well
as for securing financing for the project. Work on the project started in
April 1980. Contracts for the major equipment (jack-up platform, drilling
rig, production platforms, etc.) are awarded, and construction of the equipment
is progressing as scheduled. SAGA expects to spud the first well in June 1982.
Crude oil production should start in September 1982.
45.       Concept.  In the first phase development, five production wells will
be drilled. In the second phase, the total number of wells will be increased
to 16, six of which being used as water injection wells. The development
concept appears reasonable by industry standards. First phase equipment would
include one 3-well and one 6-well platform, a production platform, a jack-up
platform for drilling, workover, and for all offshore work, an onshore tank
farm with two 40,000 m3 storage tanks, crude oil loading facilities and asso-
ciated pipelines. In the second phase three additional 3-well platforms and
water injection facilities would be added.
46.       The major cost item among the equipment necessary to implement this
scheme is the purchase of a jack-up drilling platform (including the drilling
rig) which is being constructed at a cost of US$35 million. The decision to
own rather than rent the jack-up rig is based on the following two reasons:
First, at prevailing rental costs (US$40,000 per day), the rental expenses for
drilling and completion of the 16 planned wells would exceed the construction
cost of US$35 million (excluding mobilization cost which would run between
US$2 and 6 million); second, the jack-up rig would be used for field mainte-
nance including work-over of wells and service of the platforms and pipelines.
The annual rental fee for a work-over rig for field maintenance is estimated
to exceed US$3.6 million (excluding mobilization) while the operating costs of
the jack-up rig are estimated at about US$1.0 million per annum.



- 13 -
47.       Institutional Arrangements.  SAGA is the agent of the government for
the Seme oil development scheme (para 44). The government is represented by
OBEMINES. SAGA has formed a Norwegian subsidiary, SAGA Petroleum Benin A.S.
(SPB) with a branch office in Benin which will employ the expatriate staff.
SPB has a subsidiary registered in Benin, SAGA Benin Development S.A. (SBD)
which will employ the Beninese staff. The government finances all investment
and operating expenditures. All project assets will be owned by the govern-
ment and the latter would receive directly all revenues from the sales of oil.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from government that IDA would,
upon request, have access to the documentation and facilities of the Seme oil
development scheme (Section 3.04(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Once the field is productive, the government might decide to create a finan-
cially independent national oil company which would own all petroleum produc-
tion assets. This company would absorb SBD. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the government in the event that it establishes a national
oil company, would ask for IDA's comments on the organization and finances of
such a company, particularly concerning transfer of assets and liabilities,
including the proposed IDA credit (Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
48.       SPB's involvement in the operations of the field will end when the
Norwegian and British loans are paid back, at the latest within 10 years (para
49), when responsibility for operating the field will be transferred to Benin.
The government and SAGA negotiated the following terms for the service con-
tract: SAGA is reimbursed for its costs and will receive 4% of the gross
volume of crude produced once cumulative gross sales exceed 213% of the maxi-
mum cumulative negative cash flow of the scheme. On the basis of present
forecast of project costs and oil prices, payments to SAGA would start in
1986.
49.       Costs and Financing.  The cost for the first phase development is
now estimated at NKr 738 million (US$129 million). l/ No further major cost
increases are expected because 90% of the supply contracts have been signed
and delivery is well underway. Two Norwegian banks, Eksportfinans and Den
Norske Creditbank finance US$74 and 33 million respectively with a guarantee
from the Norwegian Export Guarantee Institute. The financial terms of the
Norwegian loans are 10 years maturity and 7.5% interest for Exportfinans, and
8 years maturity and 14.6% interest for Den Norske Creditbank, with equal
semi-annual repayments starting six months after initial production. The
Midland Bank (UK) finances US$9 million with the guarantee of ECGD (British
Export Credit Guarantee Department). The Government of Benin will pay the
remaining US$13 million (local currency component) of the investment cost.
50.       Preliminary cost estimates for the second phase development sched-
uled to start in 1983 is US$50 million. Most of the goods and services could
be procured under international competitive bidding. To evaluate the finan-
cial viability of the total scheme, consisting of these two phases, it has
been assumed that the foreign exchange component of the second phase (esti-
mated at 90% of the investment) would be financed on Bank terms and the local
component would be paid by the Benin Government.
1/   Based on an exchange rate of US$1.00 = NKr 5.73, as of August 1, 1981.



- 14 -
51.       Economic and Financial Evaluation.  The rates of return of the Seme
oil development scheme under various hypotheses are summarized in the following
table. The economic rate of return of the scheme is the return on the total
investment; the economic rate of return to the government differs from the
former only in that the expenditures financed by the Norwegian and UK banks
are replaced by the debt service payments as the funds provided by these banks
are tied to the project and would not be otherwise available to the government;
the financial rate of return on Benin government investment is also shown.
Two cases are considered: the most probable case where water injection
would be feasible with an expected output equal to 21.7 million Bbls and the
low case where water injection would not be feasible and expected output
limited to 9.8 million bbls. It has been assumed that oil prices would
increase at 3% per annum in real terms from a mid-1981 crude oil price of
US$34/Bbl.
Economic
Economic Rate of      Rate of Return        Financial
Return of Scheme   to the Government   Rate of Return
Most Probable Case         38.7%                 62.7%                114%
Low Case                   26.9%                 53.5%                 87%
52.       The economic rate of return of the scheme is not high by industry
standards for an oil development project. This rate of return would be
reduced to 32.7% and 20.9% for the most probable and low case respectively if
oil prices are assumed to stay constant in real terms, and to 35.3% and 22.9%
respectively if investment costs increase by 10%.
53.       The scheme would yield the Benin government a net accumulated cash
flow of US$825 million over the life of the project in the most probable case
and US$211 million in the low case. The maximum government exposure would be
US$18 million (in 1982) in both cases. The total crude oil fee paid to SAGA
would be US$45 million, or 5.5% of the net accumulated cash flow accruing to
Benin in the most probable case and US$11 million or 5.2% of the net accumulated
cash flow accruing to Benin in the low case.
IDA's Role
54.       The government's approach to the development of the petroleum
subsector is sound and cautious. Its success will depend in part on training
enough Beninese personnel to operate the Seme oil field and on strengthening
the sectoral institutions. The Norwegian government, which has financed the
major share of the equipment and services for the first phase, has indicated
that it would not extend its financing to the training of Beninese staff nor
to the second phase. IDA's role would therefore be (a) to complement the
existing financing for Seme by funding the training program for the Beninese
employed in the Seme oil field, and the studies necessary to prepare the
secondary recovery phase for which the government is expected to seek, inter
alia, World Bank Group financing, (b) to assist in the planning and supervi-
sion of the training program and (c), to assist the government in promoting



- 15 -
exploration offshore, in strengthening the capability of its staff in
negotiating with oil companies, and in monitoring their activities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Benin in October 1979, and was appraised in July 1981. Credit
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on November 30-December 4, 1981.
The Beninese Delegation was headed by Mr. Barthelemy Ohouens, Minister of
Industry, Mines and Energy. A credit and project summary appears at the
beginning of this Report, and a supplementary project data sheet is given in
Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Objectives and Description
56.       The main objectives of the proposed technical assistance project are
to: (a) finance a training scheme ensuring efficient development and produc-
tion of the Seme field as well as eventually the smooth transfer of its
operations to Benin; (b) strengthen OBEMINES in order to ensure that it can
fulfill its responsibilities of monitoring operations at the Seme field,
promoting further exploration, negotiating exploration contracts with oil
companies, monitoring these activities and advising the government, (c) assist
the government in exploration promotion, and (d) finance studies for the
second phase (water injection) of the Seme oil field development. The pro-
posed project comprises the following:
(a)  Training Beninese personnel for operating the Seme oilfield.  Under
this component about 220 nationals (including turnover) would be
trained during the period of 1981 to 1983 to enable the Beninese
eventually to run the full operations of the Seme oilfield, which
would be operated largely by expatriates during the first several
years.
The program consists of:
(i)  construction of a training center and provision of training
materials; and
(ii)  training for all workers and foremen in the oil training center
and abroad in order to acquaint the Beninese with specific
drilling activity, production equipment and practices, mainte-
nance and safety regulations; and training of senior staff
abroad;
The training expenses incurred after 1983 would be financed by
revenues from crude oil production which is expected to start in the
second half of 1982.



- 16 -
(b) Training six Beninese professionals (two geologists, two geophysi-
cists, one petroleum economist, and one petroleum lawyer) in 1982
and 1983, so as to build a team of capable staff who would help
the Government on technical, economic, and legal matters that are
related to petroleum exploration. By the end of June 1982, the
Government will provide IDA for its approval a training program and
a list of professional staff to be trained (Section 3.06 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
(c) Exploration Promotion. This component would finance:
(i) The employment of exploration consultants to: (a) review and
interpret existing geophysical and geological data; (b) prepare
a work program for new seismic surveys offshore (see ii) and
reprocessing of existing seismic data; (c) promote exploration
acreage to interested oil companies; (d) negotiate contracts;
and (e) monitor the activities of operating companies;
(ii) a seismic program of 1,400 line-km reconnaissance seismic
surveys in an offshore area limited to roughly a 1,000 m subsea
contour line; and
(iii) legal consultants to assist the Government in reviewing and
updating the existing petroleum code, in preparing a model
agreement, and in negotiating exploration agreements.
(d) Engineering Studies. This component would finance:
(i) an independent reservoir engineering study, which would
be terminated by early 1983, to evaluate the applicability
of secondary recovery to the Seme field;
(ii) detailed engineering of a water injection platform and facili-
ties.
Drilling of the first five production wells is scheduled to start in June
1982. As the wells are drilled and completed, they will be put on production
tests to provide additional data for the reservoir engineering study. The
continuous production is scheduled to start in October 1982. SAGA's initial
reservoir engineering study predicts that the bubble point pressure will be
reached in the fourth quarter of 1983, when the water injection program
(Second Phase Development) should be initiated in order to ensure optimum
crude oil recovery. In view of the long lead time involved in constructing
the water injection platform and the required facilities, and the desire of
the Government not to close down the field and forego the associated revenues,
the detailed engineering design should start before the preliminary results of
the reservoir engineering are available. The detailed engineering design is
expected to start in June 1982, and be completed by December 1982 at a cost of
US$700,000. The preliminary results of the reservoir engineering study will
be available in October 1982 when US$250,000 would have been incurred for the



- 17 -
detailed engineering. It has therefore been agreed to limit expenditures to
US$250,000, unless the Association and the government agree on the basis of
the preliminary recommendations that water injection is feasible (Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Status of Project Preparation
57.       SPB has been preparing the training component with the funds of a
US$500,000 advance from the PPF. SPB subcontracted in July 1981 all train-
ing, other than drilling training, to a specialized training contractor who
was selected following IDA procedures. SPB has subcontracted the drilling
training to the drilling contractor for the Seme field. The government has
retained SAGA as its exploration consultants. 1/ SAGA geologists have started
to collect and review existing geophysical data and are preparing a seismic
program. In particular SAGA is carrying out test reprocessing of some seismic
lines from Union Oil and Shell data. Up to September 30, 1981 the expendi-
tures incurred under the first PPF for preparation of training and exploration
promotion were US$447,000. The remaining US$53,000 will be incurred before
the end of 1981. The government was granted a second advance of US$500,000
from the PPF to finance further training and exploration promotion expendi-
tures until expected credit signature in April 1982.
Cost Estimate
58.     The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$9.95 mil-
lion equivalent; the foreign cost component is US$8.25 million (83% of pro-
ject cost) and the local cost component is estimated at US$1.7 million equiva-
lent. The training costs are based on the contract signed in July 1981 by
Benin government with the specialized training contractor. The average cost
per man-month per trainer is US$10,000 which is acceptable. The costs for
the seismic survey (US$1,700,000) are based on detailed estimates for mobi-
lization and demobilization and for actual offshore seismic work for 1,400
line-km, and include processing and supervision costs. The exploration
promotion component would also require 6 man months of exploration consultants
at US$15,000/man month. The engineering studies are expected to require 17
man-months at US$15,000 per man-month for the reservoir engineering study and
58 man-months at US$12,000 per man-month for the engineering design study
respectively. These rates are reasonable taking into account the high level
of specialized expertise required and the fees prevailing in the petroleum
industry. The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10 percent on
all project components. Price contingencies of 9%, 8.5% and 7.5% for foreign
expenditures made respectively in 1981, 1982, and 1983, and 10% for local
expenditures in the same years have been applied to all costs. Total contin-
gencies amount to US$1.85 million or 23% of the base project cost.
1/   The contract between SAGA and the government of Benin stipulates that SAGA
shall abstain from any first round acreage bidding, to avoid a potential
conflict of interest.



- 18 -
Financing
59.       The proposed credit of US$8.0 million would finance the foreign
cost component of the project, with the exception of the reservoir engineering
studies. The European Investment Bank would provide a loan on terms of 10
years maturity with a three-year grace period at 2 percent for the reservoir
engineering studies estimated to cost US$250,000. The Benin government would
cover the local cost component (US$1.7 million equivalent). It would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit that the Association be notified by
the EIB that any conditions precedent to the first disbursement under the EIB
Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this proposed Credit, have
been fulfilled (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
60.       The timely implementation of the training program requires that the
training center be operational in March 1982. In order to meet that deadline,
the government had to contract for a prefabricated training center and various
equipment by mid-December 1981. For these reasons, advance contracting for
about US$0.5 million and retroactive financing up to US$300,000 are recom-
mended to cover expenditures as of December 1, 1981 (Schedule 1, paragraph
4(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
61.       SPB, assisted by the specialized training contractor and the drill-
ing contractor, would implement the training component on behalf of the Benin
government. SPB would also assist OBEMINES in preparing exploration acreage
in Benin for bidding by other companies. Contracts for civil works, equipment
estimated to cost more than US$150,000 and for the seismic survey would be
awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/
IDA guidelines for procurement. Contracts for civil works and equipment esti-
mated to cost US$150,000 or less would be procured under limited international
tendering. The selection of consultants would be in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Disbursements would be
made against 80 and 50 percent of local expenditures for equipment and the
training center, respectively, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for all
items. A condition of disbursement for the seismic work would be submission
of a program satisfactory to OBEMINES and IDA (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounting and Reporting
62.       OBEMINES requires that SPB keeps adequate separate project accounts.
The project accounts would be audited by external auditors acceptable to
OBEMINES and the Association, and the audit reports would be submitted no
later than six months after the close of the Benin fiscal year starting with
1981. OBEMINES would submit quarterly and annual reports on implementation of
the Project in a format acceptable to the Association. OBEMINES would also
submit a project completion report not later than six months after the Closing
Date of the credit.



- 19 -
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The training program would enable Beninese eventually to operate
the Seme oil field rather than having it under a full service contract as at
present with foreign inputs for even simple labor tasks. It would reduce
operating costs, due to substantially lower wage and benefit payments. Taking
into account only the quantifiable benefits, the economic rate of return of
the training program is estimated to be at least 20 percent. 1/ The intangi-
ble benefits consist in a transfer of technical knowledge to Beninese, which
would benefit potential subsequent projects. The training program is well
designed, and represents only about 4 percent of the cost of the first phase
development of US$129 million, a reasonable percentage. The risk to the
project is the potential emigration of trained Beninese personnel to neighbor-
ing countries (Ivory Coast, Nigeria) to work in the oil industry there, if
they are not paid adequately in Benin. Assurances have been obtained from the
Benin government that, by the end of December 1982, it will have formulated
adequate pay scales for its nationals working in the oil industry (Section
3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement), and that it will take all
measures necessary to ensure that the professionals to be trained will take up
employment in the country's petroleum sector for a minimum period of five
years after completion of their respective training programs (Section 3.06(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.       The benefits of the exploration promotion component would be to help
Benin in attracting private capital for oil exploration and development. The
risk is that the seismic data might uncover leads which are insufficiently
attractive to spur widespread industry interest. However, given the current
energy market conditions, the interest of oil companies, and the existence of
the Seme oilfield, the proposed exploration promotion is expected to draw a
good response from the oil companies.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association and the Recommendation of the committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
1/   The costs are those of the training component.  The gains are the savings
in wage and benefit payments by employment of Beninese rather than expa-
triates, which still are substantial after taking into account that the
wages of Beninese would be competitive with those of neighboring countries.
This calculation does not include the residual value of the training
center and the training equipment.



- 20 -
66.       Features of the Development Draft Credit Agreement of special
interest are listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of
credit effectiveness would be that the Association be notified by the EIB that
any conditions precedent to the first disbursement under the EIB Loan Agree-
ment, except for the effectiveness of the IDA Agreement, have been fulfilled.
The draft Development Credit Agreement sets out the following special condi-
tions of disbursements: (i) for the seismic survey, a detailed program
satisfactory to OBEMINES and IDA would be prepared; and (ii) for the engineer-
ing studies, no disbursements beyond US$250,000 would be made unless the
Association and the Government agree on the basis of the preliminary recommen-
dations of the reservoir engineering studies that water injection is feasible.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 21, 1982



- 21 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE0AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            112.6                                MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      10.2              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0       120.0     250.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      39.9        54.0      67.5                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
OPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  2049.8       2645.6   3425.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.5         12.6       13.9                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       17.7        23.5       30.4                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.6       264.0     326.7                  73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        45.3      46.0                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                         53.3        52.0      51.3                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.7        2.7                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.6        2.9                  2.6                     2.8
URBAN                              5.8         5.4        3.9                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     50.5        49.2       48.7                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.5        21.9       18.5                 19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.3        3.3                  3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          95.0       101.0       97.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        96.0       98.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.0        53.0       51.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0        15.0       13.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        32.2       25.4                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.2         42.4       46.7                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       21.0                 23.9                    27-4
URBAN                               ..          ..       50.0                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       16.0                 18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        14.0        ..                  26.2
URBAN                               ..        83.0         ..                 63.5
RURAL                               ..         1.0         ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         23031.3     28447.1  26883.3                31911.8                 13044.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2860.1   3035.9                 3674.9                   2$88.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            747.6       846.9    735.5                 1238.8                   10Q8.4
URBAN                            538.1       231.6    393.9                  272.8                   423.0
RURAL                            779.5      2185.5    1134.6                1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        30.2       17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 22 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GRMPS (WEIGHTED AVE5GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 26.0         40.0      60.0                   56.4                     73.7
MALE                  38.0        55.0       78.0                  70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                15.0        25.0       42.0                  50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          5.0      12.0                   10.0                     16.2
MALE                   2.0         8.0       18.0                  13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0        7.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  13.0           4.1        6.0                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0         44.0       55.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                          23.0         26.0      31.0/d                 25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         8.0         11.0/e      ..                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          4.6        5.4                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.2         32.1      46.5                   32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..        0.1                   1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL,
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0          0.8        0.3                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2           0.4         ..                   1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1048.9       1285.7    1572.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   45.4         45.1       44.2                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              54.0         49.7       46.4                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0         11.8      15.5                    8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.2        48.6       45.9                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                 57.1         54.3       52.0                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                               45.5         43.1       40.0                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0        1.1                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.4/c          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7T7          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    S.S            .. 5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.87           ..         .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       84.0                  84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..       82.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIHATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  39.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       65.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unlesa  otherwiae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Eatirmate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Population;  /d 1975;  /e 1973.
May, 1981



- 23 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
PagSe 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL MItCATORS
Notes   Although the tat  org dnou  froo Iource. generaiiy tudged the  ost authoritative and reliable, in aheuld also be outed that they may oat be inter-
nationaly 1   aataiebecause of the    kI Itch           ..of ..naudardt.ed  de.ile..o..o cunet  oeed by difrn    ucti1i uleto               Ih data.  The data ate,voe
the let., aen..  no rd_eonru   orde_   fmgnitude, leduan  trends, ond  uartero   nento 00 ondIte__
The .eer .c g.ou.. are .11 iesae     c         -topf p rf ahe oubje-  on...try aol (2) aconun. ry gogup with aoe-ha-  higher -rr-ge  --0m  then the cu.ntry group
Tg the  uhjcn  onry(nat fur 'Patn!ol uplua Oil Enporters'  group uhere  Middle Incom   Notch Agrica aod Middl,E- Bt"Is  rhosen                        ...a.a of atr.ngor
sooo-cltcelaP Ivtuo)    T  the -oleeun   g-ou  data . ate   .ea.e  are Ppoplatie weighted o-Inhuent tean  for  -h indi-ato   end shew   volt cst
ma)-vloy oP the  cetnta1  I- a group boo data. funthan  -ndlotor.  Sinc  the ....erage .          tctsnucgteIdcvn   eed   nteoulhlt   OOt
aod  t ou  uniuo,cautet cot  e   ruched iIn ocan lug anon ages vf one indicator toeuie.      Theeevrgn,r  coOp usfl                           deopcu   thevloo
aritd icator at I tine  mogthe  -outry and ne-eree gru-ps.
LAND AREA (,hou...od eqin.)                                                                        Popole.ti-pmr loop: tl led - totl,  rtec, asP rua-         -Ppiet1    1c
oTalI - Totlst     -t rs upninlog laud araudbadnoet                                                 no.ud tonal ) dolind by titer  -ep-oti- o-bero                  pnlhde
Aniunrl-Itiat  of ag...ca            I tonl -re   loo  teporriy   on termanac              ..avilab le It public  , eo  pivate general an - peniah_d hospita  ondre-
Poe ..oPe, ya-tore.            -dr aol h-tbe   gurdoe  or So li  fallo; 1979 data.              bhtlalue er.               nntoeneeIab           eimtag pe--tetly ute tied
by oh Irent oe ph-'ioi-n  Cut-blih .ento  providing pnlnutp-lycua-t
ANMPERt CAPITA (it) - liP yen  -aptita ecti"atc  an  ..cen  tkrt polec ...a.l-                       dia  oars ore no  Inclded.  Rural hospitals,I hon.noer,i arhlt
calarel by ogre. --nerioa mthod at World Bath Ania  (1977-79 bosio); 19h0,                         and medica. nttr  noroenaetly  -taff.. by a psInIIe (but by
190, od 190ug,mdical.. aeieno, canoe, e1idfl  sin.  which olef                                                                                               c-ain _tro
lotion  eud peeide a lImIted ronge  fmaia  tenlite1             ,pee eaIs-
fEOECTYCONSIMFPTION PEIR CAPI   - ftAulo.s.p.       o  of -nconLa1 ..eegy  tcg                        ital P~pu-ps   urban hoptis lual  WHOff prfoniptl(grterol heapilnlo,
end lignite, ponul tc,oan 1 goo god hydro-,muea  ale geonbe..a  eie,-                              and ruraIlmhsital9 local or  _a1a heapit.l  anId eedioa1 and mat-nily
tron)io kilogoan  o,f coo  ItuoalotPer.        pt;16,170   r   99r en   Speialieed hrapia.la  r   tldd  oyalrtenl
from hospitele divided by the ruehec Of brds.
POPULIATION AND2 VlT.L STATISTICS
Total Bvpt§~~p4yp,rtOd-tear  thousonde) - ~Au of July 1; 1960. 1970,..ad 1979      vOUSING
data.                                                                 Araroac tiet~~~~~A   of gnnhid Ipercoec .p.r houeol)-tonel u'rbac, and rrl
qBrinPplo   pecn   fttl  - RItio of uoboo to toto1 popaltor                                           easho   -uaitha  g a group of ledividutlo nbh  htherelnn               tr
doffeteot defii         of urban ocean say effect ncumpuohiliry of doto                         -ol their  al intu        A hoarder on lodger may no map nor be  ri lI
oet   enre;1960. 1970, end 1970 boo,.                                                  the h.aehol  fortanallpupa.
?ocnlacioe Projeocioco                                                  A~verage numbero   pe espr om - "totl, aa,ad r.... .Average  ae
Po o icni  teen 2110 - ocre-t popalooton proj nniogo gr  based onII9,                     bar of Persons Pre  000  in all arbor  an I--ioruie   oe tio.a.
toa   oaltby aE. end urerd thit   mortality Ian  tenility, note.                     d.elIgo  tepoino1y.  Dcellinga torlaltt-emaen   trutae  end
Peojenriot ponorn..ees for  -ortaIty  -o-c  oompris of three lees s--1eonpe  prs
lag ltfr enpe--yo an birth u-r--itog   ith co-tny'. sper t-pita  iooms                      A....sono  Fleertctnvt1 fr rrt  of dreIi...)-  oa,ara,td  ue
leve,  and feal  lfeeuecany1thtfngot7.5 Ye-re.  Tie Para                                      Perveti ...aI dwellings .lth elentrigity in IiiOtf q-t-rt-ntao
enesfo ysnl o  none altohave thros ... .s.e ....omi     . decin   oof  -onl, unbar, .d rurl d-tliloga rspertively.
fen  ls    netg oritrom   leve  and past family plar..r   pe ,rfer.co.ts
Both --tuoinvt  then aaeigned  oe of theeetoeoe-binatinna of                              EDUoit fCIATION
and fo-tilcy t-edt  cr projennler p-rp-se.                                                  Adinoted Oeo-11et Ontins
Snatonen ....y     ioeIoaIato           y PoplatIon rihe it on gronnh siec                        riay  roo    tonal, maleandpl fmle, -_Grttoo,ml  and...to-tals
th .i irate  in eqooI - tho death rate, ad elso the Age  trruour  orIerll t ofeio                                     tteprmr   ee   0prenae   freeto
metrertottat.  Pitt Ia a-hi.-d  01y after Rertility rate  darline  to                           primary soboni-age pepulAtino;nral    'nllonlde    ge  6-li
the relrnu   leve It unit oa  repredonti- rate, cie. etch g..ertetlon                           -ear  but adutrd fordftrn  legh'fpIay euctin;to
of e.... on...oc.a it-tIt enartlp,  The stationary popalonfoc aleee                               eunIeee i       nterslIdot..nion en ietmy   teersd AOl pseo-t
colue   ntAn batto of the P-j-otod ch--artrtlcn ef tbc popo1lacotlcetm    up_                                 r  below or above t       fficial ahou1 age.
Io the year 2000, aol the  -un  oP d-liue of fertiliti  rate toceprce-                        Se..edaIF o_hoo -roai maeal eae     ep,td as abor; secodar
Neonsaioay_pop,latiot ir -e_chd - The pear ohm  etotloocay population                              prnidre  ge.eeea. --oti-nal, or toooh-errianiag i           otintfr pnpik
ai bee   heac reahed                                                                            usu y Of 12 to 17 yeors of age; oo---neooerr  era genr-aly
Psn 00. ht      pl-po  pop-irto  per.. tors kil...eten  (ill h-ctr-) of                         V-coiona       -1nohn-  (--rent of aeredat;   Voneitto.ti institoti...
toa  ar;1967, 17enlopdt.irolds tschninsl, industrial, or riber yror-t   whioh op-ran  ind.prd
Per ao. Am. agoi-t-ai l bed - Computed at ehone for ognicolture1 land                              soupy Or at depensen..na of.teo..o.          ttmrtn a
yelp; 1960, 1972 aud 1978 Iota.                                                                _oi-ece   aio-piay  n   aanondsy - TOotM                   idnn   noldi
Ppalaiu       t Inorr (eoni  - Cbild... (0-14 pyara), wnking-age (15-                                pei'sar  and s-ondlry levels dBvidsd by  -ube-  of te...irna i.thib
Ic   er),alrttid (65 pro.o ..   ve)a  pnete f old-poor Peru--                               .....apoodig lesi.. I
ison  1960, 190, al1979 dn.Adult litsnay noir (percent) - Literate olulte  al   oradadeis
Poalairu       othBle(roet)-toa  - An-u1 groctl nant.  of toto1 mid-                                 Itapero-tage  of total adit population tged ON Feena tad over.
year populatiloto ion 1950-60, li-96l7, nod 1970C-79.
Pnalanto itoorth fat  (Perc ent) - urban  - At-I greth raise of urban pep-                    CONSUtPTION
latn   for_ 1950-hO, 1960-0, and 1970-79.                                                    PasaranCoro (nor thousan.d"nplte)-fasges race onpismtur
mode Birth ote (yen thousad) - Annoo1  Ior biriho per thousan d our-srtnesigless than sight persos ....                                         la~denablan         bearses end
P.pulotio; 0960, 1970, aol 09777 dao.                                                            milittanyv-hlle..
Prods Teeth lat    P,sr thousand) - Aunno1 d-tha per th-...nds of nil-pear                      ladlet OsceiveroI,' (v thrieamd popoatiot) - All types of --ni-oer  for radie
pepalotion; 1060, 190,od 179 dana                                                               b .  isedoate to generalT pubio per  tosn    f  .poplatine; aoludes a-
GranlrrdaernBaeA..ug   cobe otf duaghteratou   tl   ea  nlionnad                                                        J.rvraI  eoneisad is Yeaa mien  -gisteanirn of radio
her    LM Ph'.lftIr foma  rpdetive- periold if oh   operie..ce. present mge-apefoPe-_na wa  iv offent; data  o  enr  years mop not beomp-rbleIdn..
tiliprantse; .... ally fteysnaeagseding in~ 19600, 1970, aed 1979.                              me. an --nies abolished litoennia
Pemip lanir    Acction  Annual (rbo-seeds) - Annual eanhr of toI pen                             P Teeles(e   iosn   n sin                    TV n-ostoers fgr bs.adnas to1
of birth-con.trol devie Its  nos picco of ntrional  foel  paniog. pr.g.m.                         enrl pbig pr rhout-d  peolotion  eeldIneelSt ernd TV eenivee
Pamb PlanimaCasr loeosuSof mrrie  -re)-Preege of maoied                                     inetneadin  an.               icrgsrto    fT   mtrnI   fes
roe  o   hild-b earing age (15-44 pears) who oar birth-oe.tiol devioss to                                                                         h..ae  tclnir(esron rnlno)-len   i   vrg 
i mrrIedr wmnitoeaogaP.                                                                          caaieo   diygnslitrs   eo e"*dfined asperindina1
pnbliootion dvted yrielp !Ito recordiogtgeger-j  -n.  it is ceotiderad
FDOi ANDP NUTRITION                                                                                  tobe  dal'iitaPpear  at                t fou  tines  teesh
Oudeo ot Peed Psouto  pnty o(16-1-llI) - Inda of par capita annual                               Bliem  Aun"' Attendenon per a-O- terr Year - aE-d o h  nuberf
produtio    f  l  fond  osedriles.  Prodonien  -ocldee teed and feel -nd                         siklena aod during tie pear, incodiag aosaeato driv-lu rt-ea
it on c-leid- poo  baaOo.  Poemdltieso-er primary goods (e.g. augarna.                           andmoile unite.
tnot-ad of nrgar)  htch are edible audcoeain nutients (e.g. -offa. end
tea err Ieoldld).  Aggrgegte producio  uf sobh -ruty in ha...d on                           LABORB PORCE
raional  -vrs.e producer prict noigits; 1961-61, 0970, and 1979 dnca.                         Total Lahop Pore. (nboasnnda  - Eoumamloally aitive Pr,or,,,.,          nin
Pro capita covyofolrtu(eretf erenie                      t)- Computd fromann  fortes and I.t.plpe.d bat  moludltg bo.u_senisa Itudna,,t                                  to.
.eirgy e,i-ulemt of oet find spplien avoilable in coutry per neyteu                           o           ....gpoultion of oll ages.  Osfinitloun  in _ano_  cete is  on
par dry.  Avuilblab   -uppli-t -opnu-  doueatii  production, imports lest                     nte  -opa-bin; 1900. 1970 aed 1979 dana
rxporto  an   dhogni  'tenth,Nse  muPPllsso  lade anima  feed,                                       2eteeda  eae pret    F-IPea, lhop  toru  at per-tige of total labon forts.
Iu..ta   oe  is fnvd pr-csang  adloe   nd iabeinio  Onite-                                  AOOola- (oret(    bae  fro in Parsing, f-etry, hostiag and
ma-    rn Ie-martdipy PAOI ha..d on physiologica   unmA  ion nrmaI anti-                       fihiog am peno-stags of -nta  labor fOtec; 19f60, 1970 and 1979 data.
vnanhelh ooindeciog  enn toca  napealra ebdy _alghta, ag                             alar ( oei    Lober ferns in mitig, conatroc..n  maaftteie
and see dotoibuti- of population, end tlloweg 19 pe-ceo ton wase at                           and eleotrinicy, wanes and gas em perneotage ofttlino   ote   90
hoanebld l_vo; 0961-6, 1 970, and 1977 dane.                                                   197 0 _nd 1979 data.
Pee _eito no_ly of pr-eringam   o  dat  - Protein r..ot.ot oP yen t-pirateitaieNt  neoo)-tsl.ae and femo- -Ptnnpal
eo  o  f1po  food per day.  Net eoyply of food lo defiosl as above.  Be-ctF tvi    rates ape nompatad as.onl  mae,od femal  Ioorfore
quite tentf,r n11 cerotIno  e-nabihebo  bp USDA pr-tde fur mIimum                             p       .gam  nf renal, male andfmaepopolatin of nil ages respectively;
tIIoar- of60 gnom  of t tnl prnele per dap and 20 groadfale   r                               1960, 1970, -ed 1979 data.  These Itee hone.d or ILl's partiripatiosrae
pulse pronie, at which 10 grams ohould is aelo1 poti.  These stnd                             reflecting aesaarnaeo   i   eaain   o   o   ieted 
Ite    t ar  Ione  thee tbose of 71 gooss of cte1 petric and 21 grant  t                      tes estImates Ite fees noiaalaose
-aima  protein as an average ton the cd  prpoe   ipAPO i  the Third                         feo..o.ic Deneodenor eatio  - ai f populanteout..er 15 end 65 and  ros
Ofood Pool la_ve; 1961-65, 1970 and 197  dta                                                  te  the total labor fnroe
no-l frot    elan  n  polaea is grom   par day; 191-61%i5,-09P70 aol 1907 dna.,           ItlOsp t STRTeeT'fOt
Child (ages 1-4)Occly  Aappniosu) - Anua  deatha Per tho-tard in                                 P.e--nn    fi Pnio-te Icoe   fboth in cash and find) - tee-rd by riobset
age group 1-P yearn, n- chIldren in ril   ge grop; fr  on  derlpr   tt5 psorti. riciht  20 p.ergn, poor est 20 poPteet, ad peaneIt 40 per-to
trim   data derived fot.  life rablan; 1960, 1970 aol 0979  loin                                of h-nseblds.
POVEeTY TAelT GRmOUPS
Life lopecanoy ot BIth beets) - orage ouber of  oars of life  eann                     The fo11itig esimates are nec- appr..aate maaone  of pove.rty le-elo,
ot,  bIrth; 1961, 1970 and 1979 dai.tadeei   eiteIse    iioradnbeouie
Inateotlt late (ten ihon....d)  A- Annual dr-ha  ft iufons under 005 yer                 Osnisated AbIs.I.te Poverty scm I__    a_fI     Ita ta pts) - urban and  -o1
oogpenho.a.nd live births..
doosna to Salt Peter (p_ets ofyylnio-toa,ub-an,-on  rura   - No-                                   Abespovery don.q             tlista   tnrslre    el   ho   a ed.tm
her of peoplv (total;, ubane,andeu )th reaso_ghe aces  osaestritiovll  adeuae diet pies ensertiel non-toed noqutremnoi   u
sntnspply liocda  retd  sor t. ac IWt_r  onunretd hot .....nta.eaedafonai
,I:,     nsimated gelatins Povert Itto.- Level foil eer  -aito2 -onbaaod rural1
eater men  on tha  Pros pruieccedboroboles, apoiga, and nacinannells) an     Rural  elative peoertIIncome1level isotr-eityd  af.evn1g1  pro notpit
pe  ...nge  oftheir te-p-ti-tryoaiun.T  au ashba  area a publit                                Oaanlire    ftero                     ria  leelit derive       rinn   tsh ura
fo...iaioocotegdpost loated con tote than 200  -51cm   from  a hmue  mapY be                     ee  with. odj  mee  tenbghrtooPl gisnbmaat
toidod .. n -bel.g ith iv.J resoabe  rotsoftanhots   Toaalara                               esiatdPononn                ela Ahglore.. Posi lrins. Lov - Ipret) -  rba
ossnbe ote   ol  ml  clu  the humaoafe  0 seioso  the hoseod                                and roral   Perremitc  papuletion  lrbaoagd trora) abe are "baolot
do an  h-vo to  yeod e disprnp-riio-te Part of the lap In fe-citog thne-
P:d~~~~~Po
tha    _  y' sar         P ed .   4     :t                              .rt
ad.mt-oonsr by aetorb-boen  apons  00 she -er ci Pit pninie- and titi-                                                            rcovoE- fo and Oo-ia1 D-n BDiotiar
Oar itota.louvom                                                                                                                 OorsrAnlssad  PoetSr ep-rtewt
Pvoahatlo-_cot Pyacon-Popytltion dIvided b  number of prarticlog phymi-                                                                                 Mat 1991
cia.. quolifird Pros a mdoa1 ochoo1 at university level.
Pooulation per-_rso Pro- Populatiog divided by noie  of  pran tlnlog
male end femal  graduate  eurae, poo-nl-1 ouree,odaeacnrses



- 24 -
ECONOMiC INDICATORS                                                                          ANIEX I
page 14 of 5
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
6SS  NATIONAL PRODU=  IN 1980                                                                                              (% CURRENT PRICES)
US$ Million         % of GDP                                                1976-80
GIN  at Market Prices                                  1,109.0            103.9                                                   13.9
GDP at Market Prices                                  1,070.9             100.0                                                   13.7
Gross Domestic Investment                                265.7             24.8                                                   20.1
Gross Domestic Saving                                    20.5               2.0
Current Account Balance                                -160.5             -15.0
Exports of Goods, NFS                                    319.0             29.8                                                   16. 2
Imports of Goods, NFS                                    564.3            -52.4                                                   16. 2
OUTPUT,LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980                                         Value Added                               Labor Force                       Value Added per Worker
UJS$ Million                   .L         Thousand                   ..L.       ...2L.                          .
Agriculture                                             413.5                     43.1           906                      55.7        456.4                         77.4
Industry, Construction
and Public Works                                     113.2                      11.3           52                        3.2      2,176,9                        369.2
Government                                              114.1                     11.9           72                        4.4      1,584.7                        268.7
Commerce and Trarsport                                 285.9                      29.8          597                       36.7        478.9                         81.2
Other Services                                           32.8                      3.4
GDP at Factor Cost                                  959 5                     100 0        1,62T7 1000                             559.7                        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(CFAF Billion)   '              of GOP
1-980                976-80
Revenue                                                  32.8             14.6                  15.5
Grants                                                   18.0              8.o                   8.4
Current Expenditures                                    26.3              11.7                  11.9
Investment Expenditures                                 29.2              13.0                  11.8
Net lending to State enterprise                          10.4              4.6                  15.8
Overall deficit (-)                                  -15.1             -6.7                   -3.8
External borrowing                                       14.7              6.5                   5.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                 1976           1977          1978           1979           1980
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    30.6           34.9          39.0           26.8           65.B
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             -5.5           -7.6         -10.4           -8.o          -10.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            31.0           37.5          47.2          6o.o            80.8
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                       22.8           23.1           23.1           24.2           29.2
r,eneral Price Index (1974 = 100)                      122.4          132.6         145.6          160.4          177.9
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                                   8.2            8.3          9g8            10.2           10.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        -87.1          -38.2         -36.8           23.1          -26.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         1.8           21.0          25.9           27.1           34.7
not available
December 28, 1981



-25 -
ANNEX I
TRADE, PAYMNTS AND CAPITAL yiLj                                                                       Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMITS                                                                     3/                    NMWCANDIBX  EwORT  (AVERAGE 1975-1973. RECORDED)
1976        1977        1978        1979                                                                  UBmUOn  D
l,orte of Goods, NFS                172.8       220.0       214.3       269.5       319.0            Cotton                                         B.0        26.1
Imports of Goods, NFS               308.6       364.3       394.3       468.6       564.3            Cocoa Beans                                   3.5         11.4
Resource Gap (deficit . -;         -135.8      -144.3      -180.0      -199.1      -245.3            Palm Products                                 2.2          7.2
All Other Coomodities                         6           55.3
TOTAL                                30.6        100.0
Interest Payments (net)              -0.9        -0.9        -2.2        -2.8        -2.4
Workerr' Resittances                 22.4        30.5        38.6        34,3        44.3
Other factors (net)                   1.0         0.5         1.3         1.9         0.9
Bet transfers                        30.0
Balance on Current Accounts         -83.3       -81.9      -117.1      -133.3      -160.5            EXTEERAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1980
Direct Foreign Investnent             1.4         4.8        11.4        17.1        40.o
Net MLT Borrowing                    47.6        42.4        34.8        40.9        51.4                                                               rS3 Million
Capital GraDts                       30.5        33.8        25.7        32.8        42.8
Other Capital (net)                 -11.4       -17.1         5.7        10.5         3.8            Publi. Debt (Disbursed),
Other Itme, n.e.i.                    -           -           -           -           -                 Including Guaranteed                              261.7
SDRs                                  -           -           -           -           -              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors and COissions                 21.4        16.2        16.2        16.7        18.1            Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Overall Balance                       6.2        -0.9       -23.3       .12.8        -1.9
Use of Reserves                      -6.2         0.9        23.3        12.8         1.9
DEST, SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 3/
Net Reserves (end year) ,/           20.1        20.1        14.1        13.8         8.6            D
Petroleus Imoorts as 4                                                                               Public Debt (Disbursed)
of Total Imnorts                   6.o         5.1         4.7         5.3         5.5               Including Guaranteed Private Debt                   2.9
rRon-CGusntsed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
EXCANi ERATES (CFAF PER U05)
Year           Period Average      End of Period                                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING. JUNE 30. 1981
I22D      IDA
~ Million) -
1976                239                248
1977                246                235                                                           Outstanding and Disbursed                         --      57.76
1978                226                209                                                           Undisbursed                                       _-      20.79
1979                212                201                                                           Outstanding Including Undisbursed                 __      78.55
1980                210                226
1981                270                 -
2/ Foreign assets of Centra  Bank
2/ Estimates
]/ Preliminary estimatesof ratio of debt service to exmorts of goods and services
not available
De.ember 28, 1981



-26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Credit
Number     Year    Borrower    Purpose                      Amount 1/  Undisbursed
----(US$ million)-----
Three Credits fully disbursed                                14.80
415-BEN    1973    Benin        Roads                        20.80 2/       3.06
583-BEN    1975    Benin        Rural Education
and Training                  4.00          1.54
716-BEN    1977    Benin        Technical Assistance          1.70          0.12
717-BEN    1977    Benin        Feeder Roads                  5.50          0.03
746-BEN    1977    Benin        Third Highway                10.00          1.80
826-BEN    1978    Benin        Cotonou Port                 19.30 3/       2.48
997-BEN    1980    Benin        Industrial Development       10.00          9.98
TOTAL                                    86.10         19.01
of which has been repaid                  8.48
TOTAL now outstanding                    77.62
TOTAL now held by IDA                    77.62
TOTAL iundisbursed                       19.01
Amount     Undisbursed
…    (SDR million)----
1090-BEN 4/ 1981   Benin        Feeder Roads                  5.5           5.5
1127-BEN 5/ 1981   Benin        Borgou Province
Rural Development            15.7          15.7
1142-BEN 5/ 1981   Benin        Highway IV                    9.3           9.3
1171-BEN 5/ 1981   Benin        Cotonou Water Sanitation    4.1             4.1
TOTAL                                           34.6          34.6
of which has been repaid                         0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                           34.6
TOTAL now held by IDA                           34.6
TOTAL undisbursed                               34.6
1/   Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
2/   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$9 million.
3/   Including US$8.3 million participation of the Government of Norway
(fully disbursed) and repaid.
4/   Became effective on December 11, 1981.
5/   Not effective yet.  Credit No. 1127 was signed on April 9, 1981, Credit
No. 1142 on July 16, 1981, and Credit 1171 on October 26, 1981.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 415-BEN   Second Highway Project; US$20.8 million credit of
July 3, 1973; Closing Date: October 31, 1981.
This credit provided for a four-year highway maintenance project
in FY69 to which a supplementary credit of US$9 million was added. The
project has been completed at less cost than was originally anticipated in
the supplementary credit. Following payment of final disbursement requests for
the period up to the official closing date the undisbursed amount is to be
cancelled on January 31, 1982.
Credit No. 583-BEN   Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0 million
credit of September 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
This credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training
materials for a Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction,
equipment and technical assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training
program; and (iii) preparation of a second education project. The construction
of the National Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for
the rural training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center
(CPPE) have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC.
Equipment has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for
extension staff and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural
water supply component jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980,
is expected to take two years to complete.
Credit No. 746-BEN   Third Highway Project US$10.0 million credit of
November 18, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou
by providing for the rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's main
north-south highway; it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program
begun under the two previous highway projects; including the elimination of
some of the backlog of bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project
execution is proceeding satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen
roads resealing program have resulted in further deterioration of about 54 km
of roads which now require full reconstruction. Reconstruction of the bitumen
roads is provided for under the Fourth Highway project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems and
actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the under-
standing that they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 826-BEN   Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit of October 6,
1978, Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
This project provides for the extension of the existing general
cargo port facilities involving dredging of a new basin, construction of 660 m
berths with transit sheds, hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the
construction of a new cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging;
technical assistance for all port operations including railway and a study
of coastal erosion problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally
agreed to participate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of
external financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved
on November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of
one of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $9.0 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the
construction of a new one. The Government is seeking additional financing
from the cofinanciers.
Credit No. 997-BEN   Industrial Development Project; US$10.0 million credit
of April 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise
pour le Developpement (BBD) fr7 financing small- and medium-scale investments
in the industrial sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD's
capacity to identify, promote and assist industrial projects.
Credit No. 1090-BEN Second Feeder Roads Project; SDR 5.5 million credit of
January 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This project provides for the construction of about 700 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of 1,200 km.
Credit No. 1127-BEN Borgou Province Rural Development Project; SDR 15.7
million credit of April 9, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
This project provides for expanding agricultural production (food-
crops and cotton) in the Borgou Province through the strengthening and support
of institutions and of technical infrastructure, integrated with improved
extension, cooperatives, training and social services. This Credit is not yet
effective.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 1171-BEN Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project;
SDR 4.1 million credit of June 25, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project initiates Bank Group operations in the water supply
and sanitation sector. It provides for studies on the preparation of master
plans for water supply, sanitation, and urban development; the review of
existing tariff and accounting systems with recommendations for improvement; a
training program for staff of the Agency for Power and Water Supply (SBEE);
and detailed design and bidding documents for a first stage construction
program to be carried out under a possible future project. This Credit is not
yet effective.
Credit No. 1142-BEN  Fourth Highway Project; SDR 9.3 million credit of July 16
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides for the rehabilitation of about 500 km of
gravel roads, the reconstruction or resealing of about 84 km of paved roads,
and the improvement in the efficiency of routine and periodic maintenance.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 30 -                       ANNEX III
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PROJECT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN THE PETROLEUM SECTOR
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         18 months
(b)  Initial discussions with IDA:          October, 1979
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:        April, 1981
(d)  Negotiations completed:                December 4, 1981
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:         April, 1982
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
On January 8, 1981, an advance of US$500,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility was granted to the government to cover the expenditures
for project preparation before credit signing. A second PPF advance of
US$500,000 was granted on December 8, 1981 to the government to cover
expenditures for project preparation before credit signing.
Section III - Special Conditions:
1.   Condition of Effectiveness
(a) The Association be notified by the EIB that any conditions precedent
to the first disbursement under the EIB Loan Agreement, except for
the effectiveness of the IDA Agreement, have been fulfilled (para 59).
2.   Conditions of Disbursement
(a) Disbursement for the seismic survey is conditional on preparation by
the exploration consultants of a detailed program satisfactory to
OBEMINES and IDA (para 61).
(b)  No disbursements beyond US$250,000 for the engineering design                      n
studies will be made unless the Association and the government agree
that water injection is feasible on the basis of the preliminary
recommendations of the reservoir engineering studies (para 56(d)).
3.   Other Conditions
(a) Upon request the Association would have access to the documentation
and facilities of the Seme oilfield development scheme (para 47);



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) In the event that the government establishes a national oil company,
for purposes of owning and managing all petroleum assets in Benin,
the government would ask for IDA's comments on the organization and
finances of such a company, particularly concerning transfer of
assets and liabilities (para 47);
(c) The government would (i) submit by the end of June 1982 to IDA for
its approval a training program for six professional staff and the
names and qualifications of those professionals to be trained (para
56); and (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that these
professionals would take up employment in Benin's petroleum sector
for a minimum period of five years after completion of their respec-
tive training programs (para 63);
(d) The government would formulate by the end of December 1982 and
maintain thereafter, adequate pay scales, salaries and bonuses for
its nationals working in the oil industry (para 63).






t . p ............. : N    :G: ER             2tt -1                                                  .............  ,  _  __ IBRD 16065
'2QAS AH#~IA       flGA   E               IAbome
ATlANJIC OCEAN                                                         0Abom
r:                                           /                                        /'V5
Limit  of  sedimentary   \asin                       T O         P  E T R O     Mort
6',,,,, ,; , ,-  Baseen-Ct                                                                    ETO
-\   Li¢dseimreJofbs                                  TECHfN,ICAL  AS'SISTANCE ' PROJ''ECT                    '-' -      -
.   . '~     'Basenn                                                TO   -THE,' ,P6ETR LE         scro                      -  -:
-~~~~~cd zoSne fil
Proposed seismic Survey Would cover part of this area
-200DO- Depth contour inMeter$
-*-- nternationl buwdaies                                                          -
-  Median lines                 -re.ntpn                                          a, _n,.o4  onE n,s*
o f t st                              the .   .  a
#404 O Mm0 tsmW'14.Eo



