Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17402-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62.5 MILLION TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUB3LIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT -- FUNDESCOLA I
MARCH 16, 1998
Human and Social Development Group
Brazil Country Department
Latirn American and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: March 1, 1997)
Currency Unit= Real
R$ 1.00 =US$ 1.14
FISCAL YEAR (FY)                                 SCHOOL YEAR (SY)
January I-December 31                            March-December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country assistance strategy
COEP             State-based Project Executive Coordination (Coordenavo Estadual
Executiva do Projeto)
CONSED           National Council of State Education Secretaries (Conselho Nacional de
Secretarios Estaduais de EducaX o)
cw               Center-West region of Brazill
DEMEC            State-based office of the Ministry of Education and Sports (Delegacia do
MEC)
DGP              Central Project Coordination Unit (Dire(wlo Geral do Projeto)
FNDE             National Education Development Fund (Fundo Nacional de
Desenvolvimento da EducaVao)
FUNDESCOLA       School Improvement Program (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da
Escola)
FUNDESCOLA I    First School Improvement Project (Primeiro Projeto Fundo de
Fortalecimento da Escola)
FVM              Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher
Valorization (Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Man utenqao do Ensino
Fundamental e Valorizacao do Magisterio)
GDE              School Development Group (Grupo de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
GT               Technical Group (Grupo Tecnico)
IBGE             Brazilian Census Bureau (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica)
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IADB or IDB      Inter-American Development Bank,
National Institute for Educational Research and Studies, a MEC-based agency
(Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais)
LCS              Least-cost Selection
LDB              National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases de Educacao Nacional)
MEC              Brazilian Ministry of Education and Sports
MOS              Minimum operational standards
MOIP             Project Operations and Implementation Manual (Manual de Operages e
Implementaqdo do Projeto)
N                North region of Brazil2
Comprising the states of Goias (GO), Mato Grosso (MT), and Mato Grosso do Sul (MS), but
excluding the Federal District (see map)
Vice President: S. Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director: Julian Schwveitzer
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Robin Scott Horn



NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NE              Northeast region of Brazil3
NEBE            Northeast Basic Education Project
NGO             Non-governmental organization
OECD             Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAE              State Action Program (Programa,do de A,do do Estado)
PAM             Municipal Action Program (Programa,cao de A,do Municipal)
PAZ              Microregion Action Program (Progama,ao de Aqiio Zonal)
PDE              School Development Plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola)
PE               School subproject (Projeto de Melhoria da Escola) initiated under PDE
PNLD            National Textbook Program (Programa Nacional do Livro Didatico)
PPO              Research and Operationalization Program of Education Policies (Programa
de Pesquisa e Operacionliza,do)
PRASEM           Municipal Education Secretaries Support Program (Program de Apoio aos
Secretarios Municipais de Educa,cdo)
PTA              Annual Work Plan (Plano de Trabalho Anual)
QCBS             Quality- and Cost-based Selection
SAEB            National System for Basic Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de
Avalia,do da Educa,cdo Basica)
SIED            Integrated Education Information System (Sistema Integrado de Infoma,ces
Educacionais)
SPA             Computerized Planning and monitoring system (Sistema de Planejamento e
Acompanamento)
SEE              State Education Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Educaqdo)
SME             Municipal Education Secretariat (Secretaria Municipal de Educa,cao)
TOR              Terms of Reference (for contracts, studies, missions, and so on)
UE               School Council (Unidade Executora)
UNDIME          National Association of Municipal Education Managers (Unido Nacional dos
Dirigentes Municipais de Educa,do)
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
2Comprising the states of Acre (AC), Amazonas (AM), Amapa (AP), ParA (PA), Rond6nia (RO),
Roraima (RR), and Tocantins (TO) (see map)
3Comprising the states of Alagoas (AL), Bahia (BA), Ceara (CE), Maranhao (MA),
Pernambuco (PB), Paraiba (PE), Piaui (PI), Rio Grande do Norte (RN), and Sergipe (SE)
(see map)






Federative Republic of Brazil
School Improvement Project - FUNDESCOLA I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.     PROJECT DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE ............................................................................2
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ....................2
II.    STRATEGIC  CONTEXT ............................................................................3
A. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED
BY THE PROJECT ................................................                          ..3
B. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY                                                                   .4
C. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ...............7
III.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY ............................................................................9
A. PROJECT COMPONENTS ............................................................................9
B. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ...................... I I
C. BENEFITS AND  TARGET POPULATION ...........................................................................                           12
D. INSTITUTIONAL  AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS: ................................................... 12
IV.    PROJECT RATIONALE ...........................................................................                                                 14
A. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ............................. 14
B. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT
AGENCIES (COMPLETED, ONGOING, AND  PLANNED) ................................................................ 16
C. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ............................................. 17
D. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ............................................ 18
E. VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT ...........................................................................                             20
V.       SUMMARY  PROJECT ANALYSIS ...........................................................................                                      21
A. ECONOMIC ...........................................................................                                                  21
B. FINANCIAL ...........................................................................                                                 22
C. TECHNICAL: ...........................................................................                                                22
D. INSTITUTIONAL: ...........................................................................                                            23
E. SOCIAL: ...........................................................................                                                   24
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT: ...........................................................................                                 25
G. PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH ...........................................................................                                   25
VI.    SUSTAINABILITY  AND  RISKS ...........................................................................                                        27
A. SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................................................                                            27
B. CRITICAL RISKS ...........................................................................                                            28
VI].    MAIN  LOAN  CONDITIONS ...........................................................................                                          29
A. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS ...........................................................................                                  29
VIII. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION                                                ..29
IX.  COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ..............................                                                                                   29
X. ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: PROGRAM DESIGN SUMMARY .31
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .37
ANNEX 3:ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                                                  .51
ANNEX 4:ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .53
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY .71
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .75
ANNEX 7: MICROREGIONS AND PROJECTS PHASING .83
ANNEX 8: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT .93
ANNEX 9: PROJECT PROCESSING, BUDGET AND SCHEDULE .97
ANNEX 10: SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .99
ANNEX 11: STATUS OF THE WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATION IN BRAZIL.                                                                          101
ANNEX 12: BRAZIL AT A GLANCE ...........................                                                                               103






Document of
The World Bank
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Department 1
Project Appraisal Document
Federative Republic of Brazil
First School Improvement Project -- FUNDESCOLA I
Date: January 26, 1998                  Task Manager/Team Leader: Robin S. Horn
Country Director:  Gobind T. Nankani    Sector Manager/Director: Julian Schweitzer
Project ID:         Sector: Education    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
BR-PA50762         I
Lending Instrument:  Specific  Investment Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes [ ]No
Loan
Project    Financing [X] Loan [ ]Credit  []Guarantee    []Other [Specify]
Data
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Aimount (US$m/SDRm): US$62.5 million
Proposed terms:             []    Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years):   5   []    Standard Variable   []  Fixed          [X] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:   15
Commitment fee:      0.75%
Service charge:      Variable
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                  Local                  Foreign         Total
Government of Brazil                    62.5                   0.0             62.5
IB,RD                                   56.4                   6.1             62.5
Total                                   118.9                  6.1             125.0
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: n.a.
Irnplementing Agency: Brazilian Ministry of Education and Sports (MEC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999      2000       2001
Annual                                   15.0       25.0       22.5
Cumulative                               15.0       40.0       62.5
Piroject Implementation Period           April 1998 - December 2000
Expected effectiveness date: June 1, 1998  Closing date: June 30, 2001
1



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
I.    Project Development Objective
A. Project development objective and key performance indicators
(see Annex 1)
The development objective of FUNDESCOLA I iS to strengthen primary schools
and the public institutions that are responsible for them within a coordinated management
framework, in order to increase the participation, promotion and graduation rates, and
achievement levels of children in the North and Center-West capital microregions of Brazil.
FUNDESCOLA I is the first of several projects that will attend to educational needs in the three
poorest regions of Brazil - the North (N), Northeast (NE), and the Center-West (cw). The
overall FUNDESCOLA Program' has been agreed to in principle by the World Bank (Bank)
and the government of Brazil (Borrower)2, and will be financed through a series of loans.
FUNDESCOLAI will contribute to achieving the overall sector goal of ensuring that children
from the poorest regions of Brazil successfully complete a basic eight-grade education. This
will help guarantee that these children are better prepared to participate as active and
productive citizens in a democratic society; and will aid in reducing the stark inter-regional
disparities in educational achievement.
To achieve this development objective, FUNDESCOLA will seek to ensure that
all eligible children are enrolled in schools that: (a) meet Nfinimum Operational Standards,
(b) are pursuing school-defined performance goals and projects, designed in partnership with
the community, through participation in a school development process; (c) employ
professionally qualified teachers; and (d) have principals trained in effective and efficient
school management. FUNDESCOLA will provide these schools, in turn, with technical support
from municipal and state education secretariat staff trained in facilitating, managing,
sustaining, and replicating the school development process. In addition, FUNDESCOLA will
provide the staff in these secretariats with instruments and training in school mapping, and
in engaging the community and stakeholders in the education decisionmaking process. At
the federal level, FUNDESCOLA will support the development and implementation of national
programs, including assessment and distance learning and initiatives designed to improve
school quality and attendance.
The key performance indicators for the project objectives (to be achieved by
June 2001) are to:
* increase enrollment rates of children in schools meeting minimum operational standards
from an initial estimate of less than 10 to over 50 percent in all participating
microregions;
For FUNDESCOLA program objectives and key performance indicators see Annex 1. From
this point forward, reference to "FUNDESCOLA" refers to the program as a whole, while
reference to the "Project" or "FUNDESCOLA I " refers to thle first loan for the North and
Center-West capital city microregions.
2 See Project Concept Document dated October 16, 1997.
2



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
*  promote the elaboration and implementation of coordinated municipal or state education
action programs in at least 50 percent of the participating municipalities;
*  increase enrollment rates of children attending schools with implemented school
development plans from an initial estimate of less than 2 to over 50 percent in all
participating microregions; and
FUNDESCOLA I will provide funding for FUNDESCOLA program startup, and
will finance, on a pilot basis, all of the program components and activities, with the
exception of school construction, in the ten North and Center-West capital city
microregions. (For a discussion of the "microregion" concept, see below as well as Annex
7.) These ten microregions include the eighty municipalities centered around the cities of
Belem (Para), Boa Vista (Roraima), Campo Grande (Mato Grosso do Sul), Cuiaba (Mato
Grosso), Goiania (Goias), Macapa (Amapa), Manaus (Amazonas), Palmas (Tocantins),
Porto Velho (Rondonia), and Rio Branco (Acre). Consequently, FUNDESCOLA I will finance
program activities oriented toward approximately 4,200 schools, 24,000 classrooms, and
1,350,000 children (aged seven to fourteen).
11. Strategic Context
A. Sector-related country assistance strategy (cAs) goal supported by the project
CAS document number: 16852-BR Date of latest CAS discussion: June 12, 1997
The education sector goal of the CAS is to provide the opportunity for all
children to complete the eight-year fundamental schooling cycle by 2007, and to improve
academic performance in basic subjects, particularly Portuguese and mathematics.
FUNDESCOLA will contribute to these goals by increasing primary school quality and
expanding access to primary school. FUNDESCOLA addresses the goal of improving education
outcomes by its emphasis on reducing regional disparities in student achievement; it will do
this by targeting the three poorest regions of Brazil. This will contribute to achieving the
overall objective of poverty reduction as stated in the CAS.
Attainment of these goals requires effectively implemented projects that
improve the quality of teaching and school management, clarify responsibilities between
municipalities and states, and emphasize improved educational opportunities for the poor.
FUNDESCOLA is a key component of a national strategy for improving primary education
outcomes; it seeks to strengthen educational management by promoting the integration and
rationalization of municipal and state systems, focusing on the school as the agent of
educational change, and helping maximize the effects of existing primary education policies
and programs.
3



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
B. Main sector issues and government strategy
Improved quality and access of basic education are at the center of social
policies in Brazil. The government induced major reforms aimed at helping to ensure that by
2007 every Brazilian child will complete his or her primary education at an acceptable level
of academic achievement. In spite of substantial progress and political and societal
commitment, there is still much to be done to attain levels of efficiency and performance
capable of ensuring quality education for all. The following sector issues pose a particular
challenge for reform in the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions.
Low enrollment rates: The North, Northeast, and Center-West regions
(excluding the federal district) have the lowest enrollment rates in the country. The
percentage of children aged seven to fourteen not in school - 15 percent (or 350,000
children) in the North; 14 percent (or 1,250,000 students) in the Northeast, and 9.1 percent
(or 150,000 children) in the Center-West regions -indicates the size of the gap in
education services. In the ten capital microregions of the North and Center-West
approximately 97,000 children aged seven to fourteen (nearly 8 percent of the age group) are
not attending any primary school. Low levels of primary school enrollment and completion
have two main roots: (a) an inadequate or ill-distributed supply of school places; and
(b) uneven demand by parents and children for beginning or additional schooling. Supply of
school places is severely affected by the lack of facilities, the inefficient use of existing
schools, and poor planning strategies. Weak demand by parents correlates with poverty-
related factors and can be stimulated by increasing school quality and relevance, reducing
repetition (especially in the initial school years), and increasing community involvement.3
High repetition and age-grade distortion: Despite a doubling in national
primary school completion rates between 1980 and 1994, aggregate repetition rates in the
North (over 42 percent), Northeast (approximately 45 percent), and Center-West (over 35
percent) regions remain extremely high - especially in comparison with the South
(approximately 25 percent). To the extent that evidence from Bank-supported sector work
and other studies in Brazil confirm that students are more likely to repeat again and to drop
out after having repeated a grade level, low completion rates become inevitable.4 Finally,
over 60 percent of primary students are older than they should be for their respective grade
level nationwide, with this rate reaching 81 percent in the North, 83 percent in the Northeast,
and 69 percent in the Center-West. Age-grade distortion is the cumulative result of late-
entry to school (especially in rural areas) and a chronic grade repetition syndrome across the
Brazilian system. As a result, students spend 11.2 years, on average, to complete the
mandatory eight-year primary education cycle.5
3 Brazil Ministry of Education, World Bank, and UNICE]F. "A Call to Action: Combating
School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil." June 26, 1997
4ibid.
5 See Annex 4 for additional information on the effect of repetition on costs.
4



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
Low student achievement level: According to the Brazilian Ministry of
Education and Sports (MEc)-managed 1995 National System for Basic Education Evaluation
(SAEB), the average achievement level (measuring the probability of correct answer to
curricular items on a scale of zero to one hundred) of fourth graders in Portuguese is 44.4
percent for the North, 46.4 percent for the Northeast, and 50.7 percent for the Center-West
against 51.5 percent for the Southeast. Regional disparities are especially noteworthy for
eighth graders in Portuguese, which varies between 57.2 percent in the Northeast, 61.4
percent in the North, and 66.4 percent in the Center-West compared with a 69.3 percent in
the Southeast. The most recent SAEB mathematics assessment demonstrated that 49 percent
of children who complete fourth grade in the Northeast are unable to perform at the
minimum expected level. These children are unable to solve concrete problems, add
fractions with the same denominator, or identify the graphic representation of simple
fractions. The same proportion of eighth graders in the Northeast does not perform at the
expected level of mathematics mastery. For instance, 49 percent of eighth graders from the
Northeast are incapable of solving simple problems involving the four operations, ordering
fractions with different denominators, or solving simple problems involving fractions. For
Brazil as a whole, these figures are 35 percent and 26 percent, respectively.
Poorly qualified teachers: In the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions,
out of a total of 380,730 primary school teachers, 57,000 primary school teachers have not
completed primary school, and about 129,000 have an incomplete secondary school
education or are not duly certified as teachers. Over 30 percent (or 29,410) of teachers in the
North and 16 percent (or 11,325) in the Center-West are considered "lay teachers." Almost
all of these teachers are in rural areas, where most of the schools belong to municipal school
systems that have lower financial capacity. Municipal and state schools compete for
unqualified teachers who are underpaid and who often work two or three shifts. The lack of
an attractive career plan, with salaries adequate to attract and maintain adequately qualified
and educated teachers, affects the entire system.
Poverty-related factors: In 1990, at least 40 percent of Brazilian children
below the age of fifteen were living in poor families (defined as families whose aggregate
annual income is less than US$60 per person).6 This widespread poverty directly affects the
ability of children to go to school, because their parents compare the benefits of an
additional income eamer and household support against future gains from additional
schooling. A 1996 publication by UNICEF and the Brazilian Census Bureau (IBGE) showed
that, relative to children aged ten to fourteen, 20 percent in the North, 20 percent in the
Northeast, and 27 percent in the Center-West work outside the home more than forty hours
per week. In Brazil, about 4.6 million children between the ages of ten and seventeen work
and attend school, while 2.7 million work rather than go to school. These indicators
demonstrate the effect of perceived low benefits from an education system that is marked by
high repetition, low achievement, and low completion rates.
6 World Bank. Brazil Poverty Report.
5



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
Low parental and community participation: There is a strong relationship
between student performance and the establishment of a school council or similar school-
linked associations with parental participation.7 School periFormance is higher in schools that
routinely inform parents about their children's progress. Communities with a greater
concentration of adults with higher levels of schooling have greater expectations regarding
education, know the mechanisms of the educational system better, and are better able to
apply pressure to obtain quality schooling for their children. Active school councils or
associations have not traditionally been part of the education tradition, particularly in the
North and Center-West, where school authorities do not routinely seek community
involvement and views.
Lack offocus on the school: Many municipal and state secretariats do not see
the school as their primary client, but tend to serve other political agencies (such as the
mayor, governor, or local legislators). The notion of accourntability to the school community
is alien to most mayors' and local politicians' experience. This lack of focus on the school is
in part due to expanded numbers of schools and students, which has stretched the
supervisory resources of state and municipal secretaries beyond their limits; in part due to
sluggish education planning and scarce information on local needs; and in part due to the
consequence of a patriarchal tradition. High turnover rates in the state and municipal
education secretariats reduce continuity of personnel and commitment of education
management staff to improving educational quality and student performance at the school
level. In addition, there is little incentive for long-term planning or collaboration among the
municipal and state system.
Weak municipal-state system coordination: The presence of a state education
system and hundreds of municipal education systems within the states, functioning in
parallel but without coordination, makes the administration of public schooling complex.
The overlapping of administrative systems makes it difficult to optimize resources,
engenders inequality of opportunities, and may pave the vway for political patronage. One
particularly critical point is the lack of clear regulations regarding the interaction of the
agents participating in this complex two-system web. Until recently there has been little
incentive for long-term planning or collaboration among the municipal and state systems. In
addition, unlike seasoned state bureaucrats, the newcomers to the municipal systems find
themselves at a loss when faced with increased legal requirements and documentation.8
Government Strategy: The launching of FUNDESCOLA occurs at a propitious
moment for improving primary education in Brazil (see below, "Key policy and institutional
reforms to be sought"). The federal government has given top priority to primary education,
initiating a number of significant reforms including: (a) amendment of the constitution and
approval of a law redefining the roles and responsibilities of each government level to
ensure a minimum per student expenditure through the redistribution of revenues between
states and municipalities and the federal provision to targeted regions of any shortfall in
7 "A Call to Action."
Ibid.
6



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
educational expenditures; (b) direct transfer of funds to the schools, in an effort to increase
school autonomy and effectiveness; and (c) improvement of education quality, through a
national assessment system (SAEB), a national distance teacher education program, a
textbook quality and distribution improvement program, and national standards for
curriculum development. These reforms, designed to decentralize the funding of primary
education, diminish regional disparities, and increase coordination among the various
systems, should have a profound impact on school quality, particularly to the degree that
states, municipalities, and schools effectively use these resources, and to the degree that the
public has efficient mechanisms to monitor the application of these finances. The
FUNDESCOLA Program has been designed to help implement these reforms.
C Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
(a) Improving School Quality
By improving the quality of schools in terms of available materials, human resources,
and school management capacity-building, the project will contribute to improving the
quality of the learning process, as measured by completion and promotion rates, and
student achievement scores. This improvement in the quality of the schools is essential
for creating an environment for student success. School quality will be addressed
principally by a dual strategy ensuring that schools meet Minimum Operational
Standards, and promoting and supporting the school development process. The first part
of this strategy will ensure that schools in the project regions meet minimal standards in
terms of basic inputs, services, and infrastructure - prerequisites for children to have
the opportunity to learn at school. The second part of this strategy will ensure
community and school collaboration and commitment to school improvement through
the elaboration and implementation of school development plans and their associated
school subprojects, and will be financed through the FUNDESCOLA program.
(b) Expanding School Access
Another issue to be addressed is the unequal distribution of the supply of school places,
materials, and facilities. In the North and Center-West regions there is a large deficit of
school places in rural areas (of the capital-city microregions), with surpluses of school
places in many urban areas. In addition, the rationalization of existing school spaces in
each of the municipalities, the specification and adequate location of new classrooms
through macro- and micro-planning, and the elaboration of state-by-state standardized
architectural models will contribute to an increase in the supply of school facilities in a
rational and cost-effective fashion.
(c) Improving School and System Management
FUNDESCOLA I will promote effective management of the school and school system so
that the young population of the targeted regions receives quality education. The project
will irnprove the school system management, administration, state and municpal
coordination, monitoring, and evaluation at the school, municipal, and state levels, and
will assist in elevating the efficacy and efficiency of resources for priority federal
education programs and projects. FUNDESCOLA I will: (a) build the management capacity
7



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
of education institutions (at the school, municipal, and state levels); (b) provide and
support specialized training modules and teacher certification programs; (c) foster
community support for education; (d) support national systems, programs, and project
management; and (e) strengthen national education information systems.
8



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                   Project Appraisal Document
I][. Project Description Summary
A. Project components9
Component                            Category      Cost Incl.     % of   Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing  Bank-
(US$M)                 (US$M)   financing
1. Raising schools to minimum       Physical       90.2           72.2%   30.0       48.0%
operational standards
(a) P'romoting minimum operational
standards for schools               Institution
(b) Educating and certifying teachers  building
(c) Supplying basic furniture and
equipment
(d) Financing school impovement
investments
(e) Financing school-managed
rehabilitation of physical facilities
2. Establishing a school            Institution    5.3            4.2%    3.0        5.0%
development process                 building
(a) I)esigning and supporting school
development plans
(b) Financing school subprojects
3. Planning and providing           Institution    4.3            3.4%    4.3        7.0%
additional school places            building
(a) Carrying out school microplanning
and developing standard architectural
plans
(b) Testing standard architectural plans   _
4. Strengthening education          Institution    25.2           20.2%   25.2       40.0%
management and Project              building
Administration
(a) E3uilding management capacity in
schools, municipalities, and states  Project
(b) Providing specialized teaching and    management
leaming improvement programs
(c) F-ostering community participation
(d) Strengthening National Education
information systems and programs
(e) Financing project management    Totl_25_ _          _     _     _     __62_5
______________________ Total           125            100%    62.5       100%
9 See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.
9



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
la. Operational mechanisms
The three principal operational mechanisms of FUNDESCOLA are the minimum
operational standards model, the school development plan, and the microregional planning
model.
The minimum operational standards model is an operational instrument-
structured as a checklist - that specifies the essential package of inputs and services a
school needs in order to function at a minimal level that will facilitate acceptable student
learning. Each school is categorized by size, based on the number of students and
classrooms, which determines the corresponding inputs for that school. Schools that are
incomplete in any one of the essential elements are considered unable to provide children
with the opportunity to learn. FUNDESCOLA will support the institutional responsibility and
actions of municipalities and states in identifying substandard schools and will finance the
inputs or services necessary to raise these schools to the standard operation level.
The school development plan (PDE) is another key operational mechanism
FUNDESCOLA Will apply in carrying out the school development process; this will be
accomplished through capacity building with state and municipal education secretariats. The
PDE is both the result of one process (diagnosis and strategy formulation) and the starting
point of another (school improvement implementation and monitoring). With respect to the
diagnosis and strategy process, the school and its community of parents, teachers, and local
leaders meet to identify and prioritize the problems at the school, establish specific school
improvement objectives, and to agree on an action plan. The expression of this overall
diagnosis and agreement on actions and targets is the PDE. The PDE will include a section
called the PE indicating the support the school needs to carry out their action plan and to
achieve the agreed targets. Schools will use their PEs to inform municipal and state
education authorities on which inputs or training they need to help them attain their
objectives. FUNDESCOLA will finance the inputs and trainingr of the approved PES.
FUNDESCOLA will support a variety of PDES, from the simplest - which may
be little more than an agreement on the part of the school staff and parents to seek specified
educational outcome targets (such as reduction of repetition or drop-out) - to the more
fully developed PDE based on strategic planning or quality management approach. Finally,
with respect to the school improvement phase, the PDE will be used as the tool to monitor the
implementation of the school improvement strategy and school subproject, as well as the
achievement of the agreed educational outcome targets. The most important outcome of the
PDE is not the completion of a PE but rather the process of collaboration, participation, and
teamwork among parents and teachers at every stage of project development, the value that
each stakeholder will derive from the experience, and, in the end, the learning dividends of
the students.
The microregional planning model puts together, through negotiation, the
needs and priorities of all the municipalities involved in each individual microregion.
FUNDESCOLA i does not intend to cover all of the 895 municipalities in the North (8.2 percent
10



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
of the total in Brazil) and Center-West (8.1 percent) regions. Instead, FUNDESCOLA will work
with a microregional planning model, that is, with groups of municipalities based on the
Brazil Census Bureau's microregion grouping. The reason behind this operational approach
is the fact that there are no single education systems operating in any state in Brazil. Instead,
each state contains a state education system and hundreds of municipal education systems,
functioning in parallel and competing for resources. The result is an aggregation of
educational activities, patched together by a jumble of agreements and conflicting interests,
without sufficient regulations regarding the interaction of the participating agents, and
without either level of government taking the total responsibility for assuring quality
education for all.
The microregional planning model permits a more rational and effective
managerial option than the traditional dispersion of resources among the individual
municipalities or the concentration of resources to state governments chronically biased
toward the state-run school system. Intervention by FUNDESCOLA I in a microregion will
cover all of the municipalities in that microregion. Though composed of neighboring
municipalities sharing many socio-economic interests, the microregion does not constitute
an administrative division, but provides a basis for planning and negotiation among other
municipal governments and the state government
FUNDESCOLA I will initiate implementation of FUNDESCOLA in the capital
microregions of the North and Center-West states, which together comprise eighty
municipalities. The decision to focus FUNDESCOLA I implementation in the capital rather
than the interior is based on both operational and equity concerns. In terms of operational
issues, execution in the capital will allow the state secretariat to work with neighboring
municipalities on an innovation basis and develop relationships into the state interior during
subsequent projects. In addition, project startup in the capital will attend to the greatest
number of poor children in each state. The total school-age population in the capital
microregions of the states of Acre, Amapa, Amazonas, Rondonia, and Roraima, is greater
than that of the remainder of the state. In the remaining states, the capital microregion
contains more students than any other single microregion or group of microregions (see
Annex 7 for a detailed description of the microregional planning model).
B. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
FUNDESCOLA has been designed to complement key government strategies
and programs and to assist education management at the municipal, state, and federal levels
in meeting the requirements of recent legislation, with special attention to: (a) redistribution
of resources as part of the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education
and Teacher Valorization (FvM); (b) decentralization of federal resources under the Direct
School Funding Program; and (c) promotion of collaboration and cooperation among the
state and municipal system as part of the 1996 National Education Law (LDB). The FVM,
approved by the national congress in December of 1996, established January 1998 as the
11



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I              Project Appraisal Document
starting point for national FVM implementation within each state.'0 The FVM sets up fixed
criteria for allocating funds with the aim of raising standards of opportunity, quality, and
equity of education. The National Education Development Fund (FNDE)-sponsored Direct
School Funding Program, which was designed to increase school autonomy and reduce
inequalities, has expanded rapidly since its inception in 1995, transferring resources on the
basis of school size and community participation. The LI)B stimulates innovation and
initiative on the part of educational agents in order to avoid excessive bureaucratization,
give priority to primary education, and strengthen the role of the municipality in the
provision of grades one through eight.
C. Benefits and target population
The direct beneficiary of FUNDESCOLA I is the primary school-age population
currently in school or entering school in the near future (abouat 1.3 million students) in the
North and Center-West capital microregions. These children will benefit from an education
system endowed with an increased number of school places, adequate learning materials,
certified and well-paid teachers, committed parents, and effective management at all levels.
The most important stakeholder group for the FUNDESCOLA program are the
education decisionmakers, teachers, and other education specialists who manage and direct
the primary education schools and system. In the context of decentralization, it is important
that education managers at all levels be qualified in managing the education process and
making effective and informed decisions across a wide range of issues. By providing
management tools and training in such areas as teacher career planning, school mapping,
and architectural plans, the System Planning and Monitoring System (SPA), subproject
procedures in the school and system, and the school development process, the project will
provide a large number of education professionals with the managerial capabilities they need
to run a more autonomous local system (see Summary of Social Assessment, below)
D. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3 years, April 1998 through December 2000
Executing Agency: Brazilian Ministry of Education and Sports (MEC)
Project coordination: At the federal level, the Central Project Coordination
Unit (DGP) (already in charge of the Northeast Basic Education Projects, NEBE 11, and NEBE
iII) has been responsible for the preparation and will be charged with the administration of
FUNDESCOLA. The DGP iS institutionally and technically ready to: (a) serve as the key project
counterpart to dialogue and participate in negotiation with the World Bank and key
govemment and international agencies; (b) rely on the state-based Project Executive
Coordination (coEP) and state-based office of the Ministry of Education (DEMEC) for
implementation and monitoring at the microregional level; (c) analyze and approve state,
intra-state, and microregional projects and annual work plans; (d) establish or sign
10 The FVM has already been initiated in the states of Para and Goias, both to be served by
FUNDESCOLA 1.
12



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
agreements with states, municipalities, and other government and international agencies;
(e) determine, together with the states, the definition of minimum operational standards;
(f) elaborate the annual implementation program based on the microregional programs;
(g) conduct project-related regional, state, and micro-planning studies; (h) analyze and
submit to the World Bank the relevant documentation for the acquisition of goods and
services and expenditure receipts; (i) define operational norms and standards for
FUNDESCOLA operation; () coordinate with the World Bank the general guidelines for
FUNDESCOLA (and its project) MoIP; and (k) prepare the progress reports and participate in
the mid-term and final review according to World Bank procedure.
At the state level, FUNDESCOLA will operate by means of the COEP established
within each state education secretariat, which will: (a) serve as the key administrative project
unit at the state level; (b) coordinate project execution across municipalities and state school
systems; (c) promote the development of municipal action programs within the
microregions; (d) coordinate communication and cooperation among the local government
agencies involved in project-related activities; (e) supervise and collaborate on the municipal
programs; (f) support the development of inter-municipal cooperation within the
microregions; (g) assist municipal secretariats in implementing the school development plan;
(h) analyze and consolidate the school subprojects submitted by the School Development
Group (GDE); (i) foster the operation of school councils and community participation;
(j) coordinate teacher certification programs; (k) procure goods and services according to the
guidelines of the World Bank; (1) record and certify expenditures; (m) prepare progress
reports; and (n) monitor and evaluate the outputs and outcomes of FUNDESCOLA in each
state. As an executive agency, rather than a planning unit, COEP will be established and its
members selected and trained at the initiation of the project implementation period.
At the microregional level, FUNDESCOLA has adopted the IBGE-designed
concept of the microregion as the best way to promote collaboration and coordination
between municipal and state education management personnel in each of the municipalities
involved, and to maximize efforts and resources within a microregion. The mayors, or their
representatives, in conjunction with the state secretary of education, the DEMEC
representative, and the state president of National Association of Municipal Education
Managers (UNDIME) are members of the microregion forum which operates as a local
planning instance of the project to: (a) negotiate the priorities within and across the
municipal and the state education systems in the microregion; (b) agree on the consolidation
of the various municipal action programs into a single, prioritized microregion action
program (PAZ), (c) agree on common targets for the microregional action program; (d) plan
and monitor the implementation of the microregional action program; and (e) and propose
the annual implementation program to be financed by FUNDESCOLA to be approved by the
DGP. The microregion forum, is assisted and advised by a technical group, whose role is to
complete the requisite surveys, the preliminary microregional action program, its
implementation schedule, and other technical documents. The microregion forums have
undergone extensive training by the DGP and are well established in each of the project
states. The states of Acre, Amapd, Goias, Para, Mato Grosso do Sul, Tocantins and Roraima
have already submitted the PAZ to the DGP, while the states of Amazonas, Mato Grosso and
13



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
Rondonia are currently finalizing their PAZ documentation with technical assistance from the
DGP.
At the municipal level, each participating mumicipality, already participating
in the microregional forum, is responsible for: (a) designing the municipal action program
and schedule, and the municipal annual implementation schedule; (b) assisting the school in
designing their own school development plan and school subprojects; (c) fostering the
operation of school councils and community participation; (d) actively participating in their
microregion forums; (e) developing inter-municipal cooperaltion within the microregion; and
(f) monitoring the delivery of goods and services procured by the COEP.
IV. Project Rationale
A. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejectionl
A number of alternatives associated with primary education quality, access,
and management as well as other education levels were discussed. The program components
were finally chosen as the most suited to maximize eduacational impact and resource
allocation.
Primary Education: Alternatives for improvin,g the quality of basic schooling
for all included: (a) establishment of a completely bottom-up school-driven method for
determining needs and resources; and (b) implementation of a entirely top-down model in
order to ensure effective control at the national level. The fully bottom-up alternative was
rejected based on the evaluation of capacity at the school and system level that indicated that
school directors are not yet politically or technically capable of adequately expressing and
rapidly attaining their needs for school inputs within the structure of the current system.
High levels of control and centralized management at the federal and state level would
further preclude school directors from taking control and effectively ensuring the best
interests of the child. Furthermore, project components such as coordination of teacher
certification, and assurance of selected school items was found to be more cost-effective if
selected at the local level than if purchased and distributed at the state level. For these
reasons, a more integrated form of project implementation that includes both top-down and
bottom-up methods was selected.
The second alternative of a completely top-down method for ensuring school
quality was rejected as prior project experience and education sector evaluations have
demonstrated that local interests need to be considered in order to ensure effective
implementation and use. In the case of school inputs, selection of materials at the school
level by means of a survey, followed by definition of minimum standards at the state level,
will help to guarantee that school needs are met, while reducing costs due to mass purchase
and distribution. The government has committed itself to decentralization efforts through
such programs as direct school transfer programs, school feeding programs, and textbook
selection, in order to guarantee local autonomy and greater efficiency in the application of
resources.
14



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
As to school access, from the supply side two major alternatives were
examined: (a) embark in a school-building program; and (b) allow the states and all
municipalities to design and build their own schools. Although the project regions show the
highest level of school deficit in the country, the first alternative was rejected on three
accounts: micro-planning could help rationalize the use of existing spaces; school quality
could attract and retain the incoming population; and the resources were insufficient to meet
all the needs of additional physical infrastructure. Due to quality and cost-effectiveness
reasons, the second alternative was also rejected. Instead, FUNDESCOLA decided to motivate
the states and municipalities to develop standard architectural plans for the schools of each
state. Procurement for school construction will be carried out by COEP in future projects. On
the demand side, an approach similar to Bolsa Escola which gives a minimum salary to
needy families provided that they enroll and maintain their children in school, was
considered. However further analysis demonstrates that this type of program has better
chances of success in high quality school systems. Beneficiary assessment analysis and
classroom observation studies (carried out under the "Call to Action" program)
demonstrated that children's persistence in school, and their parents' expectations about
educational attainment, are low when they believe that the school offers a low quality
education. Consequently, this alternative was rejected in favor of a project that attacks the
supply-based problems of the project's participating microregions, namely the lack of
planning, low school quality and insufficient school places.
Competing management forms were examined. Three alternative options
deserved more attention: (a) a low-key approach to management in favor of a heavy input
orientation; (b) program delivery by the state education secretariat; and (c) focus on the
municipality as the program work unit. The first approach would repeat mistakes of the past
and therefore was rejected. Management has become a decisive component as the catalyst of
other human, institutional, and financial resources of the program. The second alternative
was eliminated as experience gathered by the Northeast Basic Education Project shows that
an approach combining both state and municipal education secretariats would better serve
the mandated decentralization process. The last alternative was promptly discarded given the
multiplicity of municipalities with which the DGP would negotiate. The concept of
microregion and its forum helped establish a cooperative and mediating instance between
FUNDESCOLA, federal and state administration, and the hundreds of municipalities involved.
Other Education Levels: Preschool programs. The option of including
preschool education in the project was rejected as it would have diverted scarce resources
and diluted the impact on primary education. The importance of preschool education
programs and their impact on future student success has been examined in Brazil and other
countries. Preschool education is currently under investigation by the government as an area
for future investment.
Adult education: The relationship between the average level of education of
adults in the community and student achievement was found to be three times that of the
impact of the teachers' level of education. The education of the current generation of
15



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
students was found to have a greater impact in terms of each dollar spent, as well as a
greater length of time in which to realize those returns. The costs associated with adult
education, in terms of developing facilities, training, and hiring of teachers and income
foregone are very high. This project is based on the government's affirmation (as indicated
at the 1995 World Conference on Basic Education for All) ihat provision of quality basic
education to all children is of highest priority.
Secondary Education: Rates of return to primary education were found to be
high, with an average of 13 percent for each additional year of primary school completed.
Investment in secondary education in the North and Center-West regions would not at this
time be considered the most equitable or cost-effective investment. Expansion of primary
education will provide additional opportunities for children to advance to secondary
education, where rates of return are higher (in excess of 20 percent). This may be an added
incentive for children to complete upper primary education, where rates of return are lower.
Secondary education is currently under consideration by the government for possible future
investment.
B. Major related projects financed by the Bank or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing, and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector issue                   Project                        Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
P'rogress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Primary education access and   Northeast Basic     completed
quality                         Education I
Primary education quality      Urban Basic         completed
Education Project,
"Monhangara"
Primary education access and   Northeast Basic     S               S
quality                         Education II
Primary education quality      Northeast Basic     S               S
Education III
Primary education quality      Innovations in Basic  S             S
Education
Primary education quality      Parana Education    S               S
Quality__               _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _  _ _ _
Primary education quality      Minas Gerais Pro-    S              S
quality            _
16



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
Sector Issue                   Activities                            Status
Other development agencies
UNICEF                         Complementary to Bank Projects;
Child Rights focus Support to non-
government sector
Ford Foundation                Ceara Early Child Development    not started
Project
IDB                            Parand Secondary Education      not started
Professional Education         just started
Notes: IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU
(Highly Unsatisfactory)
C. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Following the lessons learned from the design and implementation process of
the Northeast Basic Education Project (NEBE ii, FY 1993, Loan 3604-BR and NEBE III,
FY1994, Loan 3663-BR), and prior Bank experience in Brazil (including EDURURAL),
FY1980, Loan 1867-BR), FUNDESCOLA will incorporate those project aspects that were
successful in achieving their intended objectives, avoiding those aspects that, upon
evaluation, were deemed incomplete or unattainable. These lessons primarily include (a) a
fund design concept for project disbursement; (b) development of specialized training
modules for targeted areas, with emphasis on the school; (c) the National Textbook Program
(PNLD) evaluation and distribution processes; and (d) training programs for education
managers. The focus on primary education is in line wiih the shift in overall World Bank
policy, under which Bank lending is increasingly focused on primary education.
The design of FUNDESCOLA was heavily influenced by the fund design of the
Northeast Basic Education Project, which allows for more efficient institutions to draw upon
the available resources. This process was found to be very effective in reducing waste,
promoting effective resource management, and ensuring the arrival of funds to those using
them to the greatest advantage. As proved in the experience of the Northeast Basic
Education Project, each state, municipality, and school will be accountable to and coordinate
with existing systems managers to ensure successful implementation of the project.
International project experience has also influenced the formation of the
FUNDESCOLA program, including (a) the lessons from Chile, Uruguay, and other Latin
American countries in promoting school subprojects (PE) for the procurement of context-
appropriate materials and increasing stakeholder input; and (b) the Colombian Escuela
Nueva program, which achieved effective results in the modular use of textbooks, capacity-
building of teachers, student-centered learning, evaluation of student attainment, and
community participation for multi-grade schools.
17



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I              Project Appraisal Document
The current nationwide evaluation process of textbooks (PNLD) was adopted
and developed by MEC based on the previous experience of the NEBE I and II, which
introduced innovative procurement procedures. The purchase of textbooks is now made
through the teachers' choice based on a guide containing titles recommended by education
specialists and teachers. This guide classifies the books according to content and
pedagogical quality, promoting improvement by the publishers.
Textbook distribution for the entire country has improved significantly since
the first delivery made under the Northeast Basic Education projects. The books now arrive
at the start of the school year, their arrival in the school is being monitored through a special
operation introduced by MEC, and a new delivery system is being implemented by the post
office.
To promote effective personnel management of basic education, the project
derives lessons from the positive experience of the Northeast Basic Education Project in the
training and capacity-building of municipal and state secretaries in the Northeast (Municipal
Education Secretaries Support Program [PRASEM]). The project coordination unit will
continue to build upon the success of the Northeast Basic Edlucation Project, especially in
terms of effective management techniques and built-in accountability requirements.
D. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The government has shown extensive commitment to FUNDESCOLA by means
of three principal channels: (a) the new legal, financial, and operational framework of the
primary education sector; (b) concrete goals outlined in the National Plan for Education; and
(c) project components and groundwork that are being initiated and implemented prior to
project appraisal.
The legal framework of the education sector is shaped by two main statutes:
(a) the National Education Law - LDB (fiscal 1996), which replaces the 1961 LDB and
emphasizes basic education universalization and quality, strengthens the autonomy of
municipal systems, stresses the adequacy of schooling to meet local demands, and fosters
the creation of evaluation systems; and (b) the Statute for Chiidren and Adolescents (Article
227 of the constitution, based on Law 8069/90), which guarantees the right to an education
that includes personal, citizenship, and vocational development, in addition to outlining the
responsibilities and channels for government, parents, and educators to ensure this right. The
financial programs will be shaped by (a) the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of
Basic Education and Teacher Valorization (FvM), which redistributes the financial resources
for education; and (b) the direct school transfer program, which rapidly transfers FNDE
resources directly to schools. Operational tools include (a) the National Textbook Program
(PNLD), which evaluates, selects, buys, and distributes textbooks for all eight grades of
primary school; (b) the Research and Operationalization Program of Education Policies
(PPo), which, in a series of thirteen studies, examined the root causes of student failure in
18



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
primary schools. Their findings provide the foundation for the strategies of FUNDESCOLA;
(c) the Northeast Basic Education Project, which, since 1993, has expanded, rehabilitated,
and built schools, trained teachers, purchased and distributed textbooks, and created new
management systems. Its education strategies, research studies, and fund model markedly
influenced the design of FUNDESCOLA; (d) the National System for Basic Education
Evaluation - SAEB, which, since 1990, has contributed to the growth of an evaluation
culture in the areas of student performance, teaching methods, and school management
practices; and (e) the Computerized Planning and Monitoring System (SPA), which tracks
the implementation of the Northeast Basic Education Project on-line, and which will be
applied to FUNDESCOLA.
The recently released National Plan for Education outlines the government's
goals and strategies for education over the next ten years. The proposed initiatives for the
primary education sector include:
(a) increased access and permanence to include all children aged seven to fourteen,
with special attention to the Northeast and urban periphery;
(b) increased number of graduates by 70 percent, which will require a reduction by 5
percent in dropout and repetition rates, and reduction of the average number of years
it takes to complete primary school to nine years;
(c) increase in student performance according to SAEB results;
(d) elimination of the category of 'lay teacher';
(e) definition of minimum operational standards;
(f) guarantee that new schools meet the minimum operational standards;
(g) provision of at least four textbooks to every child;
(h) assurance that every school offers at least four grades of instruction;
(i) provision of transport in rural areas;
(j) continuation of the school feeding program;
(k) increase in the community's role in the school through school councils, volunteer
programs, and maintenance;
(1) promotion of school autonomy;
(m) expansion, within five years, of the mandatory primary education to nine years
of instruction, beginning at six years of age;
(n) assurance that within three years there will be at least twenty hours of
instructional time per week;
(o) elimination, within three years, of programs with more than two daily sessions
and one evening session; and
(p) expansion of instructional time to a full school day with priority to low achieving
groups and the first few grades of the primary cycle.
In preparation for FUNDESCOLA the DGP has: (a) discussed the project's
proposed design through several meetings with state and municipal education staff in each
of ten capitals of the North and Center-West regions; (b) conducted training for thirty-four
state and municipal government staff in the application of one of the key instruments for the
program; (c) held at least thirty meetings with state and municipal representatives to discuss
19



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I              Project Appraisal Document
the project's framework and reach agreements on: the participation of executors, the creation
of the microregionalforum, the naming of the project team in each state, and the time-frame
for project execution. In addition FUNDESCOLA was formally presented and discussed by
participating municipal and state secretaries in the three regions through nineteen PRASEM
seminars, as well as meetings with the National Council of State Education Secretaries
(CONSED) with all state secretaries of Brazil in Gramado (RS) and Belem (PA). Meetings
were also held with World Bank staff in Washington with the project preparation team, the
country director in Brasilia, the minister of education, and the presidents of UNDIME and
CONSED.
The status of preparation of FUNDESCOLA is well advanced, with such
completed items as detailed and operational instruments with a schedule for implementation;
instruments for macro-planning and micro-planning, including a detailed assessment of each
participating school; and instruments for the microregional plan;s (municipal action program
(PAM) and microregional action program (PAZ). Much of the initial definition of instruments
was completed prior to project appraisal, and at the time of this report, many of the
microregions had completed the PAZ and school survey process, demonstrating substantial
initiative and commitment on the part of the project team.
E. Value Added of Bank Support
Informed Cooperation: As the chief external finamcing institution in the area
of basic education over the past ten years, the Bank has had the opportunity of developing a
well-informed and close familiarity with the key education issues. More importantly, over
the last few years it has built up a fluent dialogue with the leading education authorities and
institutions of Brazil. This dialogue has grown despite the presence of ideological
differences between a number of the key actors (including UNDIME, CONSED, UNICEF, MEC,
and the universities), and across changes in the political lamdscape, resulting in such
products as "A Call to Action," PRASEM and the Ppo. Consequenitly, the Bank is able to play
the role of the "honest broker" in policy dialogue, and provide continuity, critical in
supporting the implementation of both development projects ancl policy reform.
Identification of Key Poverty Issues: Bank education and poverty sector work
have facilitated the identification of key poverty and regional imbalance issues, which have
contributed to FUNDESCOLA strategic choices.
Local and Regional Knowledge: The recent cooperation and exchanges
developed with the two major national professional associations of education managers of
the country, the National Council of State Education Secretaries (CONSED) and the National
Association of Municipal Education Managers (uNDIME), have provided the Bank with
detailed information and analytical perception of local, state and regional needs and
demands. Especially important is the Bank's ability to use global knowledge to create local
solutions in the areas of education evaluation and assessmenit, teacher certification and
training programs, governance reforms and management techniques. Derived from
experience gathered from supporting basic education projects in other countries in the region
20



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
(as well as elsewhere in the world), particularly with regard to school development process,
this ability will provide a tremendous benefit to the Borrower.
Readiness to Work in the Developing Regions: Based on the lessons learned
from EDURURAL (completed in 1990) and studies and instruments prepared by the ongoing
Northeast Basic Education Project, the Bank is well prepared to incorporate poverty
targeting into an education project.
Innovation: Although World Bank-financed projects in Brazil differ from one
another tremendously, all have generated innovation. During the preparation and
implementation of this program, the Bank will leverage the success and experience gathered
from these innovations, including textbook development and student performance evaluation
from the Northeast Basic Education Projects, school strengthening in the Minas Gerais
project, teacher development and accelerated learning in Sao Paulo, and municipalization in
Parana.
V. Summary Project Analysis"
A. Economic12
The starting point of FUNDESCOLA I's economic analysis is the fact that high
repetition rates have clogged the flow of students in such a way that both academic
achievement and per student costs depend primarily on increasing approval rates. The high
cost of primary education is related to the fact that 19.26 years of enrollment are necessary
to produce one 8i" grade graduate  instead of the 8 that would be necessary if the flow of
students were perfect. FUNDESCOLA'S main weapon against high repetition is the School
Development Plan (PDE) - the other components are responsible primarily for creating the
environment where PDE s will be fruitful. The two variables that will determine how much
repetition drops are: (i) the percentage of schools undertaking PDE s, which depends on the
number of schools raised up to Minimum Operating Standards and (ii) the average
effectiveness of each PDE.
The cost-benefit analysis of FUNDESCOLA was undertaken in the following
manner: (i) a flow model was estimated for each participating microregion; (ii) a historical
trend was applied to project how the flow of students would look without the project; (iii)
the impact of the project on this flow was estimated using the two key variables described
above; (iv) the difference between the two flows was taken; (v) given this difference, the
savings in enrollment and increases in academic achievement were calculated ; (vi) these
11 Detailed assessments are in the project file; see Annex 9.
12 See Annex 4.
13 In the North, the number is 31.55 and in the Center-West 19.97. The figures refer to 1996
educational census. This does not mean that the average 8t grade graduate takes 19 years to
finish school, as enrollment years pertaining to those who drop out before 8th are also
counted.
21



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
savings and increases were converted into two monetary flows up to the year 2012 using per
student cost and private rate of return to education; and finally (vii) the internal rates of
return for each of the two flows were calculated for five to ten and 15 years of project life.
The IRR results are as follows:
Scenario                         Worst    Middle   Middle  Best
Poor      Good
Social IRR after 10 years        1.01%     12.54%    24.26%   39.37%
Social IRR after 15 years        9.26%     19.08%    29.23%   42.66%
Even under the most unfortunate and bleak of scenarios, the social rate of
return after 15 years is quite satisfactory. The reasons for these impressive results is dismal
state of the flow of students in Northern and Center-Western schools. High repetition rates
make each student cost from twice to three times what he might under a perfect flow and by
discouraging students drastically reduces their academic achievement. The consequence is
that even small increases in approval rates can have large effects.
B. Financial'4
Two issues are important in analyzing the project from the financial point of view:
whether it places a burden upon the Federal treasury and whelher it is sustainable.
Annex 5 shows that the fully disbursed project will amount to less that 0.1% of the
total Federal debt. Counterpart funds for the project will amount to less than 3% of Federal
education expenditures, showing that these will also not be a weight upon Federal finances.
Sustainability was analyzed in the economic analysis: reduction in retention rates will
cause the flow of students to be straightened out and thus reduce the per student cost of
education. For example, in a steady state flow model, a hypothetical reduction in retention
rates from 50 to 20 percent will reduce the number of enrollment years to produce a primary
school graduate from 14.8 to 9.9, a cost reduction of nearly 50 percent.
C Technical:
[X] Summarize issues below (for example, appropriate technology, costing)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified)   [ None
During the last three years, curriculum parameters for all lower primary grades were
revised and thoroughly updated and detailed by MEC for use by all schools in the country.
These parameters are being completed for all eight grades of primary school. The
FUNDESCOLA teacher and staff development programs, and the education materials to be
acquired with FUNDESCOLA support will be evaluated by education experts during project
4 See Annex 5.
22



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
preparation and implementation to ensure that they are consistent with these curricular
parameters.
The Program of Research and Operationalization of Education Policy
conducted structured classroom observations in 140 grade schools in the Northeast. A direct
observation methodology was employed, complemented by an observation schedule, a
teachers' questionnaire, an interview schedule on the socioeconomic conditions of the
students, a test of student performance in the Portuguese language, and a card for describing
the school. Among other findings, the study confirmed that the classroom continues to be
focused on the teacher and teacher activities, rather than on the student, that there is an
emphasis on routine activities in the classroom, that very little actual teaching is being
accomplished during the school hours, and that educational materials are not being used in
the classroom. These findings will be tested in the North and Center-West regions during
project startup.
Teacher certification and career planning are crucial aspects of education
policy as teacher salaries normally comprise up to 90 percent of the education budget of
each municipality. As mandated by the 1996 LDB, all teachers must hold at least a teaching
certificate by 2001. A portion of the FVM may be used to fund teacher certification
programs. The cost of developing, implementing, and coordinating the programs will be
supported by FUNDESCOLA. Teacher career planning, another vital issue to both financial
sustainability and planning at the municipal level, will also be addressed in the seminars and
training modules provided to the municipal and state secretaries.
D. Institutional:
[X] Summarize issues below (for example, project management, monitoring and evaluation
capacity, administrative regulations)
a. Executing agencies: Much of the success of FUNDESCOLA I will hinge on the willingness
and capacity of the state and municipal secretaries to cooperate within the environment of
the microregion forum. In assessing the capacity of the municipal and state secretaries to
coordinate with one another, the project's experience in training and collaboration in a
number of FUNDESCOLA instruments has been very telling. In many cases the discussions
generated among the state and municipal secretaries were among the first recorded by either
party. The microregion forum provided an historic opportunity for state and municipal
coordination, with FUNDESCOLA and the imminent FVM as incentives. The collective ability
of the group of secretaries in terms of planning, monitoring, procurement, and management
is much greater than that of any one municipal secretary, operating independently. The range
of experience, education, and abilities that each secretary brings to the forum will enrich
both the experience of the forum members and the product of their efforts, the microregional
action plan.
b. Project management: The Project Coordination Unit has more than five years of
experience in managing the disbursement of resources of the Northeast Basic Education
Project.
23



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
E. Social:
FUNDESCOLA I's ability to achieve its educational goals as an equity oriented
project may be somehow affected, both positively and negatively, by identified social
factors. Three of the most positive factors at play are the solid and increasing political
support provided by the government to basic education, the brand-new and many-faceted
national consensus for and commitment to education, and parents' continuing demand for
educational services for their children in spite of serious economic constraints. Four social
factors, however, may still deter people in the two project regions from taking advantage of
FUNDESCOLA educational opportunities: (a) insufficient supply of primary school places,
particularly in rural and Amazon areas (even though 75 percent of the schools but 19 percent
of the students in both regions are rural); (b) scarce availability (only 15 percent) of primary
schools offering grades five to eight in the North and Center-West; (c) the direct and
opportunity costs of attending school, both for boys and girls; and (d) children's and
parents' discouragement and aversion to school, generated by grade repetition
(approximately 17 percent or over 730,000 students in the two regions) and overall school
lack of relevance and attractiveness. Within an increasingly flexible productive system and
versatile society, the Brazilian basic school has changed in scale without changing in nature.
FUNDESCOLA will address these negative factors by: (a) rationalizing and
maximizing the use of school facilities, rehabilitating existing schools and building schools
closer to demand, especially in rural and dispersed areas; (b) expanding schools and
systematically adding new grades to the incomplete schools'5 so that grades five through
eight can be offered as part of the mandatory eight years of primary education; (c) reducing
the financial costs of education through the provision of more convenient school places or
location (microplanning) in order to reduce transportation cost or walking distance; and
(d) making school more relevant and efficient through quality-oriented inputs. By targeting
the poorest regions of Brazil the FUNDESCOLA program and the FUNDESCOLA I project seek
to reinforce socioeconomic reform, reduce interregional disparities, and promote social
equity, cohesion, and stability.
The Program of Research and Operationalization of Education Policy
conducted beneficiary assessments in the Northeast region. Interviews with social groups
were used as a data-gathering procedure. The interviews were conducted without a closed
interview schedule; there were only a few selected themes, and considerable freedom was
given to the interviewers. The selected themes were the value of the school, the quality of
the school, the school-family relationship, barriers to schooling, and suggestions for school
improvements. The key findings were that parents' aspirations and expectations regarding
the level of schooling their children should attain are limited by their own experiences and
knowledge. Children and youth attribute importance to the school, but their vision is less
idealized than that of the adults. They have a low opinion of the utility of what they learn,
and their expectations for educational attainment are low. Parents and children alike explain
that low school quality deters children from completing the schooling process.
15 Incomplete schools are mostly those that only offer grades one through four, or less.
24



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I              Project Appraisal Document
F. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category    []A        []B         [X] C
As a Category C project, FUNDESCOLA not only does not present any
environmental risk but will contribute to improving environmental awareness through the
dissemination of the New National Curriculum Parameters for environmental education.
School rehabilitation to allow for provision of minimum operational standards (Mos) will
take place on existing school sites. Considerable planning will be undertaken for future
construction of schools, which will be built according to acceptable standards and
environmental norms.
G. Participatory approach16
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Stakeholders         Identification/Preparation   Implementation   Operation
State  Secretaries  of IS + CON                IS + CON         IS + CON + COL
Education
CONSED               IS + CON                  IS + CON         IS + CON + COL
UNDIME               IS + CON                  IS + CON          IS + CON + COL
Municipal  Secretaries IS + CON                IS + CON          IS + CON + COL
of Education
b. Other key stakeholders:
Beneficiaries        Identification/Preparation   Implementation  Operation
Students             IS                        IS               IS + CON
Teachers             IS + CON                  IS + CON         IS + CON
Parent and Community IS + CON                  IS + CON         IS + CON+COL
Organizations       I_I_I_I
(IS, Information Sharing; CON, Consultation; COL, Collaboration)
FUNDESCOLA has been prepared adopting a wide and detailed participatory
strategy. The experience gathered by the FUNDESCOLA team in managing NEBE II in
coordination with key stakeholders (municipal and state education secretariats, UNDIME,
CONSED, universities, and DEMEC, among others) prompted, from the start, a very
participatory preparation process in the capital microregions of the ten states involved. In
each of these capital city microregions (eighty municipalities on the whole), their active
involvement and initiatives have been channeled to FUNDESCOLA through the following
activities: (a) the discussion and elaboration of the conceptual framework, or log-frame, as a
disciplined way to organize and mobilize the project preparation team around a conceptual
and operational instrument; (b) the involvement of mayors and the municipal and state
secretaries of education in two consultation PRASEM meetings; (c) the setting up of
Municipal Education Plans by the municipal education secretaries in view of the upcoming
16 Key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced.
25



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
project; (d) the development, by municipal and state education secretariats, of a thorough
assessment of their schools as compared to the agreed minimum operational standards
checklist; and (e) the participation in a preliminary beneficiary assessment carried out in five
of the ten project states and which will be completed by further and more factual
consultation with a variety of representative stakeholders,
26



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I               Project Appraisal Document
VI. Sustainability and Risks
A. Sustainability
Financial Sustainability: Financial sustainability of the first project is
ensured by both the external context and internal composition of FUNDESCOLA. The most
important issue of financial sustainability in terms of the external context of FUNDESCOLA is
ensured by its relationship to the FVM. FUNDESCOLA will operate concurrently with the FVM,
which automatically transfers resources within each state to assure a minimum per-student
expenditure of R$315 (1997).. With regard to internal composition, financial sustainability
is ensured by the phasing mechanism of FUNDESCOLA. For school construction, typically the
largest fraction of total project expenditures, FUNDESCOLA requires that microplanning and
architectural plans be approved prior to school construction, which is expected to occur in
subsequent project in the FUNDESCOLA program. The school development process
encourages the school to manage its own affairs as well as to look to community and state
resources for support, through the school development plan, which must indicate sources of
funding (FUNDESCOLA or otherwise) for current and planned projects.
Institutional Sustainability: The fact that FUNDESCOLA was designed to work
in synergy with other major national primary education programs shows that the project is
not an exception in the government's strategy to eliminate regional disparities and promote
quality education throughout the country. Several initiatives adopted by the government
have made the institutional framework more conducive to sustainability. In addition,
FUNDESCOLA I has been designed as a prospective operation with a clear-cut preparatory
role. Its strategies and components aim to serve as a building block and to create medium-
and long-term institutional conditions and instruments for more ambitious subsequent
projects to unfold under the FUNDESCOLA program. These strategies include (a) the
definition, establishment, and dissemination of minimum operational standards as a
pernanent yardstick to gauge the several elements of school quality; (b) the managerial and
change-oriented skills, including microplanning and evaluation, to be incorporated into the
municipal and state education secretariats; (c)the focus on school and community
participation, including the school council, the school development plan, the school
subprojects, and the direct school funding program, all of which point to grassroots identity,
local ownership, sustainability, and increased demand for education services and their
quality; and (d) the decentralization of education authority and resources to the municipal
level and, where possible, to the school level, brings crucial decision elements closer to the
school/community context. Its first consequence is the strengthening of the Municipal
Education Secretariats, possibly the most decisive step toward local school affirmation and
continuity; and (f) the participatory and vigorous scheme maintained by the National
Council of State Secretaries (CONSED) and the National Association of Municipal Education
Managers (TUNDIME) ensures institutional conditions for permanence. Although the
microregional forum is not a institutional level per se, it plays a powerful role in promoting
local political representation, cooperation, and planning. Furthermore given the staggered
nature of elections in Brazil, the presence of a functioning microregional forum will help
assure that the impact of post-election changes in leadership and institutional instability is
minimized.
27



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I              Project Appraisal Document
Additional mechanisms that the project management itself will undertake to
ensure sustainability vary by each component. Minimurn operational standards will be
defined in accordance with those proposed by MEc in the ten year plan for education. In
addition the project management will initiate a national campaign to identify and rank top
schools according to criteria such as minimum operational standards; promotion, repetition,
and drop-out rates; level of teacher and school director education; existence of a school
council; and other school-quality indicators.  School development plans and their
accompanying school subprojects will benefit from coordination between the existing direct
school funding program, such that the mechanisms for F'NDE are used according to MEC
regulation. Experience in Mato Grosso and elsewhere has shown that once a school and its
community become involved in the school development process, they are much more likely
to continue. With respect to the management component, 1the creation of a certification and
training culture, such that school councils will demand certified, experienced school
directors and municipal secretaries of education, will promnote sustainability beyond the life
of the project.
B. Critical Risks17
Risk                                    Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of political commitment and technical N         Social  Marketing  fosters
support of state and municipal education             community  pressure  for
secretariats.                                        change.
Low level of cooperation among the state and M       Microregional  forum   and
municipal  systems   in  operationalizing            required cooperation.
resources.
Lack of commitment of the school team and M          Fostering community support
low community participation.                         through various media.
End of decentralization efforts on the part of N     Political awareness of success
federal government.                                  at local level.
Failure to implement the Fund for Maintenance M      Understanding on the part of
and Development of Primary Education and             secretariats  of  the  re-
Valorization of Teachers.                            distributive value of the Fund.
Lack of community and political commitment M         Social Marketing.
for reform including demand for quality
services, social mobilization, and monitoring.    _
Low   commitment  for  improving  the M              Fostering of social awareness
educational experience as a means of poverty        through   publication   of
reduction and national development.                  success of project.
Overall Risk Rating                     M            _ ___ ___
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low
Risk)
17 Reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1.
28



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                Project Appraisal Document
VII. Main Loan Conditions
A. Effectiveness Conditions
There are only two effectiveness conditions:
1) the signing of at least five Microregional participation agreements, which
govern the relationships and Project-related responsibilities of MEC and
the participating state and municipal governments in each Microregion.
2) the registration of the Loan Agreement by the Central Bank.
VIII. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] The Project Operations and Implementation Manual has been appraised and found to be
realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
IX. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies, especially those indicated below:
[ ]  Indigenous peoples               [    Riparian water rights
[ ]  Cultural property                [    Financial management
[ ]  Environmental impacts            [    Financing of recurrent costs
[ ]  Natural habitats                 [X]  Local cost sharing
p[X   Gender issues                   [X]  Cost-sharing above country three-year average
[ ]  Involuntary resettlement         [X]  Retroactive financing above nornal limit
[ ]  NGO involvement                  [ ]   Disputed territory
[X]  Other (provide necessary details)
Task Manager/Team Leader: Robin Scott Horn, LCSHD   (  
Sector Manager/Director: Julian Schweitzer, LCSHD
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani, LCC5C                 ('X 
29






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                 Annex 1
Project Logfiame
Annex 1
FUNDESCOLA I
Program Design Summary
Key-Ferfotm eu
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve universal primary  1. Increase net enrollment    Sector studies, SAEB  Significant commitment on
education by 2007 and    rates by 5%, (currently 90%,  results, National Census,   the part of the population and
improve academic         95%, and 83%) in the North,  and surveys.          Government to pursue
performance in basic     Northeast and Center-West                          targeted educational efforts
subjects, particularly  regions, respectively (MEC                          that will contribute to
Portuguese and           1996);                                             improve educational access,
mathematics.                                                                completion, and quality
2. Increase the ratio between                      outcomes for the poor.
8th grade graduates and 1 st
grade enrollments from 12%,
13%, and 26% to 20%, 20%,
and 30%, in the three
regions, respectively;
3. Increase the proportion of
4th graders achieving at the
elementary level of
proficiency in mathematics
by 10% (currently 55%,
52%, and 60%) in the three
regions, respectively; and the
proportion of 4th graders
achieving at the elementary
level of proficiency in
Portuguese by 8% (currently
from 59%, 58% and 62%) in
the three regions,
respectively (SAEB 1995).
Program Development    (End of Program Indicators,                          (from Program Development
Objectives:              by June 2001)                                      Objectives to CAS Goal):
Strengthen primary schools  1. Increase enrollment rates   Project completion report,   Continuity of the
and thie public institutions   of children attending schools  official records, surveys  governments' commitment to
responsible for the schools  that meet Minimum     and research studies.    implementing the ongoing
within a coordinated     Operation Standards from an                        educational reforms.
management framework.   initial estimate of less than
10% to over 50% in all
participating microregions;
31



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                 Annex I
Project Logframe
2. Increase enrollment rates                       The school-based
of children attending schools                      development process and the
with implemented School                            minimum operational
Development Plans from an                          standards model are adopted
initial estimate of less than                      and institutionalized at state,
2% to over 50% in all                              municipal, and school levels
participating microregions;
Community and political
3. Promote the elaboration                         commitment continues for
and implementation of                              reform, including demand for
coordinated municipal/state                        quality services, social
education action programs in                       mobilization, and
at least 50% of the                                monitoring.
participating municipalities.
Project I Development    (End of Project I Indicators,                      (from Project I Development
Objectives:              by 2000)                                           Objectives to Program
Development Objectives)
Strengthen primary       1. Increase enrollment rates
schools, and the public  of children attending schools                      Community and political
institutions responsible for  that meet Minimum                             commitment for reform
the schools, within a    Operation Standards from an                        including demand for quality
coordinated management   initial estimate of less than                      services, social mobilization,
framework within the     10% to over 50% in all                             and monitoring.
capital city microregions in  participating microregions;
the North and Center-West                                                   Continued commitment for
states.                  2. Increase enrollment rates                       improving the educational
of children attending schools                      experience for all as a means
with implemented School                            of poverty reduction and
Development Plans from an                          national development.
initial estimate of less than
2% to over 50% in all
participating microregions;
3. Promote the elaboration
and implementation of
coordinated municipal/state
education action programs in
at least 50% of the
participating municipalities.
Project I Outputs:                                                          (from Project I Outputs to
Project I Development
1. Schools with Minimum    1.1 Specification and   1.1.1 DGP Reports.       Objectives)
Operational Standards    quantification of equipment
(MOS) met.               and materials within the                           Continued decentralization
Minimum Standards for                              efforts on the part of the
purchase.                                          federal government.
1.2 Provide equipment and                          Adequate and timely
furnishings to at least 80% of                     implementation of the Fund
32



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                       Annex I
Project Logframe
schools (1-8) in targeted   1.2.1 System Planning and   for Maintenance and
areas.                      Monitoring Reports (SPA),  Development of Primary
and site-inspections.      Education and Valorization
1.3 Provide didactic                                   of Teachers.
materials, teachers' guides,
and reading materials for   1.3.1 Ibid.                Official and community
grades 1-8 in 100% of                                  commitment toward raising
schools in targeted regions.                           school quality.
1.4 Financing of school                                Municipal and State
rehabilitation, learning and                           education managers ensure
administrative materials in    1.4.1 Ibid.             delivery of school inputs.
targeted regions.
1.5 Technical and financial
support of selected programs
to contribute to the        1.5.1 Ibid., as well as
certification of at least 80%    National Census.
of lay teachers.
2. School-Based            2.1 Definition and testing of   2.1.1 DGP Reports.      Political commitment and
Development Process        strategy and instruments for                            technical support of state and
Adopted.                   School Development Plans                                municipal secretariats in
(PDE) and School                                       favor of school quality
Subprojects (PE).                                      improvement.
2.2 School Development      2.2.1 Annual School,       Collaboration among the
Plans (PDE) elaborated in at  Municipal and State      state and municipal systems
least 311 schools.          Secretariat reports.       in optimizing resources.
2.3 Financing of 31 1 School  2.3.1 System Planning and   Commitment of the school
Subprojects (PE) in targeted   Monitoring Reports (SPA),  team and community
areas.                      site-inspections, and      participation.
interviews.
3. School places provided.   3.1 Preparation of Micro-  3. 1.1 System Planning and   Political and institutional
Planning/School-Mapping     Monitoring Reports (SPA),  commitment to assume their
for new school facilities in    site-inspections, and  own specific roles in school
each participating          National Census.           building and maintenance.
microregion.
Adequate acquisition of
3.2 Preparation of          3.2.1 Ibid.                transportation services, when
Architectural Plans for new                            appropriate and cost
school facilities in each state.                       effective.
3.3 Building School         3.3.1 Ibid.                Provision for alternative
Prototypes                                             school facilities during
construction and
_ _____________________  ____________________________   ___________________________  rehabilitation.
4. Administrative and      4.1 Training of:            4.1.1 System Planning and   Dialogue between CONSED
management systems,        * 85% of school directors,   Monitoring Reports (SPA),  and UNDIME, the national
33



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                 Annex 1
Project Logframe
procedures, and processes  municipal secretaries, and  and Supervision Reports.   associations for education
improved and operational at   state secretaries.                            manager.
the school and system level. * at least 100 technicians at
the federal level.                               Receptiveness and flexibility
* Supply of equipment,                             of the State and Municipal
information systems, and                         Education Secretariats to
software to select                               cooperate with one another.
education managers.
Willingness of municipalities
4.2 Provide specialized                            to set up inter-municipal
training and materials in                          consortia and dialogue.
selected areas to 20% of
teachers for grades 1-8.                           Continuity of commitments
and agreements across
4.3 Established strategies for                     political transitions and
social marketing for      4.2.1 System Pllanning and   administrations.
encouraging pro-school    Monitoring Reports (SPA).
mobilization and the creation                      Schools able to use
of school councils.                                information from SIED.
4.4 Technical and financial
support for national      4.3.1 DGP Reports.
programs conducted by the
Ministry of Education.
4.5 Availability of Education
Information Systems (SIED)
outputs to at least 50% of    4.4.1 System Planning and
schools in each participating  Monitoring Reports (SPA).
state.
4.5.1 School Developments
Plans show use of SIED
information. System
Planning and Mvtonitoring
Reports (SPA).
Program Components    (Inputs: budget for each     Financial Reports.       Timely availability of
and Subcomponents:       component)                                         budgetary resources at the
Disbursement reports,   federal level.
1. Raising schools to    1. US$ 90.2 million       procurement records,
minimum operating                                  contracts, and audits.   Competence, commitment,
standards                                                                   and continuity of education
Evaluation Reports.      personnel at all levels.
A. Promoting minimum
operational standards for
schools
B. Educating and certifying                                                 Commitment of state
teachers                                                                    governments to give these
bids a high priority.
34



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                 Annex 1
Project Logframne
C. Financing basic furniture
and equipment
D. Financing school
improvement investments
E. Financing school-
managed rehabilitation
physical facilities
2. Establishing a school  2. US$ 5.3 million                                Openness and willingness of
development process                                                         school team and community
to collaborate with one
A. Designing and                                                            another.
Supporting school
development plans                                                           Continuous community and
political commitment for
B. Finamcing school                                                         improving education.
subprojects
Availability, continuity, and
commitment of technical
staff, both in the state
secretariat and in municipal
secretariats, trained and
equipped to promote and
support the school-based
development process.
3. Plarning and providing   3. US$ 4.3 millions                             Availability of statistical data
additional school places                                                    and maps at the municipal
level.
A. Carrying out of school
microplanning and                                                           Availability of properly
developing of standard                                                      defined (including legal
school architectural plans                                                  conditions) sites for new
construction.
B. Testing standard
architectural plans                                                         Availability of technical staff
(including engineers,
architects, and procurement
specialists) to bid and
supervise construction.
Timely availability of other
school inputs, including
human resources and
teachers.
Commitment of state
governments to give these
bids a high priority.
35



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex I
Project Logframe
4. Strengthening education  4. US$ 25.2 million                            Continuity of technical and
management and project                                                     administrative personnel
administration                                                             involved.
A. Building management                                                     Availability of minimum
capacity in schools and                                                    state and local working
participating municipalities,                                             conditions.
and states
Continuity of Task and
B. Providing specialized                                                   Project Management and
teaching and learning                                                      execution teams
improvement programs
Assurance of qualified
C. Fostering community                                                    technical human resources.
participation
Continued federal support for
D Strengthening national                                                  the institutionalization of the
education information                                                      Census.
systems and programs
E. Financing project
management
36



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                             Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Annex 2
FUNDESCOLAI
Detailed Project Description
FUNDESCOLA Program and Projects
FUNDESCOLA lis the first project within a medium-range and more comprehensive
primary education FUNDESCOLA program designed to support primary education schools in
the nineteen states of the North, Northeast, and Center-West regions of Brazil. All of the
FUNDESCOLA projects, even though targeting different regions, will pursue the same
objectives. They will consist of approximately the same structure and components, and
adopt a similar decisionmaking process.
Summary of Project Objective and Components
FUNDESCOLAI focuses on the ten capital city microregions of the North and Center-
West regions. The development objective of FUNDESCOLA is to strengthen primary schools
and the public institutions that are responsible for them within a coordinated management
framework, in order to increase the participation, promotion and graduation rates, and
achievement levels of children in the North and Center-West capital microregions of Brazil.
In order to meet this objective, FUNDESCOLA I is based on four interrelated components. The
first two components are primarily oriented toward schools, while the remaining
components emphasize the systems that support schools, as described below:
1.    Raising Schools to minimum operational standards
a)    Promoting minimum operational standards for schools
b)    Educating and certifying teachers
c)    Supplying basic furniture and equipment
d)    Financing school improvement investments
e)    Financing school-managed rehabilitation of physical facilities
2.    Establishing a school development process
a)    Designing and supporting school development plans
b)    Financing school subprojects
3.    Planning and Providing Additional School Places
a)    Carrying out school microplanning and developing standard architectural
plans
b)    Testing standard architectural plans
4.    Strengthening Education Management and Project Administration
a)    Building management capacity in schools, municipalities, and states
b)    Providing specialized teaching and learning improvement programs
c)    Fostering community participation
d)    Strengthening national education information systems and programs
e)    Financing project management
37



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                             Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Decisionmaking and Implementation Framework
The basic decisionmaking and implementation framework for the FUNDESCOLA I
project components oriented toward schools is shown in Figure Annex 2-1. The diagram
makes it clear that the school and its community are at the center of the entire project. As
shown here, the schools are supported and served by a school development group (GDE) at
the municipal and state levels; the microregion forum at the microregional level; and the
project executive coordination (COEP) at the state level, and the central project coordination
unit (DGP) at the ministry of education level. The specific ilow of decisionmaking, training,
and financing for each subcomponent is described under the corresponding
"Implementation Arrangements" segment in the Project Operations and Implementation
Manual (MoIP).
Key Institutions Involved in the Decisionmaking Process
COEP The FUNDESCOLA project and coordinating body at the state level, working directly
with SEE, SME, GDE, FORUM, and GT. It is generally located in SEE facilities and
staffed mainly by SEE personnel.
DGP  The major planning, implementing, and evaluatinlg FUNDESCOLA project agency
directly under the responsibility of the ministry of education.
FNDE  A semi-autonomous agency under the MEC umbrella, closely associated with the
FUNDESCOLA project and responsible for the counterpart funds of the federal
government.
FORUM Collective body comprised of the microregion maycors, the state education secretary,
a National Association of Municipal Education Mamagers (uNDIME) representative
and a state-based office of the ministry of education (DEMEC) representative.
GDE  Municipal-based technical and school-oriented team comprised of municipal and
state representatives which deals directly with schools. It is located in SME facilities.
GT   A technical team which works at the microregional ]level as an assistant group to the
FORUM and relates mainly with COEP,SEE and SME.
MEC  In project-related matters, MEC operates mainly through DGP and FNDE.
SEE   Responsible for the state education system and 'headed by the state education
secretary, who is a FORUM member.
SME  Responsible for the municipal education system and headed by the municipal
education secretary.
UE    School level council, fiscal, and administrative unit operated by parents, teachers
and the community.
38



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Description of the Decisionmaking and Implementation Process
The general decisionmaking flow (see Figure 2.1) of the school development
process supported by FUNDESCOLA is described below:
1.    DGP prepares instruments and systems and trains COEP in project activities and in the
use of instruments.
a)    During the initial implementation phase, DGP also trains GDE.
2.    DGP and COEP continue training of, and provide technical assistance to GDE.
3.    GDE works with schools to collect data and help them prepare school development
plans (PDE) and school subprojects (PE).
a)    School works with the community, including the UE, in the PDE and PE
preparation process.
4.    School submits PDE and PE to GDE for analysis and prioritization of needs.
5.    GDE analyzes and submits PE to technical group (GT), which ranks PE in the light of
updated municipal action plans (PAM), which are included as chapters of the
microregional action program (PAZ).
A)    GT submits PE to the microregion FORUM, which on the basis of the
FUNDESCOLA funding ceiling for microregion, negotiates the best PE resource
allocation.
6.    The FORUM recommends FUNDESCOLA funding for the best PE, and COEP coordinates
the corresponding annual work plan (PTA) involving the state and the
municipalities.
7.    COEP delivers draft PTA to DGP for clearance, approval, and preparation of a contract.
8.    DGP submits the contract to state education secretary and mayors for signature.
A description of the implementation arrangements, as well as indicators and targets for each
subcomponent, can be found in the Project Operations and Implementation Manual (MOIP).
39



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Communit
8                                                                 a~~~~~~~~~3
/  un escolax 
/ Project                 /
9  Management  9       /  6chool 00
\  A                _~~~~~A
Secretriat of
School
PrQject    >       >    Development  r.  Tech   rorum
Coordination 2            Group      ,   Team
k                                         M4unicipal       ,
8ecretriat of
lEducation
6
Figure Annex 2 - 1
40



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Project Components
COMPONENT 1: Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards
Objectives
This component will provide inputs and services to assure that the schools in each
municipality participating in the project meet minimum operational standards. This
means that the schools of the North and Center-West regions will offer at least a
pre-defined, minimal set of educational materials, teaching staff, equipment,
furniture, and facilities. The specific objectives are to:
1 .    Define and agree on minimum operational standards objectives and contents;
2.    Promote the establishment of minimum operational standards in the participating
schools to assure that for each municipality the GDE:
a)    knows what the minimum operational standards are;
b)   is able to assess each school with respect to minimum operational standards;
c)   is able to mount a strategy to raise all schools to minimum operational
standards;
d)    knows the critical importance of disseminating the minimum operational
standards model to each school; and
e)   is prepared to mount a strategy to involve the schools in self-evaluation and
upgrading with respect to these standards.
3.    Provide inputs and services to assure that the students in these municipalities are
enrolled in schools that meet minimum operational standards.
Operational Framework
Minimum operational standards is an input-based framework for improving
educational equity with respect to the basic prerequisites of schooling. The rationale
for this approach is based on the existence of a very large number of schools in the
project regions that simply should not be called schools, because they do not
provide even the most minimal conditions for teaching and learning.
The minimum operational standards model is designed to operationalize the
concept of a functioning school. It consists of an agreed-upon, pre-determined set of
essential inputs and conditions needed for a school to be considered "operational."
The key instrument for implementing this model is a simple checklist of the inputs
and services needed for a school to carry out its basic functions. The items included
in the checklist vary with the size of the school. For example, a very small school
can operate without a main office or a school library, whereas a large school would
need these facilities in order to function.
A school operating at minimum operational standards is one that is considered
minimally capable of providing satisfactory conditions for student learning. The
model assumes that a school must have all of the minimum inputs and services
41



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
present in order to achieve the minimum operational standards status. Although
schools and their secretariats can and should seek to provide improvements above
these thresholds in order to enrich the learning environment, schools unable to offer
these essential factors are simply cannot provide an opportunity for children to
learn. Furthermore, attainment of minimum operational standards is considered a
prerequisite for schools to be capable of preparing a PDE and PE.
Definition of Minimum Operational Standards
FUNDESCOLA defines a school operating at the minimum operational standard as one
characterized by the following conditions:
I. the school staff and community are informed of the minimum operational
standards model, are familiar with the checklist, and understand the equity
considerations associated with this model;
2. all students have access to basic textbooks and reading books, and all teachers
have access to teaching guides;1
3. all students have teachers who are minimally qualified under the law;
4. all classrooms have a minimum set of furniture and equipment; the school has
the facilities and equipment to carry out a school feeding program; and, if the
school has more than three classrooms, it will have a basic set of administrative
furniture and equipment;
5. all classrooms have access to basic teaching materials needed for the teacher to
teach;
6. the school offers physical conditions to permit it, at a minimum, to receive or
maintain the inputs and services indicated above,
Subcomponent 1: Promoting minimum operational stand'ards
There are striking disparities between the schools in the North and Center-West
regions as far as teaching and learning conditions and classroom equipment are
concerned. The 1996 National Education Law (art. 4, IX) guarantees that each
public school in Brazil meets acceptable operational. minimum standards. However,
an operational definition is still needed; its incorporation into the daily life and
culture of school and system  management becomes imperative. Under this
subcomponent, the project will provide technical assistance, training, materials, and
communication services to support: (a) the development of minimum operational
standards instruments and instructional materials; (b) the dissemination of the
minimum operational standards model and checklist; and (c) capacity building for
state and municipal education secretariats to develop, implement, monitor, and
evaluate their own initiatives to mobilize schools around the minimum operational
standards model and to raise all schools to these stantdards.
'The ministry of education regularly delivers these teaching inputs which therefore have not been included in
the FUNDESCOLA I project.
42



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Subcomponent 2: Educating and Certifying Teachers
At the end of the year 2001, it will be illegal under the National Education Law for
states or municipalities to have individuals employed as classroom teachers if they
have not been certified. In the project's two regions, there are today 40,700
uncertified primary school teachers, which is approximately 25 percent of all
primary education teachers in the two regions. This subcomponent will support the
national distance teacher education programs combined with the presence of
education strategies designed to upgrade those teachers who do not have the legally
required education and training to teach grades one through four.
Subcomponent 3: Supplying Basic Furniture and Equipment
This subcomponent will acquire all of the basic fumiture and equipment, as defined
in the minimum operational standards checklist, in the quantity and technical
specification necessary to allow classrooms, school administration, and school
feeding programs to function satisfactorily. The classroom items would include
chalkboards, student desks and chairs, teacher desks and chairs, bookshelves, and
storage cabinets. Besides specifications that address durability issues, particular
attention will be given to durability and utility of chairs, the flexible use of desks in
the classroom, and possible mobility of the chalkboard. Administrative items, which
would only be distributed to schools with more than three classrooms, would
include furniture for the principal and a minimal set of office equipment.
Subcomponent 4: Financing School Improvement Investments
The minimum operational standards checklist includes teaching materials, school
supplies and other secretarial and minor operational tools that a school needs to
adequately conduct its daily work. This would include:
a) supplemental reading materials, instructional materials, bulletin boards, globes
and maps, and other audio-visual equipment;
b) administrative supplies;
c) minimal cooking and serving utensils.
This subcomponent will finance the direct acquisition of these teaching and
otherwise operational materials, as well as maintenance services, by schools which
count on UES for these purchases.
Subcomponent 5: Financing School-managed Rehabilitation of Physical Facilities
Under this subcomponent, the project will finance school rehabilitation with the sole
objective of permitting those schools which have UES to maintain or to receive the
inputs and services provided under the minimum operational standards.
Rehabilitation means, in this case, small and targeted physical repairs and
adjustments carried out by the school and the communities to upgrade their facilities
to the educational and safety criteria as defined by minimum operational standards
program.
43



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
COMPONENT 2: Establishing a School Development Process
Objective
This component will promote the development of a planning and decisionmaking
process for school improvement that is centered on the school. The school team -
composed of teachers, parents, community, and the school council - will work
together to identify school needs, and formulate a PDE for the improvement of
student performance. Under the PDES (which includle financial sources other than
FUNDESCOLA), schools will propose PES to be funded under the FUNDESCOLA I
project, which will finance a subset of the PEs proposed by the schools.
This component will also support the development of instruments (i.e., manuals and
training materials), and skills for school teams and for state and municipal education
secretariats to manage the entire process. Therefore, the main objectives of this
component are to: (i) develop within schools a process of educational planning and
local empowerment to improve school quality and efficiency; (ii) prepare both state
and municipal education secretariats to guide, evaluate, facilitate and supervise the
PDE design and implementation processes; and (iii) implement, monitor, and
evaluate PES. Under FUNDESCOLA I this component will place special emphasis on
the testing and improvement of school development instruments and processes for
future FUNDESCOLA projects. SEE and monitors will continue training the GDE and
additional municipalities. The DGP consultants will provide technical assistance
when necessary.
Operational Framework
The overall framework for this component is the school based management
paradigm, which is being supported by the ministry of education and by a number of
states and municipalities. This process is being facilitated by direct transfer of funds
to schools that meet certain requirements. Successful experiences of local ownership
and school autonomy are being implemented, for example, in the schools of the
states of Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, and Sao Paulo. The project will establish or
strengthen institutional capacity at the school and system levels, to prepare or to
facilitate the preparation, execution, and monitoring oi the PDE and the PE.
Subcomponent 1: Designing and Supporting School Development Plans
The school development plan (PDE) is a quality-orienited, multi-year instrument of
strategic planning aimed at improving school quality and efficiency. Through the
PDE the school defines its own values, mission, goals, strategies, educational targets
and responsibilities, with the participation of the community. It also defines the
conditions, including financial, needed to meet the school-specified targets. The PDE
is the product of one process - diagnosis and strategy formulation-, and the
guide for a subsequent process - school improvement.
First the school and its community of parents, teachers, and leaders meet to identify
and prioritize the problems of the school, establish specific school improvement
44



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
targets, agree on a timed action plan, and specify inputs needed to achieve these
results. Once agreed, the PDE serves as a step-by-step guide to the implementation of
the school improvement strategy and the derived PES (see below).
In the same way that the minimum operational standards model varies in
accordance with school size, the PDE instrument can take a variety of forms to adjust
to differences in school or community capacity or interest. In its simplest form, the
instrument will be an agreement on the part of the school staff and parents to seek
specified educational outcome targets. At its most sophisticated, the PDE will be
based on the strategic planning or quality management approach.
Subcomponent 2: Financing School Subprojects
The school subproject (PE) is a section of the PDE that the school can use to apply
for financing from FUNDESCOLA in order to implement selected actions. In
particular, the school is entitled to use the PE instrument to indicate which project
inputs, services, or training activities it needs in order to achieve the educational
targets agreed in the PDE. Just as the minimum operational standards model is
designed to equalize the school environment, the PE aims to individualize the school
by responding to school specific initiatives in order to upgrade school attractiveness
and classroom performance. FUNDESCOLA will finance those PES that are top-ranked
in terms of consistency with project objectives and procedures, coherency with the
PDE, focus on student achievement and performance, and anticipated speed of
implementation. PES are meant to be executed in one year, and is expected that no PE
will exceed US$10,000 in total cost. Only those schools with a UE and a bank
account are entitled to PES financed by FUNDESCOLA I.
COMPONENT 3: Planning and Providing Additional School Places
Objectives
This component plays a clearly preparatory role in developing planning
methodologies and devising interments which ultimately will contribute to increase
access to and student retention in schools of the North and Center-West capital city
microregions. The rationalization process will seek to assess the available capacity
of each municipality, whose deficiencies are indicated either by lack of schools
close to demand (a frequent occurrence in the rural areas) or by the repeated daily
use of school facilities in three- or four-shift schedules (as is the case in urban
zones).
This process will also seek to replace makeshift schools that cannot offer the
minimally adequate environment for learning activities and children's safety. These
schools are frequently small, poorly located as regards population demand, and
poorly built in terms of design and materials. Moreover, these makeshift schools
provoke the misleading idea that the surrounding school demand has been
effectively met. The lack of school planning and rationalization has meant,
therefore, a significant waste of scarce resources in the poorest regions of Brazil.
FUNDESCOLA I will focus on a planning role and will not finance school
construction.
45



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                            Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Subcomponent 1: Carrying out of School Microplanning and Developing Standard
Architectural Plans
This subcomponent will: (a) provide education secretariats with reliable
microplanning methodologies and technologies and the respective training on their
use; (b) promote, on the basis of microplanning results, a school rationalization
process.
Subcomponent 2: Testing Standard Architectural Plans
This subcomponent will develop and promote the adoption of standard school
architectural plans to be applied at state level. In addition, this component will
support the construction of one to three model schools in order to evaluate the
viability of the model architectural plans.
COMPONENT 4: Strengthening Education Management and Project Administration
Objectives
This component seeks to raise the quality of management of the schools and
intermediary institutions so that they can better achieve their academic functions
and social responsibilities of providing equal access and quality education to the
children of the capital city microregions of the North and Center-West regions.
Planning, administration, monitoring, analysis and evaluation capacities of each
level of the system will be developed, from the school level, including community
participation and improvement of teaching skills, to the Municipal and State
Education Secretariats, including fostering the interaction between the two school
systems. Technical and financial support for national quality-oriented programs at
MEC, and institutional strengthening for project coordination and implementation are
also included. There are five subcomponents.
Subcomponent 1: Building Institutional Capacity in Schools, Municipalities and
States
This subcomponent will develop and support better management levels, with
emphasis on the school, municipal education secretariat and state education
secretariat. The centralized and highly bureaucratic administration of the education
system has served for decades to marginalize local management, leaving little room
for school initiatives. In the management of inputs and classroom-related activities
- and they will increase significantly both under the FUNDESCOLA project and the
new MEc programs -    schools lack modem  management techniques and
instruments regularly used by other comparable social institutions. Under this
subcomponent, the project will provide training, equipment, and technical assistance
to develop professional capability of school principals and managerial and technical
staff at state and municipal education secretariats. Since the purpose of this
subcomponent is to strengthen the state and municipal secretariats, enabling them to
support the school-based development process, FUNDESCOLA I will finance only
46



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
those activities that directly support the work being developed under the project.
Subcomponent 2: Providing Specialized Teaching and Learning Improvement
Programs
This subcomponent will focus on the improvement and provision of specially
designed teacher's professional development programs such as "Active School"
(Escola Ativa, Escuela Nueva) and "Accelerated Classes" (Classes de Aceleraqdo).
This strategy is in response to well-identified problems faced by schools and
teachers at the earliest stages of children's schooling, particularly in the poorest and
rural areas. Examples are, for instance, children's lack of readiness for school,
latecomers to schooling, students who are repeating a grade, and slow learners in
general.
Children's early struggles and defeat at school are at the root of most repetition and
dropout cases. For several reasons, the decisive first years of schooling need extra
professional attention and technical expertise. Three additional factors add to the
importance of this subcomponent: (i) the MEC-sponsored implementation of the new
curriculum parameters in the ten project microregions will aggravate the need for
teaching improvement in very specific knowledge areas; (ii) the low-performance
profile of unskilled teachers points to the need for upgrading in crucial aspects of
both content and methodology; and (iii) the documented difficulties that teachers
have in taking advantage of innovations embedded in new educational paradigms,
technologies, and approaches demands the kind of stimulus and support provided by
this subcomponent. The subcomponent will selectively address these problems in a
targeted number of schools.
Subcomponent 3: Fostering Community Participation
Given the importance and novelty of the focus-on-school strategy (see Component
2) and the implementation requirements of FUNDESCOLA itself, a social mobilization
effort is necessary to involve parents, com munities, political leaders, and even
education professionals both in the school development process and the
FUNDESCOLA implementation activities. This mobilization will occur by means of
media communication, national social marketing campaigns, video production,
posters, conferences, socialization activities, and capacity building of interested
groups.
In order to reach these objectives, this subcomponent is designed around the
following three lines of action. (a) First, it will involve community mobilization and
clientele building, by helping different segments of society (parents, communities,
political leaders, and media professionals) to value basic education and organize
themselves around participation in and strengthening of school life and educational
results. (b) Second, the project will initiate information dissemination on
FUNDESCOLA I objectives, strategies, results , and reciprocity with other MEC
2Such as minimum operational standards, school development plans, and the new focus on school.
47



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
programs, through the media and other communication resources. (c) Finally,
FUNDESCOLA I will emphasize the development of informed ownership at the local
level by parents, surrounding community and local leadership in order to assure
practical involvement in school activities, use of schlool as a community-oriented
space and maintenance and protection of school faclilities. As a consequence, this
subcomponent supports the three FUNDESCOLA I components by increasing the
involvement of parents, families, and communities in the schooling process of their
children (including access to schooling, and remaining in school), support of school
activities, participation in their children's learning progress, and participation in the
activities of the school and the UE.
Subcomponent 4: Strengthening National Education Information Systems and
Programs
The project, based on previous and successful experiences, will continue to support
existing and emerging national MEc-sponsored programs designed to improve
school quality. Two main lines of action will be financed by FUNDESCOLA I: (i)
education evaluation which includes the National System for Basic Education
Evaluation (SAEB),the National Databank (BNI); and initiatives to integrate national
and international best practice in educational evaluation; (ii) the Integrated
Education Information System (SIED), the school census, and activieis associated
with data collection and analysis of educational statistics. Financed by the NEBE II or
Projeto Nordeste, SAEB will continue to receive assistance and support from
FUNDESCOLA. SAEB's reports and recommendations, used by education managers,
administrators, researchers, and teachers, have provided the states and the
municipalities with information to identify and address problems and improve
educational practice. SIED is an information system that connects schools,
municipalities, and states with MEC and enables the collection of information to
ensure planning and continuous monitoring of the system. An integral part of MEC,
SIED was also financed by NEBE II, and offers society, administrators, and researchers
an accurate and detailed look at education at the local, state, and national levels.
Subcomponent 5: Financing Project Management
To effectively reach all the beneficiaries at school, imunicipality and microregion
levels, the FUNDESCOLA I management will rely mainly on central (DGP) and state
(COEP) implementation units (see main text of project appraisal document for further
details). Created by MEC to help manage education projects for the poorest regions
of Brazil, the DGP has played a principal role in the FUNDESCOLA project
preparation. Its primary responsibilities include administration of financial resources
of the project, operating as the World Bank coumterpart in the preparation,
discussion, and negotiation process.
During the implementation process DGP will continue to be the key technical
intermediary between regional and local implementation level and the World Bank.
Moreover, DGP will enter into partnership with the other operation levels as the
major responsible for beneficiary assessment, instrument and system designer,
human resource trainer, and provider of key inputs and support. The state-based
48



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
project executive coordination (COEP) will be located in the state education
secretariat and will benefit from its human resources and facilities. On a
complementary basis, DGP can provide COEP with technical assistance and
equipment whenever justified. Under this subcomponent, the DGP will finance an
ongoing and comprehensive study to assess the progress and improve the
implementation and impact of the project and its four components by means of
contracting researchers, assessments and reviews, and beneficiary surveys.
49






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                  Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Annex 3
Federative Republic of Brasil
School Improvement Project - FUNDESCOLA
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
PROJECT COMPONENT                           LOCAL    FOREIGN         TOTAL
US $ million
1.     Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards
1.1    - Promoting Minimum School Operational Standards;            200            0         200
1.2    - Educating and Certifying teachers;                         300            0         300
1.3    - Supplying basic furniture and equipment:;               23,000            0      23,000
1.4    - Financing school improvement investments;               48,140            0      48,140
1.5    - Financing the rehabilitation of school physical facilities.  15,500       0      15,500
Subtotal                                                  87,140            0      87,140
2.     Establishing a School Development Process
2.1    - Desinging and Supporting School Development Plans;        2,050           0       2,050
2.2    - Financing School Subprojects.                             3,110           0       3,110
Subtotal                                                    5,160           0       5,160
3.     Planning and Providing Additional School Places
3.1    - Carrying out School Microplanning and Architectural Plans  4,000          0       4,000
3.2    - Testing Standard Architectural Plans                       200            0         200
Subtotal                                                   4,200            0       4,200
4.     Strengthening Education Management and Project Administration
4.1    - Building management capacity in schools, municip. and states;  800    4,000       4,800
4.2    - Carrying out of specialized training and learning improvement  635        0         635
programs;
4.3    - Fostering community participation;                        4,000           0       4,000
4.4    - Strengthening national education information systems/programs;  6,000  1,000      7,000
4.5    - Financing Project management activities.                  7,000         400       7,400
Subtotal                                                  18,435        5,400      23,835
Total                                                    114,935        5,400     120,335
Total Baseline Cost
Phisical Contingencies                                    2,629         540       3,169
Price Contingencies                                       1,337         159        1,496
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                       118,901        6,099     125,000
51



I



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                          Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Annex 4
FUNDESCOLA I
Economic Analysis
Part I: Project Context and Description
Primary education projects usually have as their greatest benefit the increase in
wages associated with higher levels of academic achievement, resulting from higher
enrollment levels. In Brazil, this is important, but it is not the main issue. High repetition
rates have clogged up the flow of students to the extent that both academic achievement and
per student costs depend primarily on increasing promotion rates. The high cost of primary
education is related to the fact that 19.26 years of enrollment are necessary to produce one
eighth grade graduate,' instead of the eight that would be necessary if the flow of students
were perfect. Low educational achievement has been shown by many researchers to be a
consequence of multiple repetition and the ensuing high drop-out rate.2
While repetition, promotion, and drop-out rates figure neither in FUNDESCOLA'S
program goals nor in its components because they are neither objectives in themselves nor
instruments to achieve them, they are the key indicators that must permeate any economic
analysis of its chances of success or failure.
Another important issue is the relation between the project to be financed by
FUNDESCOLA I and the FUNDESCOLA program to be financed by a subsequent loan. While
this analysis applies to the project, and will not be affected if for some reason the second
loan is never approved, the actions and effects quantified are continued and improved in the
next stages of the program.
Tlhe remainder of this analysis is divided into three parts. Part II describes the exact
methodology to be used and its relation with project design; Part III describes the
construction of the flow model and the estimation of the fundamental parameters; and Part
IV shows the results of various scenarios.
Part II. Project Goals, Project Components, and Economic Analysis Methodology
Any economic analysis must start with the project it is designed to analyze, its
goals, and the instruments to achieve them. As described in the program design summary
(see Annex 1), FUNDESCOLA I 's program goals are the following:
IIn the North, the number is 31.55 and in the Center-West 19.97. The figures refer to the 1996 educational
census. This does not mean that the average eighth grade graduate takes nineteen years to finish school, as
enrollment years applying to those who drop out before eighth grade are also counted.
2Paes de Barros and Mendonca, "O Fluxo Educacional no Brasir' 1996 IPEA; "Gomes Netto, Fluxo de
Alunos, Matriculas e Alguns Indicadores Educacionais no Nordeste Brasileiro" 1992 INEP; Schiefelbein and
Heikkinen "Brazil: Access, Repetition and Efficiency in Primary School." 1992 Mimeo.
53



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                          Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Table 4-1.FUNDESCOLA I Program Goals
Goal                                                   Region    From       To
Increasing net enrollment                                 NO          90%        95%
NE          95%      100%
CW          83%        88%
Increasing the ratio between 8t' grade graduates          NO          12%        20%
and I" grade enrollment                                   NE          13%        20%
CW          26%       30%
Increasing the proportion of 4t graders achieving  Math   NO          55%        65%
elementary levels in mathematics by 10% and in            NE          52%        62%
Portuguese by 8%                                          CW          60%        70%
Portuguese     NO          59%        67%
NE         58%        66%
CW          62%       70%
While each of these goals can be easily measured in iheir own terms, the first two
are not direct results of project components. Rather, they are the result of processes which
can also be measured, which are the result of project components. The effect on student
achievement in standardized tests, while measurable and very important, is not predicable
due to the lack of matching data on inputs and tests scores. Iests scores for the 1997 testing
round will provide this data, but they are not yet available.
The impact and measurability of each component vaiies. Component (d) cannot be
quantified. Rather, it must be thought of as creating the environment that will allow the
other components to be applied. Furthermore, this componerLt will help secretariats to better
manage their school system as a whole, including secondary schooling and, for the state
secretariats, other microregions. It will therefore have large externalities with relation to
this project. Component (c) will have no quantifiable effect umtil the schools it helps to plan
are built, which will happen only in the second project. Because this analysis takes into
consideration only the first project, component (c) will be considered "lost money": it will
be included as a cost of the project, but no benefits will be assigned to it. Components
(a) and (b) have immediate impact on the intermediate measures because they are direct
inputs of the educational process. The table below summarizes which components directly
affect the program goals as inputs.
Table 4-2. Program Goals, Intermediate Measures, and Components
Goal                                     Intermediate measures    Component
Increasing net enrollment                0  Access to school places  Provision (c)
0  School flux           MOS + PDE (a) & (b)
Increasing the ratio between eighth grade  0  School flux         MOS + PDE (a) & (b)
graduates and first grade enrollment
Increasing the proportion of fourth graders  None                 MOS + PDE (a) & (b)
achieving elementary levels in mathematics by
10% and in Portuguese by 8%
54



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                              Annex 4
Economic Analysis
The table shows that MOS and PDE work together to make schools perform better.
While improving material conditions brings about some small improvement in school
performance, it is overwhelmed by the improvement brought about by better management
resulting from a successful PDE. The existence of minimum operational standards, however,
is a necessary condition for successful implementation of a PDE.
As will be shown below, the two fundamental variables are the number of schools
choosing to undertake PDE and the average impact of sDPs on promotion rates. The average
impact of SDPS will be estimated using a sample of schools in Rondon6polis in Mato
Grosso, where the FUNDESCOLA methodology was used with great success. Rondon6polis
results - a 6 percent increase in promotion at the end of the first year and a 20 percent
increase at the end of the second year - will be taken as an ideal case scenario; middle and
worst case scenarios will be lower percentages.
The percentage of schools implementing SDPs depends on variables beyond the
project's control, such as leadership, but also to a large extent on MOS, which place more
schools in the "PDE basin." Thus, MOS are important in increasing the proportion of schools
capable of undertaking a PDE.
The cost-benefit analysis of FUNDESCOLA will be undertaken in the following
manner:
a) a flow model will be estimated for each participating microregion;
b) a historical trend will be applied to project how the flow of students would look without
the project;
c) the impact of the project on this flow will be estimated using the two key variables
described above;
d) the difference between the two flows will be taken;
e) given this difference, the savings in enrollment and increases in academic achievement
will be calculated;
f) these savings and increases will be converted into two monetary flows using per student
cost and private rate of return to education; and finally
g) the internal rates of return for each of the two flows will be calculated using various
time horizons.
Part III: Estimation of Parameters
Before actually calculating the income flows and internal rates of return, the basic
parameters must be estimated. We will divide this into three sections: parameters for
calculating student flows, parameters for calculating per student costs, and individual
educational rates of return.
55



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                          Annex 4
Economic Analysis
i. Student Flow - The first component necessary to estimale the project's impact is a flow
model with the appropriate parameters and their historical trend.
Making accurate flow models is relatively easy given progression, repetition, and
drop-out rates. Unfortunately, the estimation of these rates is extremely difficult. Apart
from the fact that the educational census is known to have a relatively high error rate, the
categories "drop-out " and "failed student" as reported in the census are themselves
misleading. When filling in the forms on student achievement, teachers consider as "failed"
a student who stays in school until the last day but is not allowed to go on to the next grade
level, and "drop-out " a student who does not stay in school until the last day. However, it
is a widespread practice for teachers to encourage students to leave school and return next
year to the same grade level, if they consider the students have little chance of passing; in
some cases, the students themselves take this initiative. Thus, most of the drop-out rate is
actually a veiled repetition rate.
Several researchers3 have created flow models using' a plethora of auxiliary
information, from chain-linked educational census data to household surveys, to estimate
the true repetition and drop-out rates. Unfortunately, these estimates vary considerably as to
the percentage of official drop-out rate that is actually veiled repetition, but they do all
agree on one issue - this percentage is relatively stable over time and across regions. In
other words, once the "repetition compensation" is estimated, the school flow may be
accurately estimated using promotion and retention rates, which are subject to much less
systematic error. A diagram of the basic flow model used by all is shown below:
Drop-outs having completed grade N
l-e 
Promotion
a                            To grade N+1l, year t+l
Enrollnent
grde N, year t
I-a                         Drop-outs having completed grade N-I
I -r
Retention
r
To grade N, year t+1
The rates of promotion, repetition given retention, aind progression given promotion
(p, r, and e) determine the flow. Promotion rates can be estimated directly by using the ratio
of students approved to initial enrollment. While this does not take into consideration
transfers between schools, it is quite accurate on an aggregated level.
3 Paes de Barros and Mendonca, "O Fluxo Educacional no Brasil" 1996 IPEA; "Gomes Netto, Fluxo de
Alunos, Matriculas e Alguns Indicadores Educacionais no Nordeste Brmsileiro" 1992 INEP; Schiefelbein and
Heikkinen "Brazil: Access, Repetition and Efficiency in Primary School." 1992 Mimeo; and
Klein and Costa Ribeiro "O censo educacional e o modelo de fluxo: 0 problema da repetencia" in Revista
Brasileira de Estatistica 52 (197/198) pp. 5-45 1995.
56



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                             Annex 4
Economic Analysis
As r and e vary according to the methodology used, a choice was imposed. We
chose to use the two whose assumptions on student behavior are least strict and whose
calculations are most up to date: Barros and Mendonca and Schiefelbein. The estimates
converge at around fourth grade but are quite different for first, second, and third grades.
For these grade levels, we took the average and rounded. The coefficients finally arrived at
are shown in table 4.3.
Table 4-3. r and e
Grade         r                e
Is!          0.88             0.98
2        ~~0.85  -~0.96 
3ru     _ _ 0.88   _  _ 0.96
4    ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ 093_
-        0.80             0.96
5.(  X         g               0.96
7=_       _  090               0.96
0.90             0.96
Source: Barros and Mendonga (1996) and Gomes Neto (1992)
Given the above coefficients and promotion rates, flow models were set up for all
ten microregions, in order to model future effects in enrollment and final achievement (in
terms of grade level) due to changes in these rates.
The next issue to consider is the trend on promotion rates. Barros and Mendonca
(1996) have calculated a reasonable time series for first to fifth grades showing that these
rates have been stable or even decreasing up to 1988, but that since then they have begun a
slow but steady climb. This happens at about the same time as the change of mentality from
quantity to quality in the principal regions of the country.
Table 4-4. Evolution of Promotion Rates by Grade Level
Year    I st grade    2nd grade    3rd grade    4th grade   5th grade
1981          41           66          70            71         56
1982          39           63          67            66         52
1983          40           63          66            66         51
1984          43           61          66            64        49
1985          47           60          66            66        51
1986          47           58          65            64         48
1987          49           58          65            66         50
1988          48           58          65            66         51
1989          50           60          67            68         51
1990          54           61          67            68         51
1991          54           61          69            70         53
1992          53           61          68            71         55
1993          52           62          69            72         57
Source: Barros and Mendonca (1996)
57



School lmprovement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                 Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Regressing promotion on time from 1988 to 1993 yields the following coefficients,
all significant at a 5 percent level: 0.92 percent, 0.63 percent, 0.65 percent, 1.12 percent,
and 1.12 percent for first, second, third, fourth, and fifth gracdes respectively. We will
assume that this rate of improvement will continue over the next ten or fifteen years. This
assumption is somewhat optimistic, but not unrealistic given the positive changes that have
been occurring in education. We will also suppose that sixth through eighth grades will
improve at the average of first through fifth: 0.8 percent per year.
ii. Per Student Cost - To convert changes in flow into savings or costs in Reais (R$), an
estimate of each student's marginal cost is necessary. Unfortunately, there are few data on
student cost, marginal or otherwise, available. The only data available are expenditures on
the budget item Education and Culture. One option would be to run a regression on
municipal expenditures as compared with enrollment to estimate marginal expenditure and
then equate it to marginal cost. This would have the disadvanitage of confusing the concepts
of cost and expenditure, but would at least allow a rough estimate. Starting January 1, 1998,
however, educational expenditures will change drastically as the National School
Maintenance and Teacher Valorization Program (FVM - Fundo de Valorizacao do
Magist6rio) will come into effect. The fund will not be the only source of income for basic
education; there are also voluntary transfers and the educatioin tax. Nonetheless, it will
account for at least 75 percent of first through eighth grade educational expenditures.
FVM provides formula-driven per student transfers for school systems dictating per
capita expenditures that are the same in all systems - municipal or state - within a state.
This expenditure is subject to two minima:
(a) 15 percent of pooled state and municipal revenues spent on basic education and
(b) R$315 per student per year.
If 15 percent of own tax and transfer revenues do nol: amount to R$3 15 per year, the
federal government will complement the fund up to that amount. In a sense, the marginal
cost of an additional student is, by fund definition, equal to average cost. In other words,
each additional student will cost (the federal government) R$3 15.
However, of the FUNDESCOLA I states, only Para will receive federal
complementation. In all others, 15 percent of revenues will atnount to more than R$3 15 per
student. In this case, increasing enrollment becomes a 'beggar thy neighbor' policy for any
given school system within a state: each additional student will reduce the per capita for all
while bringing in an additional revenue to the school system in which the student is
enrolled4. If we consider the sum of states and municipalities, each additional student will
bring, by definition, zero marginal revenue; if cost is equated to revenue, it will have zero
marginal cost. This reasoning is patently absurd.
4 This is a possible benefit of the FVM, because school systems may begin to compete for students.
58



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                            Annex 4
Economic Analysis
How then do we estimate benefits incurred by reducing repetition? Two alternatives
are possible.
a) The first is to look from a strictly public finance point of view -  savings in
enrollment will generate savings in expenditures in Para, but the two will have
no relation anywhere else.
b) The second is to consider that a student is "worth" his FVM per capita value and
that savings in enrollment will generate increases in per student expenditures
that will translate into better paid teachers, better educational inputs, and greater
quality of education.
We will calculate both alternatives and their respective internal rates of return.
In both cases, to estimate savings or cost streams generated by straightening out the
flow of students, the value of the fund must be projected into the future. The fund is made
up of 15 percent of the sum of own VAT tax collection and federal government
constitutional transfers.5 While predicting future VAT collection is difficult, particularly
considering the volatile growth rates of the Northern and Center-Western economies, their
4.2 percent average growth rate from 1990 to 1996 can probably be used as a reasonable
pTojection.6 Federal constitutional transfers can be expected to grow at the roughly the same
rate as the Brazilian economy, which was 2.7 percent from 1990 to 1996.
The best procedure is to suppose that the FVM will increase in each state at the
weighted average of the Brazilian economy's 2.7 percent growth rate and that of the
Northern and Center-Western economies: 4.2 percent, where the weights are given by the
fund's composition in each state. Finally, the population under age seventeen is growing at
a rate somewhat less than 1.4 percent, which will be subtracted from the fund's weighted
growth rate to yield per capita growth rates. The FVM values in 1996, composition in terms
of federal transfers and VAT, and growth rate projections are shown below.
5These transfers amount to 6.75 percent of the income and industrial products tax collection in the entire
country, distributed in proportion to population and in inverse proportion to income.
6The FUNDESCOLA I states had strong economic performances from 1990 to 1996. Their average growth rate
was 4.2 percent, compared to 2.7 percent for the Brazilian economy as a whole. Of the seven best performing
state economies from 1990 to 1996, no less than six - Tocantins, Acre, Mato Grosso do Sul, Rond6nia,
Amapa, and Goias - are in the project area. However, the third worst - Amazonas - is also a FUNDESCOLA
I state. Both the North and the Center-West are new economies in rapid transition and their future is very hard
to predict.
59



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                             Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Table 4-5. Fvm Predicted Growth Rate
State                      1996per       Composition      Weighted   Per capita
capita    Federal   VAT Tax    Growth     Growth
Value   Transfers Collection    Rate       Rate
Rond6nia                      R$329       57%       43%       3,35%       1.95%
Acre                          R$518       82%       18%       2,98%       1.58%
Amazonas                      R$472       29%       71%       3,77%      2.37%
Roraima                       R$747       70%       30%       3,15%       1.75%
Para                          R$315       66%       34%       3,21%       1.81%
Amapa                         R$577       74%       26%       3,10%       1.70%
Tocantins                     R$320       80%       20%       3,00%      1.60%
Mato Grosso do Sul            R$346       49%       51%       3,47%      2,07%
Mato Grosso                   R$391       48%       52%       3,48%      2,08%
Goias                         R$322       49%       51%       3,46%      2,06%
Sources: 1996 FUNDEF: FNDE; FVM composition: FNDE; regional growdt rates: IPEA/DIPES; population growth:
IBGE.
The only issue remaining to be resolved is whether students in different grade levels
have different marginal costs. Adding students to empty classrooms is very cheap because
no new teachers or construction is necessary, but adding stuidents to overcrowded systems
will be quite expensive. Straightening out the flow will add students in fifth to eighth
grades and reduce enrollment in first to fourth. This is financially more rewarding if first to
fourth students cost more, but is less rewarding if fifth to eighth students cost more. To
investigate this, the student-classroom ratio was calculated for all microregions for both
first to fourth and fifth to eighth students.
Table 4-6. Students per Classroom
Microregion       Students / Classroom       D
is to 4   5 'Cto 8
Porto Velho             30,83      32,54   1,71
Rio Branco              28,17      32,29   4,12
Manaus                  33,79      41,40   7,62
Boa Vista               27,18      30,51   3,33
Belem                   33,05      41,10   8,04
Macapa                 27,57       34,43   6,86
Porto Nacional          29,17      31,27   2,11
Campo Grande            27,16      32,72   5,56
Cuiaba                 29,87       34,36   4,50
Goiania                 32,29      41,11   8,82
Source: 1996 Educational Census Microdata.
Table 4.7 shows that in all cases fifth to eighth grade classrooms are more crowded,
but that the difference is always less than ten. According to federal norms, fifth to eighth
grade classrooms are expected to have on average ten students less than first through fourth
60



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                           Annex 4
Economic Analysis
grade.7 This means that we can suppose that the marginal cost of adding students in higher
grade levels will be equivalent to marginal savings of reducing enrollment in lower grade
levels.
The final procedure used to calculate savings was the following:
a) enrollment streams for each grade level with and without the project were
calculated and their differences taken;
b) marginal costs for grade levels first through fourth and fifth through eighth were
estimated;
c) FVM values were projected as explained above; and
d) a "strictly public finance" income stream taking into account only Para was
generated and a "quantity = quality" income stream taking into account savings in
all states was also generated.
iii. Rates of Return - Estimation of Coefficents
Given good household surveys, rates of return to education are simple to estimate.
Brazil is fortunate to have the PNADs (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem de Domicilios)
that are yearly household surveys with extensive coverage - the sample size for 1995 is
334,263 people, 51,525 of them in the North and Center-West - and accurate to the state
level. We estimated rates of return to education using the standard mincerian earnings
equation: log Y = S di + Age + Age 2,
where Y is the hours-adjusted wage received the week before8 and di is a dummy
representing whether the person has completed the i-th year of schooling9 so that a person
having completed fourth grade will have: d, = d2 = d3 = d4 = 1 and d5 = d6 ... d12 = 0-
The equation was estimated only for those of working age (sixteen to sixty-five
years), receiving non-zero income the week before, not employed in agriculture or by any
level of government, working at least twenty hours in that week, and knowing their
educational level. This creates an obvious selection bias in the equation, so the equation
was estimated with a Heckman correction term. 0 The ideal procedure would have been to
estimate the wage equation separately for men and women but since the educational census
does not provide gender information, this is not very useful.
7Federal council of education norms state that for first to fourth grades, the desirable number of students per
classroom is from twenty-five to thirty students; for fifth to eighth from thirty-five to forty.
8 An education age interaction term was also used, but it never proved significantly different from zero for
educational levels inferior to high school.
9In previous PNADs, such as the 1981-90 series, it was impossible to determine highest grade level
completed; years spent in school had to be used as a proxy. In the 1992, 1993, and 1995 PNADs the actual
highest grade level completed is determined.
'0 A Probit for predicting the probability of being included in the sample was run with the education and age
variables, in addition to two dummies: "head of household" and "male." The resulting inverse Mills ratio was
then substituted into the wage equation as an independent variable. This procedure provides unbiased but
inefficient coefficient estimates. The sample size was too big for full maximum likelihood estimation.
61



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                     Annex 4
Economic Analysis
The equation was estimated separately Brazil as a whole, the North, and the Center-
West. The North region presents a problem because the PNAD does not cover its rural area,
making interregional comparisons not too meaningful, but since those employed in
agriculture are excluded, this is not too grievous an oversight. Finally, the coefficients di
can be read directly as the marginal log rates of return on the i-th grade level. The
coefficients for Brazil, the North, and the Center-West are shown below, together with their
respective estimated errors, for the wage equation estimated both with and without the
Heckman correction.
Table 4-7. Marginal Rates of Return - Without Heckman Correctibn
Variable                 Coefficients
Brazil       North     Center-West
dl                  0.183        0.027        0.146
d2                  0.188        0.056        0.184
d3                  0.110        0.159       -0.003
d4                  0.233        0.132        0.125
d5                  0.070        0.029        0.096
d6                 0.129         0.050        0.026
d7                 0.037         0.075        0.076
d8                 0.152         0.052        0.100
dplus              0.410         0.428        0.532
age                0.107         0.109        0.103
age2              -0.001        -0.001       -0.001
cons               2.433         2.785        2.837
Source: PNAD 1995 microdata (rates of return on above 8' education
were aggregated into the dplus dummy)
Table 4-8. Marginal Rates of Return - With Heckman Correction
Variable                 Coefficients
Brazil      North     Center-West
d1                 0.181         0.032        0.090
d2                 0.179         0.016        0.107
d3                 0.100         0.120       -0.045
d4                 0.221         0.115        0.079
d5                 0.049         0.021        0.053
d6                  0.116        0.023       -0.027
d7                  0.029        0.058        0.028
d8                  0.162        0.020        0.039
dplus               0.416        0.386        0.401
age                 0.047        0.079        0.070
age2               0.000        -0.001        -0.001
invmils           -0.158        -0.268       -0.367
cons              3.791         4.956        5.881
Source: PNAD 1995 microdata (rates of return on above 8m education
were aggregated into the dplus dummy)
The presence of negative coefficients for some years in Center-West is due to an
incomplete specification of the model. These are regions of high migration and the decision
to migrate is independent neither of education nor of income; a model taking migration into
62



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 4
Economic Analysis
account would be far too complicated for the purposes of this analysis. We will thus
consider all negative rates of return to be zero.
It is interesting to note that while the Heckman correction has little effect on rates of
return in Brazil as a whole, in the Northern and Center-Western rates are considerably
lowered. Once again this is probably due to migration and its effects.
One last issue to considered is how to impute earnings to those who, either by
choice or circumstance, are out of the workforce. In particular, many female graduates
never join the workforce, either choosing or being forced to be full-time mothers and
housewives. Unfortunately, economic theory gives us little choice but to suppose that if
they have made this choice (or if it has been made for them), the rewards are at least as
desirable as receiving a market wage. Thus, we will attribute to all graduates the rate of
return estimated in our equations.
Once in possession of the coefficients, there are two ways to proceed: (a) one is to
calculate the net present value of the expected income streams, given some expected
retirement age; (b) the other is to calculate the stream itself and then calculate internal rates
of return over various time periods.
While conceptually better in principle, the first method has three drawbacks. First,
in Brazil, retirement age is a difficult concept to pin down. While the law stipulates that in
the formal labor market, men will retire after thirty-five years of contribution time and
women after thirty, most retirees do not become inactive after this period but go on to
accumulate pensions and another job, often in the same firm as before. This retirement
system is patently unsustainable and will be changed far before today's graduates retire, but
nobody knows in which direction this change will be. Second, thirty or thirty-five years is
such a long time that any previsions relating incomes towards the end of this period are not
much better than astrology. Finally, one of the main benefits of the project is to unclog the
educational system by straightening out the flow of students. The effects of this thirty or
thirty-five years down the line are so dependent on migration and other demographics so as
to be almost impossible to estimate. In order to compare the two project benefits, the net
present value until retirement is not a very good method.
On the other hand, calculating income streams for the next ten or fifteen years is
much more trustworthy and easier to do. The procedure used was the following.
a) The number of students leaving school at a certain grade level were estimated with
and without the project.
b) The difference of the two estimates was found year by year.
c) The rate of return with relation to no schooling (the sum of marginal rates of return
shown above) was applied to all those leaving school after a given grade level, the
wage of a sixteen-year old with no schooling being used as the base.
d) Each successive year of experience adds about R$4 to wages, but this does not
63



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                           Annex 4
Economic Analysis
vary according to educational level before the end of high school" so the net effect
with or without the project is zero.
e) The difference in income streams is calculated by adding every year each
additional cohort of school leavers to the wages cf those already working.
f) No allowance was made for those continuing further studies. This strongly
underestimates project rates of return as individual rates of return on high school
are positive and high, but there is no way to remedy this because we have neither a
reasonable flow model for high school and college nor a time series of progression
and retention trends.
Part IV: Income Flows, Internal Rates of Return, and Sensitivity Analysis
With all assumptions and estimations clear, the income flows until 2012, fifteen
years after project onset, are shown in pages fourteen to sixteen together with internal rates
of return for five to ten and fifteen years of project life.
In order to do sensitivity analysis we identified the two fundamental variables that
deternine project success: the percentage of schools choosing to undertake school
development plans and the average effectiveness of these plans, once undertaken. We chose
four scenarios to analyze:
Table 4-9. Scenarios
Scenario        Percent of schools     Average effectiveness
participating  1' Year Increase 2n" Year Increase
in Promotion    in Prcmotion
Worst                      13%            2.4%              8%
Middle Poor                25%              3%             10%
Middle Good                50%              3%             10%
Best                       75%              4%           13.2%
To have an idea of what the numbers mean, the 13 percent coverage of the worst
case mean that only the 311 pilot schools to be directly fimanced in 1998 will undertake
SDPs. Those responsible for the SDPs have stated that they will feel personally failed if SDP
results are below two thirds of Rondon6polis' success, which is our best case scenario.
The IRR results are as follows:
' The age-grade level interaction terms before high school completion are not significantly different from
zero; in other words, in the first through twelfth grades, education and experience are neither complements
nor substitutes.
64



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                        Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Table 4-10. Internal Rates of Return
Scenario                                    Worst    Middle Poor   Middle        Best
Good
Social IRR after 10 years                   1.01 %      12.54 %     24.26 %    39.37 %
Social IRR after 15 years                   9.26%       19.08 %     29.23 %    42.66 %
Quantity Quality IRR after 10 years            -           -         -6.35%     2.59%
Quantity Quality IRR after 15 years            -         -2.07%      4.15%     11.46%
Although from a strictly public finance point of view the project never pays for
itself, if the savings in quantity becoming quality argument is accepted, the project pays for
itself, even under a not too optimistic scenario. More impressive is the fact that even under
the most unfortunate and bleak of scenarios, the social rate of return after fifteen years is
only slightly below satisfactory.
The reasons for these impressive results is dismal state of the flow of students in
Northern and Center-Western schools. High repetition rates make each student cost from
twice to three times what he might under a perfect flow; by discouraging students,
repetition drastically reduces their academic achievement. The consequence is that even
small increases in promotion rates can have large effects.
One final comment worth making is how the project fares in terms of its goals under
each scenario. The information to predict the goal relating to standardized testing is not
available; predictions on net enrollment rates depend heavily on demographic projections
and new construction, but the ratio of first grade enrollment to eighth grade graduation can
be calculated under each scenario.
Table 4-11. Ratio of first grade enrollment to eighth grade graduation
Scenario                 Worst    Middle    Middle       Best       Project Objectives
Project Time                        Poor      Good                 No/NE       CW
5 years                  39%        41%        45%       54%        20%       30%
10 years                 41%        44%       48%        58%       20%        30%
15 years                 46%        48%       51%        58%       20%        30%
Once again, even under the worst of scenarios, the project achieves its objectives in
five years time. Finally, the rates of return probably underestimate the true returns on the
FUNDESCOLA I project.
a) The fact that no allowance for the effects on secondary schooling means a cost is
not counted but even larger social benefits are not counted.
b) The spillover effect of improvements in school system management on schools not
undertaking snPs and, for the state system, on schools outside the capital
microregion, are not counted.
c) The resources to be spent on preparing provision of school places are counted as
65



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                  Annex 4
Economic Analysis
lost money, because this analysis focuses on the project, and not on the program.
d) The Heckman correction considerably lowered rates of return. This attenuation is
probably overestimnated due to interactions between migration and labor force
participation decisions.
66



Annex 4
Project Cost and Benefit Streams and Internal Rates of Return Under Different Scenarios
(2)      (3) = (2) - (1)  (4)        (5) = (4) - (1)   (6)      (7) = (5) + (6)   (8)
Federal Savings  Govemment   Quality Effect  Income Stream           Social Income    1 st enroll -
Project Costs   (PA only)   Income Stream   (all States)    with Quailty   Social Benefits    Stream  8th grad ratio
1997    110,464,000           0   -110,464,000            0   -110,464,000      361,369  -110,102,631         30%
1998     14,536,000        4,535   -14,540,535       16,064    -14,519,936     4,320,740   -10,199,196        35%
1999             0        49,161       -49,161      377,110        377,110    17,723,227    18,100,337        43%
2000             0        94,776       -94,776     2,279,202     2,279,202    35,805,442    38,084,643        50%
2001             0       -119,999      119,999     5,786,769     5,786,769    57,421,750    63,208,519        54%
2002             0       -729,248      729,248    10,634,524    10,634,524    80,245,819    90,880,343        55%
2003             0     -1,489,615    1,489,615    16,187,034    16,187,034   101,406,289   117,593,323        56%
2004             0     -2,155,598    2,155,598    21,303,411    21,303,411    121,733,626   143,037,036       56%
2005             0     -2,860,838    2,860,838    26,208,948    26,208,948   143,319,549   169,528,497        57%
2006             0     -3,814,933    3,814,933    31,732,159    31,732,159   165,968,717   197,700,876        58%
2007             0     -5,084,979    5,084,979    37,807,129    37,807,129   185,401,472   223,208,601        58%
2008             0     -6,381,930    6,381,930    42,762,823    42,762,823   199,855,627   242,618,450        57%
2009             0     -7,422,894    7,422,894    45,914,875    45,914,875   210,473,284   256,388,159        57%
2010             0     -8,129,537    8,129,537    47,681,921    47,681,921    218,975,702   266,657,622       57%
2011             0     -8,568,352    8,568,352    48,750,327    48,750,327   226,259,906   275,010,232        58%
2012             0     -8,840,794    8,840,794    49,454,383    49,454,383   233,144,339   282,598,722        59%
Intemal Rates of Retum after:
5 years                                                               -                           15.27%
6 years                                                                                           24.83%
7 years                                                                                           30.88%
8 years                                                                -6.18%                     34.85%
9 years                                                                -1.22%                     37.54%
10 years                                                                2.590/o                   39.37%
15 years                                                               11.46%                     42.66%
Scenario: Best
75% of schools undertake PDEs
PDEs have 66% of Rondonopolis success
67



Annex 4
Project Cost and Benefit Streams and Internal Rates of Return Under Different Scenarios
(1)          (2)      (3) =(2) - (1)    (4)      (5) = (4) - (1)   (6)       (7) = (5) + (6)   (8)
Federal Savings  Govemment  Quality Effect  Income Stream           Social Income    1st enroll -
Project Costs   (PA only)   Income Stream   (all States)    with Quailty  Social Benefits    Stream  8th grad ratio
1997    110,464,000           0   -110,464,000           0   -110,464,000      273,764  -110,190,236        30%
1998     14,536,000        3,436   -14,539,436       12,170    -14,523,830    2,668,343   -11,855,488       34%
1999             0        28,301       -28,301      235,248       235,248     9,615,526    9,850,774        39%
2000             0        49,298       -49,298     1,237,949     1,237,949    18,792,540    20,030,489       43%
2001             0       -53,947       53,947     2,976,405      2,976,405    29,552,035    32,528,439       45%
2002             0      -330,915      330,915     5,303,514      5,303,514    40,838,180    46,141,694       46%
2003             0       -682,608     682,608     7,923,502      7,923,502    51,554,804    59,478,306       47%
2004             0     -1,007,398    1,007,398    10,429,091    10,429,091    61,884,057    72,313,149       47%
2005             0     -1,335,261    1,335,261    12,889,530    12,889,530    72,415,512    85,305,042       47%
2006             0     -1,747,062    1,747,062    15,455,051    15,455,051    83,299,283    98,754,334       48%
2007             0     -2,288,397    2,288,397    18,204,705    18,204,705    93,392,029   111,596,733       49%
2008             0     -2,895,214    2,895,214    20,705,686    20,705,686   102,290,036   122,995,722      49%
2009             0     -3,458,555    3,458,555    22,877,375    22,877,375   109,378,736   132,256,111       50%
2010             0     -3,906,406    3,906,406    24,435,553    24,435,553   114,598,317   139,033,870       50%
2011             0     -4,225,279    4,225,279    25,211,099    25,211,099   119,503,510   144,714,609       51%
2012             0     -4,439,132    4,439,132    25,850,323    25,850,323   123,139,409   148,989,732       52%
Intemal Rates of Retum after:
5 years                                                              -                           -2.90%
6 years                                                              -                            7.20%
7 years                                                                                          13.95%
8 years                                                              -                           18.60%
9 years                                                              -10.45%                     21.89%
10 years                                                              -6.35%                     24.26%
15 years                                                               4.15%                     29.23%
Scenario: Middle Good
50% of schools undertake POEs
PDEs have 50% of Rondon6polis success
68



Annex 4
Proiect Cnst and Benefit Streams and Internal Rates of Return Under Different Scenarios
(1)          (2)      (3) = (2) - (1)   (4)        (5) = (4) - (1)  (6)       (7) = (5) + (6)   (8)
Federal Savings  Govemment   Quality Effect  Income Stream           Social Income    1st enroll -
Project Costs   (PA only)   Income Stream   (all States)    with Quailty   Social Benefits    Stream  8th grad ratio
1997    110,464,000           0   -110,464,000            0   -110,464,000      273,764  -110,190,236         30%
1998     14,536,000        3,436   -14,539,436       12,170    -14,523,830     2,064,384   -12,459,446        34%
1999             0        19,338       -19,338      185,558        185,558     5,841,441    6,026,999         37%
2000             0        24,796       -24,796      777,027        777,027    10,653,881    11,430,908        40%
2001             0        -35,378       35,378     1,707,178     1,707,178    16,139,106    17,846,284        41%
2002             0       -173,980      173,980     2,890,987     2,890,987    21,716,785    24,607,773        42%
2003             0       -343,450      343,450     4,142,101     4,142,101    27,022,078    31,164,179        42%
2004             0       -502,252      502,252     5,343,430     5,343,430    32,224,302    37,567,732        43%
2005             0       -661,453      661,453     6,592,410     6,592,410    37,454,228    44,046,638        43%
2006             0       -855,664      855,664     7,837,850     7,837,850    42,697,170    50,535,020        44%
2007             0     -1,105,099    1,105,099     9,088,490     9,088,490    47,556,066    56,644,556        44%
2008             0     -1,389,254    1,389,254    10,208,173    10,208,173    52,480,114    62,688,287        45%
2009             0     -1,665,278    1,665,278    11,492,715    11,492,715    56,675,002    68,167,717        46%
2010             0     -1,898,301    1,898,301    12,570,548    12,570,548    59,447,031    72,017,579        46%
2011             0     -2,075,018    2,075,018    12,947,263    12,947,263    62,674,057    75,621,320        48%
2012             0     -2,200,097    2,200,097    13,422,845    13,422,845    64,378,024    77,800,869        48%
Intemal Rates of Retum after:
5 years                                                               -                          -16.42%
6 years                                                               -                            -6.21%
7 years                                                               -                            0.91%
8 years                                                               -                            6.02%
9 years                                                               -                            9.76%
10 years                                                              -                           12.54%
15 years                                                               -2.07%                     19.08%
Scenario: Middle Poor
25% of schools undertake PDEs
PDEs have 50% of Rondon6polis success
69



Annex 4
Project Cost and Benefit Streams and Internal Rates of Return Under Different Scenarios
(1)          (2)       (3) = (2) - (1)   (4)       (5) = (4) - (1)   (6)       (7) = (5) + (6)   (8)
Federal Savings  Govemment   Quality Effect  Income Stream            Social Income    1st enroll -
Project Costs   (PA only)   Income Stream   (all States)  with Quailty   Social Benefits    Stream  8th grad ratio
1997    110,464,000            0   -110,464,000           0    -110,464,000      219,011  -110,244,989         30%
1998     14,536,000        2,749   -14,538,749         9,736    -14,526,264     1,418,696   -13,107,568        33%
1999             0        10,331       -10,331       127,699        127,699     3,254,094     3,381,792        36%
2000             0         5,540         -5,540      451,463        451,463     5,531,181     5,982,644        38%
2001             0        -20,599       20,599       931,695        931,695     8,058,907     8,990,602        39%
2002             0        -60,750       60,750      1,519,715     1,519,715    10,514,029    12,033,744        40%
2003             0       -100,894      100,894     2,086,754      2,086,754    12,835,251    14,922,004        40%
2004             0       -136,850      136,850     2,627,616      2,627,616    15,148,156    17,775,772        40%
2005             0       -173,709      173,709     3,230,733      3,230,733    17,401,469    20,632,202        41%
2006             0       -219,228      219,228     3,775,387      3,775,387    19,513,096    23,288,483        41%
2007             0       -274,864      274,864     4,248,638      4,248,638    21,328,887    25,577,525        42%
2008             0       -334,860      334,860     4,602,155      4,602,155    23,646,492    28,248,647        43%
2009             0       -391,255      391,255     5,264,872      5,264,872    25,758,114    31,022,987        43%
2010             0       -438,450      438,450     5,905,849      5,905,849    26,793,444    32,699,293        44%
2011             0       -474,653      474,653     5,949,336      5,949,336    28,833,365    34,782,701        46%
2012             0       -500,961      500,961     6,270,049      6,270,049    29,249,346    35,519,396        46%
Intemal Rates of Retum after:
5 years
6 years                                                                                           -19.24%
7 years                                                                                           -11.82%
8 years                                                                                            -6.30%
9 years                                                                                            -2.14%
10 years                                                                                            1.01%
15 years                                                                                            9.26%
Scenario: Worst
13% of schools undertake PDEs
PDEs have 40% of Rondon6polis success
70



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                          Annex 5
Financial Summary
Annex 5
FUNDESCOLA I
Financial Summary
Overview. In the 1990s Brazil has experienced a period of profound social, political and
financial change, opening new and promising opportunities for development. Projected
GDP per capita for 1998 is US$4,970, one of the highest in Latin America. However the
distribution of income, as reported in the World Bank's 1996 Development Report, remains
one of the most unequal in the world. Overcoming the difficulties posed by this unequal
distribution of wealth as well as the low average level of education (5.5 years for men, 5.7
years for women) will be one of Brazil's greatest challenges in the coming decade.
A successful program for monetary stabilization initiated under the Real plan in 1994
brought remarkable results, reducing inflation from near crippling rates of 50% per month
to 7% per year. This adjustment, while introducing stability to a previously uncertain
economy, imposed drastic budgetary restrictions on the public sector. No longer able to use
inflation to deal with the deficit, the public sector has resorted to borrowing, raising the
federal debt from 9.2% to nearly 18% of GDP. State and municipal debt has nearly
doubled from 3.5% to 6.4%. Since most of this debt is held by the Federal Government,
total public sector debt is just under 20%. This debt, however, remains considerably lower
than that of most developing countries or developed countries.
Table 5.1 Government Debt and GDP
(R$ millions)
Year   (a)         (b)        (c)    (d)=(c     (e)   (f)=(c)/(e) (g)=(d)/(e)1(h)=(a)/(e)
)+(b)l
State and Municipal Debt'  Total   Public             In Percentage of GDP
Total    Outside the  Federal  Sector   GDP3      Total    Public  Total State
Central Bank  Debt    Debt2              Federal   Sector  and Munic
I_______   ________    Debt     Debt      Debt
1993     1,920        1,920  4,988     6,908    54,247     9.2%    12.7%      3.5%
1994    24,203       6,856 47,470    54,326   545,281      8.7%     10.0%     4.4%
1995    37,581       8,476  82,824    91,300   696,211    11.9%1   13.1%      5.4%
1996    49,906       15,059 140,187   155,246   782,493    17.9%    19.8%     6.4%
'/State and Municipal Debt does not include the State Bank Debt.
2/Public Sector Debt does not include Parastatal debt.
3/GDP is the average of January to December.
The stabilizing effect of these fiscal changes has permitted the government to pay more
attention to a social reform program, with education at the top of the agenda. From
1 France, Belgium, Greece, Italy, Sweden, and the Netherlands all have government debts well over 50% of
GDP.
71



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                          Annex 5
Financial Summary
decentralization of the school lunch program to restructuring of the distribution of
textbooks, the federal government has reformed, reviewed, and renewed its commitment to
education. The reform process, as well as additional presswue from the community, has
resulted in better performance and efficiency in the investmrent of available resources as
measured by ever increasing performance when compared to educational expenditures.
When compared to other countries in Latin America, Brazil's expenditures in education are
quite high (see Table 5.2).
Table 5.2 Comparison: Educational Expenditures in Latin America
Country                    Total Education Expenditures             Year
As % of GNP        As % of Gov't Expenditures
Argentina                           4.5                             15.0      1995
Brazil                              4.5                                       1989
Chile                               2.9                            14.0       1995
Colombia                            3.5                            12.9       1994
Paraguay                            2.9                                       1994
Venezuela                           5 .2                           22.4       1994
Source: UNESCO Statistical Yearbook, 1997
In 1995 public expenditure in education in Brazil totaled US$34.8 billion, representing
4.85% of the GNP. As shown in the table 5.3, Brazilian investment in education is
substantial. When total investments from taxes and other scicial sector contributions are
considered, this total came to nearly 6% of GNP.
Table 5.3 Estimated Education Expenditures in 1995 by Sector
Sector                                           US$ Million        Percentage of GNP
(1995)
Public                                                     34,804                4.85%
Federal Government                                          8,553                1.19%
State Government                                           16,320                2.27%
Municipal Government                                        9,951                1.39%
Private                                                     8,056                1.12%
Families                                                    6,423                0.90%
Non-School business and technical training                  1,633                0.22%
Total                                                      42,860                5.97%
Source: Report on the Evolution of Basic Education in Brazil: 1991-1997, MEC and INEP
The financial implication of FUNDESCOLA 1, when compared to current expenditures in
education or in Brazil as a whole, are decidedly low. The prcject represents approximately
0.1% of the total federal debt and less than 5% of public expenditures on education.
In addition, given the recent shocks in the Brazilian market and the battle to defend the
Real, the further injection of low interest rate World Bank funds into the Brazilian
economy, provide security to ensure future social sector investments.
72



School Improvement Project: FUJNDESCOLA I                                              Annex 5
Financial Summary
Table 5.4 Project Cost and Financing
(US$ Millions)
Implementation Period         Operational Period
1999      2000    - 2001      2001         2002
Project Costs (US$million)
Investment Costs                 17.7      27.7      31.4         24.5            24.5
Recurrent Costs                  24.1      24.1         -
Total                         41.8      51.8       31.4
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                         35%       49%       71%
Government                       65%       51%       29%  D
Total                        100%      100%       100%
73






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                   Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6
FUNDESCOLA I
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.     The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditures categories are summarized in Table A.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsa
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB          Other      N.B.F
1. Goods
Equipment                  6.00                                            6.00
(5.5)                                          (5.5)
Furniture                 24.5                                            24.5
(12.2)                                         (12.2)
2. Civil Works                                 2.5                                 2.5
(0.2)                              (0.2)
3. School Grants                                          62.0a'                  62.0
*                                                        (15.3)                 (15.3)
4. Training and                                           20.3                    20.3
Consultants' Services                                    (20.3)                  (20.3)
5. Administrative                                          3.0                     3.0
Expenses** a                                              (3.0)                   (3.0)
Total                            30.5          2.5        85.3                   118.3
(17.7)       (0.2)      (38.6)                 (56.5)
Notes:    * School Projects, Allotments for Schools to meet Standards, and Yearly Allotments for Schools to
Maintain Standards.
**Administrative Expenses means incremental operational costs related to the management and
supervision of the Project, including maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts for
office equipment and vehicles.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (not applicable).
The detailed procurement arrangements for the item "Other- Consultant Services" are listed in
Annex 6, Table A.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
' local shopping
75



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                         Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procedures
2.    The proposed project will be financed through IBRD and Government funds. All Bank financed
procurement of goods and services under the project will be carried out in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loan and IDA Credits, January 1, 1995, revised
September 1997 and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997, revised September 1997.
3.    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IBRD will be used for goods
contracts that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$ 350,000. NCB procedures
acceptable to IBRD will also be used for civil work contracts above US$350,000 and with a
maximum value of US$ 5.0 million for each contract.
4.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to the IBRD will be used for all
goods grouped into packages by each state secretariat and the Ministry of Education (for the
national program) into contracts of more than US$350,000.
5.    Local Shopping procedures in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines will
be used for works and goods estimated to cost less than US$1)00,000 equivalent per contract. This
project will include two operational initiatives involving small contracts (below US$ 10,000) for
approximately 5,000 schools to school quality investments, including small works, goods, books,
and pedagogical materials. The first of these initiatives is to finance the investments needed by
schools to meet the defined Minimum Operational Standards through school rehabilitation and a
special program that promotes maintenance and development of first through eighth grade
education. These contracts would be procured at the school level and estimated to cost less than
US$ 10,000 per contract, with a total aggregate cost of US$ 65.0 million. The second initiative is
the financing of 311 School Projects/School Development Plans -- estimated to cost less than
US$10,000 per contract, up to a total of US$ 3.1 million.
6.    Selection of Consultants procedures based on Quality and Cosit will be used for all estimated
contracts to cost more than US$200,000. Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications may be
used for services to carry out studies on Architectural Models provided that estimated contract
values do not exceed US$100,000. Consultant services including foreign and local ad hoc expertise
and contractual services - for which individual qualification and experience are the paramount
requirement for the assignment - will be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants
Guidelines.
7.    Procurement Review - details of the Bank prior review for IC13 and NCB process are shown in
Table B.
76



Sclhool Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                  Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Documents
8.     The following documents will guide the procurement activities:
- For ICB : World Bank Standard Bidding Documents.
- For NCB: Standard bidding documents based on Bank's SBD.
- For Consultants: Bank's standards forms of contracts; standard requests for proposals.
- Other documents include: Bank's standard bid evaluation form and standard general and specific
procurement notices.
Measures to improve MEC's procurement capacity
9.     The Central Project Coordination Unit - DGP has experience in procurement management and
Bank procurement procedures. Procurement specialists have been recruited to provide technical
assistance to the DGP in handling all procurement matters related to works, goods, and services,
and will be assisted as needed by specified consultants for the preparation of bidding documents
and bid evaluation. Training of MEC procurement staff, DGP staff and State Education Secretariat
staff in Bank procurement procedures and documents will be carried out. Standard procurement
processing timetables will be finalized at negotiations. Procurement processing will be carried out
according to agreed standard processing times.
Annex 6, Table A: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Contract                         Selection Method                         Total Cost
Category             QCBS             CQ              OTHER               (including
Contingencies)
A. Firms                   10,176.0        1,020.0                                11,196.0
(10,176.0)      (1,020.0)                             (11,196.0)
B. Individual                                                 9,063.0             9,063.0
(9,063.0)           (9,063.0)
Total                     10,176.0         1,020.0            9,063.0             20,259.0
(10,176.0)      (1,020.0)          (9,063.0)           (20,259.0)
Note:         QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection
CQ - Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan
77



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                             Annex 6
Prccurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method              Prior Review
US $ thousands                              US $ thousands
1. Works                >350 and < 5.000            NCE;             First two contracts
< 350           Three Quotations            None
2. Goods                       > 350                 ICB                   All**
>100 and < 350             NCB              First two contracts
< 100              Shopping                 None
3. Services
3.1 Firms                     >200                  QCBS           All *** (including
technical evaluation)
>100 and < 200            QCBS           All *** (except for
technical evaluation)
<100                   CQ            Review of TORs only
3.2 Individual                  > 50                  I                   All***
<50
4. Miscellaneous              < 100               Shopping                  None
Note:  * Civil works contract will use NCB Standard Bidding Documents. The standardization of
architectural models will facilitate prior review by the Bank.
** The standardization of: (a) technical specification for ,goods; (b) place of delivery; and (c)
bidding documents will facilitate prior review by the Bank.
*** The standardization of global TORs and model contract forms will facilitate the prior review
by the Bank.
78



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                           Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement
10.   The applications for Withdrawal must be expressed in the currency of expenditures with the
exception of the requests for payments made out of Special Account, established in US Dollars
equivalent.
I .    In the case of direct school transfers, certification of expenditures will be completed immediately
upon transfer of funds, and disbursements presented on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs). Supervision will be conducted by municipal and state secretaries, COEP, and the Project
Coordination Unitb.
12.   Each Application for Withdrawal will be numbered consecutively regardless of the procedure to be
used.
13.   Applications for Withdrawal will be used to requestthe IBRD for: (i) reimbursement from the Loan
Account; (ii) requests for direct payment to third parties; or (iii) to request replenishment for
expenditures paid with funds from the Special Account for amounts equivalent to 20% of the
Authorized Allocation of the Special Account.
(i)         The Borrower should submit an Application for Withdrawal together with Statement
of Expenditures (SOE) and/or Summary Sheets (SS). When submitting SS, full supporting
documentation is required. The application should be expressed in the currency of the
expenditure.
(ii)        The Borrower should submit form 1903 with supporting documentation as follows:
invoices, receipts, formal bill of sale, copy of checks, or bank orders.
(iii)       The Borrower should submit form 1903 with SOE and/or SS, the Special Account
Reconciliation and bank statement.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
14.   SOEs will be used for payments pertaining to:
- Contracts of less than US$5,000,000 equivalent for civil works and less than US$750,000 for
goods;
- Consultant contracts of less than US$ 100,000 and US$ 50,000 for firms and individuals,
respectively; and
- All other expenditures will be disbursed on the basis of SOEs.
Special Account:
15.   The Special Account will be denominated in US Dollars.
-         Authorized allocation is US$ 12.5 million. The implementation process of the project
requires the simultaneous transfer of financial resources to the schools, which are the final
executors of the project. These resources are associated with the various components. The
b
bThe SPA - Planning and Monitoring System will consolidate the physical and financial actions in each school,
municipality and state.
79



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                  Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
amount of funds in the Special Account will be based upon the value of this transfer, and will
be at least 20% of the loan. The timeframe for certification of these resources will guarantee the
continuity of the subsequent transfers.
-         There will be an initial deposit in a commercial bank of US$ 7.5 million upon
effectiveness, which will increase to US$ 12.5 million once disbursement and commitments
reach US$ 16.0 million.
16.    Direct payment: minimum application amount above 20% of Special Account deposit.
17.    Disbursement categories and percentages financed are shown in Table C below:
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                             Amount in
US$ million       Financing Percentage
1. Goods
(a) Equipment                                     5.5           100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures
(b) Furniture                                    12.2           100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of
local expenditures
2. Civil Works                                           0.2               80% of local
---          expenditures
3. School Grants                                        15.3         25% of the amounts
disbursed by the Borrower
4. Training and Consultants' Services                   20.3               100% of all
expenditures
5. Administrative Expenses                               3.C           100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures
6. Unallocated                                           6.0
TOTAL                                                   62.5
80



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                           Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
18.   The Project will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices
acceptable to the IBRD, as required by "Financial Account Reporting and Auditing Handbook".
19.   An annual audit report of project accounts, and a separate opinion with respect to the Statements of
Expenditures and the Special Account prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the IBRD,
and in accordance with the Bank document, "Financial Account Reporting and Auditing
Handbook", of January 1995, will be submitted to IBRD no more than six months after completion
for each fiscal year.
20.   Project expenditures will be recorded in such a way that all related sources of funds and types of
expenditures are clearly identified. Each implementing agency and the financial agent will supply
financial information on project execution on a quarterly basis to the DGP for consolidation into
annual reports due to the Bank. DGP has established a uniform and consistent financial accounting
and reporting system for the project. COEP will maintain all required information and supporting
documentation for the preparation of the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). DGP will be
responsible for receiving disbursement information and documents from the implementing
agencies; it will aggregate the data and prepare, sign, and submit to the Bank all withdraw
applications regarding expenditures to be financed with the loan proceeds.
81






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                   Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
Annex 7
FUNDESCOLA I
Microregions and Project Phasing
FUNDESCOLA and the context of Municipalization
Proponents of decentralization typically cite a number of benefits for passing
responsibilities from higher to lower levels of government, including greater efficiency,
greater ownership and accountability by beneficiaries and stakeholders, and development of
the capacity of local leaders. However the breath and depth of this process of power transfer
is greatly dependent upon the capacity at the local level. What decentralization is not, and
cannot be, is the direct and immediate transfer of all fiscal and political responsibility to the
local level without regard for the capacity (or will) of the local authorities and benificiaries
to undertake the responsibilities that have previously pertained to higher levels of
government.
In Brazil decentralization in education raises some issues of its own. The existing dual
system, in which both the state and municipal governments are responsible for providing
basic education (grades 1-8), engenders inefficient use of resources (including additional
system managers), inequity in the distribution of school places and school quality, and
provides little incentive for coordination between the systems. Add to these parallel and
uncoordinated systems the federal government, with its supplementary and re-distributive
role, and it is no great surprise to find a jumble of overlapping responsibilities and
information.
With the creation of the Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Education and
Teacher Valorization (FVM) the municipal education secretary will be assured at least
R$315 (in R$1997) per student, adjusted annually and starting in 1998, with shortfalls
provided on a targeted regional basis by federal funds. The greatest benefit of the FVM, in
addition to its re-distributive nature, is the creation of a council at the municipal level to
monitor the transparent and effective disbursement of educational expenditures.
Municipalities and Project Coordination
Given these sector changes, as well as the particular requirements of the dual system, a
number of alternatives for project coordination were considered. The broad organizational
options included direct (where the project management has a direct relationship with each
municipality), indirect (where the project management interacts only with the state
secretariat which in turn coordinate activities with municipalities) and integrated (where the
project management interacts with the school and system managers responsible for schools
within a given geographical area).
In assessing the possibilities for direct coordination with the municipalities, a number of
human resource, technical, and operational characteristics of the municipalities were
considered. In a pre-investment study of the existing human resource capacity of municipal
management in the North and Center-West capital city municipalities (80 in total), 30% of
83



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
mayors had not completed secondary education. The education of the municipal secretaries
is significantly higher: nearly two thirds had completed tertiary education. In terms of
technical resources, only 40% of municipal secretariats operated out of their own building,
and less than 25% possessed a fax machine. Procurement and contracting, as well as other
operational requirements in the education sector, are similarly complicated: many
municipal secretaries are unfamiliar with current legislation and requirements for primary
education, as well as the most basic tools involved in the preparation of a teacher career
plan. Finally, working individually with each municipality woiald engender greater
bureaucracy at the federal level and would be nearly impossible to attend to the diverse
needs of the 2,682 municipalities in the North, Northeast, and Center-West Regions.
Project coordination at the state level, with municipal interventions managed by the state
secretariat was also analyzed. While this indirect coordination would facilitate project
implementation, state cooperation with the municipal level would depend upon the political
party or personal relationship between the state and municipal secretariats. Deriving
lessons from the experience of the Northeast Basic Education Project, where municipalities
were largely excluded as funds were controlled almost exclusively at the state level, project
planners noted that there is little incentive for the state secretariat to look beyond their own
system for capital and pedagogical improvements.
Based on this analysis, as well as the need to accompany the mnunicipalization process in a
balanced, supportive combination of top-down and bottom-up policies, the project's
designers and the Bank looked to an integrated system of project coordination, which
would attend to the needs of a group of schools within a defined grouping of municipalities.
There are at least three existing means of grouping municipalilies, including groups based
on: regional divisions of the state secretariat, regional divisions of UNDIME, and IBGE
microregions.
Organization of the micro-regions based on the state secretariat's directorates was rejected
by FUNDESCOLA's designers as the regional groups are: largely dependent upon the location
of the state system schools, politically motivated, and, in the case of the Northeast Basic
Education Project, have not proved effective in the distribution of resources to the
municipal system. However the implementation of an entirely new system that completely
bypasses the state may be politically as well as institutionally difficult. Cooperation at some
level (i.e. coordination of teacher certification programs, technical support of the
microregional forum, and so on) should be sought as the existing regional offices are often
better equipped than municipal offices (both in human and tec]bnical resources) and could
be used in implementing FUNDESCOLA.
A second possibility, organization based on the divisions of UNDIME, varies greatly by state.
Experience with the Northeast Basic Education Project has shown, for example that in
Bahia UNDIME regions have been designed in opposition to the state secretariat's DIRECs,
in order to give greater voice to municipal secretaries. In Ceari, the president of UNDIME
works closely with the state secretary and UNDIME divisions match those of the state
secretariat. The status of UNDIME in the North is precarious at best, and will be strengthened
84



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
as FUNDESCOLA is implemented.
The project's designers, through collaboration with UNDIME and in consultation with
stakeholders, ultimately decided on divisions laid out by the Brazilian Census Bureau
(IBGE). These microregions are within state lines, respect municipal divisions, and group
together a number of municipalities, usually around a leading municipality such as the
capital or other city. The IBGE microregions were selected as a means of grouping
municipalities for project implementation as they are transparent (see Figure 7.4 or the IBGE
website at http://www.ibge.gov.br), include both political-administrative and socio-
economic divisions, and facilitate data collection as the Household Surveys and other
national census instruments use the microregions.
The microregion model permits a more rational and effective managerial option than the
traditional dispersion of resources among the individual municipalities or the concentration
of resources to state governments chronically biased toward the state-run school system.
Intervention in a microregion will cover all of the municipalities in the microregion, and all
municipalities will participate. The microregion does not constitute an additional
administrative division, but provides a basis for planning, negotiation, and dialogue among
the municipal governments and the state government. For these reasons FUNDESCOLA has
chosen the IBGE microregion as its key level of project execution.
Initial evidence in support of the Microregion Model
The microregion concept has already undergone significant testing in the preliminary
preparation of FUNDESCOLA. In each of the capital city microregions of the North and
Center West municipal education secretaries and representatives of the state secretariat have
collaborated in a number of project instruments including a Project Logframe, School
Assessment Survey, and Microregion Action Plan. Cooperation in the completion of these
requirements for project participation is independent of party divisions and is based on both
financial and operational incentives. For many municipalities, and often the state system,
the FVM will result in fewer resources. These jurisdictions are therefore further motivated
by these losses to participate in FUNDESCOLA resources as a significant contribution to their
overall education budget (See Table 7.1 for estimated losses and gains from the FVM by
Microregion). Municipal and state secretaries have also come to appreciate the advantages
of cooperating in a collective planning exercise. Many net "winners" are municipalities
with low institutional capacity and welcome the additional assistance for meeting their legal
responsibility to provide basic education to the young population of their municipalities, as
well as navigate an increasingly complex system. In sum, those facing fewer resources as
well as those with greater technical need are equally attracted to project participation.
A positive spin-off of this collaboration, in addition to project instruments that include the
input of all participating municipalities, has been the trading of teachers, student slots, and
school and building facilities among the historically disparate state and municipal systems.
The design of the microregion model strongly encourages greater rationalization and
economies of scale among the municipal and state systems.
85



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                       Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
Table 7.1 Estimated Losses and Gains from the FVM4 by Microregion (R$)
State     Microregion    Municipalities'    State    Adjustment  _ Municipal Budget
(MR)                                      in MR      Municipal Budget
AC      Rio Branco             3,480,409   -6,432,867   -2,952,458        8%
AM      Manaus                 6,863,386  -11,508,664   -4,645,278        3%
AP      Macapa                   315,810     -172,465    -856,656         1%
PA      Belem                 -4,294,823   19,921,759   15,626,963        -3%
RO      Porto Velho            -1,370,881    -2746,855   -4,117,735       -3%
RR      Boa Vista              -2,947,193    2,748,015   -199,178        -11%
TO      Porto Nacional         -2,655,226    -777,581   -3,432,808       -5%
GO      Goiania                1,407,995    2,435,428    3,843,423        1%
MS      Campo Grande           7,535,907   -2,295,040    5,240,866       12%
MT      Cuiaba                 3,672,367   -1,148,956    2,523,411        4%
Source: FNDE, 1997
Phasing of the FUNDESCOLA program
Each microregion will participate in FUNDESCOLA in two phases. Phase 1 would focus on
the implementation, by the participating states and municipalities of that microregion, of
Components 1 and 4 and institutional development under Components 2 and 3 (see text of
PAD). Consequently, it would raise the schools up to minimum operational standards, and
would include institutional development, systems development, and management training
for managers and technical staff in state and municipal secretariats of education to be
capable of establishing a school-based development process and carrying out programs to
increase school access. It is not expected that school construction or school project
financing would be addressed in any significant way during ithis phase. Phase 2 would
finance Components 2 and 3, and provide follow-up support for Components 1 and 4.
Project 1
FUNDESCOLA I will finance Phase 1 of the FUNDESCOLA program for the 10 capital city
microregions in the North and Center West states. These inc]lude the microregions
surrounding the cities of Belem, Boa Vista, Campo Grande, 'Cuiabd, Goiania, Macapa,
Manaus, Palmas, Porto Velho, Rio Branco. This first project will complete the development
and testing of materials, processes, implementation strategies, and training for the other
components. It will also include the finalization of instrumerLts, mechanisms, and guides for
these processes, the development, training, and trial testing of at least one complete cycle of
the implementation strategy to be carried out under Phase 2, and the pilot testing in a
specified number of municipalities and states of these processes. Finally, it will include
mechanisms to assure the sustainability of the processes initiated in this program.
1 Sum of FVM changes in municipalities within the capital city microregions.
2Calculated by proportion of expenditures allocated to microregion based on total enrollments in state
schools within the microregion.
86



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
Projects 2 and 3
It is expected that the second Project to be prepared under the FUNDESCOLA Program will
provide financing for Phase 2 for the same municipal and state schools and school systems
supported under the first Project as well as Phase 1 and 2 for additional microregions. This
loan could proceed if at least 50% of the loan funds of the first Project are disbursed. The
third and final Project would finance Phase 2 for the second group of microregions, and
Phases 1 and 2 of a final set of microregions.
Capital City Microregions
The capital city microregions, due to a process of rapid urbanization, possess the highest
concentration of population in each state. This is especially true in the North and Center
West Regions as outside of the capital, few medium to large cites exist. In the case of five
states, the population of the capital city is larger than the remainder of the state. These
numbers also hold true for the number of poor within the capital microregions. The largest
number of poor families and poor children reside in the capital and the surrounding urban
periphery.
FUNDESCOLA I will initiate implementation of Phase 1 within the Capital City Microregions
of the North and Center-West states, a decision based on a number of operational and
equity criteria, including: 1) the desire to attend to the highest concentration of students
within each state, 2) the most effective means of initiating dialogue between the state and
municipal systems, for replication within the interior in subsequent projects, and 3) the need
to test the Program's instruments and operations within an environment that can be more
easily monitored. Initial implementation within each state capital will allow for training of
the state secretariat staff and technicians to work directly with municipalities in their close
proximity, and secondly, initiate cooperation among the state and municipal secretariats for
future project experience.
Criteria for Subsequent Projects
Preliminary criteria for additional microregions has been established as the following:
In the North and Center West, those microregions whose leading municipality is
larger (in terms of population) than 50,000 will enter into the project. For those
microregions which border on entering (within a 5% margin) a secondary criteria using the
percentage of poor families, will be used. If the percentage of poor families is greater than
or equal to that of the last microregion to enter the project, then the microregion will enter.
In the Northeast, those microregions whose leading municipality is larger than 100,000
inhabitants will enter into the project. For those microregions which border on entering
(within a 5% margin) a secondary criteria using the percentage of poor families, will be
used. If the percentage of poor families is greater than or equal to that of the last
microregion to enter the project, then the microregion will enter. Table 7.2 shows the
distribution of population within the capital city microregions.
87



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                           Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
7.2 Distribution of Population by Mieroregion
State    Microregion     No. of   Pop. Of Leading  Pop. Of MR  MR % of State
(MR)         Municip.    Municipality                 Population
AC   Rio Branco                  7         228990       270701           57%
AM   Manaus                      7         1157357      1328995          56%
AP   Macapa                      8         220962       309970           82%
PA   Belem                       6        1144321       1628746          30%
RO   Porto Velho                 7         294334       339340           28%
RR   Boa Vista                   4          165518       179289          73%
TO   Porto Nacional             1           86116        163760          16%
GO   Goiania                    17         1004098      1493709          33%
MS  Campo Grande                 8         600069       651910           34%
MT  Cuiaba                       5         4333551      667567           30%
Source: IBGE 1996, Calculated
Additional criteria that can be considered for selection of microregions include: criteria
considering only poverty indicators, preference to those microregions that are farthest from
the capital (in order to strengthen interior poles), and location of regional state directorate
(to best use available technical and human resources). Table 7.3 shows the distribution of
poor families within the capital city microregions.
Table 7.3 - Distribution of Poor Families by Microregion
State      Microregion     Total Families  Poor Families MR % of Poor
(MR)            in MR          in MR    Families in State
AC        Rio Branco                  50782         8434           47%
AM        Manaus                     224956        13473           40%
AP        Macapa                      41000         3360           71%
PA        Belem                      289517        29027           17%
RR        Boa Vista                   29051          250           58%
TO        Porto Nacional4             20263         2663            9%
GO        Goiania                    314997        23542           22%
MS        Campo Grande               138594         9272           22%
MT        Cuiaba                     133164         9909           23%
Source: IBGE 1996, Calculated
3Porto Nacional, the microregion which includes Palmas, the capital of Tocantins is not the largest
microregion in the state. This is due to the particular demographic and political history of the state,
which was created in 1985.
88



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                   Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
Poverty Targeting and Variation within and among Microregions
Due to the well documented income inequalities in Brazil, poverty targeting is a key
priority of Bank social investments. This focus was supported by the most recent CAS,
which emphasized the importance of equalizing educational opportunities as a strategy for
reducing regional disparities (June 12, 1997). In determining an appropriate criteria to
effectively target poor communities in Brazil, it must be considered that poverty in Brazil is
widespread and not limited to any single municipality or region. This is to say that although
it is true that the North and Northeastern regions of Brazil have by far the lowest average
per capita income, extreme levels of poverty can be found in many areas of southern states
such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Regional aggregate indicators of poverty often are
misleading as they can hide the situation at the state and microregional level.
In the same way that comparison between regions sometimes hides the extreme inequalities
within them, variation among municipalities within the IBGE microregions can be just as
misleading. There is less variation between microregions than within microregions, that is,
the "poorest" municipality within a "rich" microregion is just as poor, and sometimes more
poor than the poorest municipality in a "poor" microregion. This comparison within
microregions holds true for the distribution of income using the example of the state of
GoiAs (Figure 7.1) as well as using promotion rates for the microregions within the same
state (see Figure 7.2). In Figure 7.1 it is clear that even though there is a large variation in
average income within each microregion, all microregions include very poor municipalities
(as measured by average income). The same can be concluded by analyzing Figure 7.2:
while there is a significant variation in the average promotion rates between microregions,
there are municipalities in each and every microregion that have very low promotion rates.
As stated above, the capital city microregions consist of the capital municipality (in nearly
every case the municipality with the largest population) and its neighboring municipalities.
Due to a historical process of urbanization these capitals have attracted significant
migration in search of economic, social, and educational opportunities. Frequently, the
recent migrants to the cities are among the poorest. As a result, the highest level of
inequality in any given state occurs in the capital city microregion, whereby the poorest
families are just as poor as the poorest in other microregions (in Figure 7. 1, this is shown by
Goiania, the longest of all vertical lines in the graph).
A comparison of average income in the capital city microregions in the North and Center
West (Figure 7.3) reveals that variation of income in all microregions is very large and that
all capital city microregions include municipalities with very low average income. As such,
by choosing the capital city microregions as beneficiaries, FUNDESCOLA I will target
geographical areas with high levels of inequality that contain very poor municipalities.
The poor in Brazil are not limited to any one geographical area. As a result, choosing a
single geographical area to target the poor is not the best way to approach project selection
as high levels of poverty exist in every microregion. However, by choosing to work with
the capital city microregions the project has selected those regions with: 1) the highest
concentration of poor families; 2) the greatest level of inequality within any single
89



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                    Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
microregion in each state; and 3) levels of extreme poverty comparable to those of any
other microregion.
90



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                        Annex 7
Microregions and Project Phasing
Figure 7.1 Average Income: Variation Within Microregions in Golis
'reorest rvMnicipafity
. MR Average
j Ric hest Muniipality
8  0.4 I
0.3                     a
CU_ 
0U 2    . v
A                          CC 
m  oz MicroRegioncro Region
Figure 7.2 Promotion Rates: Variation Within Microregions in GoiNns
0.91
0.8 
0.7T
i06          _
0.2
0.1    * MR Average
0    *Best fAinicipality
Co
0~~~~~~~~
cocro Region
Figure 7.3 Average Income: Variation Within Microregions In N and CW
I * Iborest KkJniclpalIt
0-9 - * MR Average
07 *Richest MAinicpI
01
E 0.6I 
80.5
0.4I
<0.3
0.2
0.1
0                                                                 I
E
0                           t~~~~~~~~~&lcro Region 0z
91



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                   Annex 7
Mlicroregions and Project Phasing
Figure 7A FUNDESCoLA I Capital City Microregions and Regions
LegendA
LWI capital City
Mficroregions
mNorth. Region
Scale          nco ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~crv ~~~~Center Wyvest Region
5m ~ ~~~~ ~~~ 1 WU rTi
* L            *   I         *f  * I  *
EOt            lO2Dnla
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jtlrrv  Regioyns
ml@4C7*ib01W(Notheast, South
and4ja l-nA' skon
=kiiotSti4MS O cw6palt                                                                  and Southeast)
Pw*00,199" Vf-WVJh*0WC A19V*
kwl eawm *~4~ ris,,   rep
92



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                   Annex 8
Social Assesment
Annex 8
FUNDESCOLA I
Social Assessment
1. Capital City Microregions: Social Context and Needs
Each FUNDESCOLA I microregion includes the capital city and a cluster (from five to
seventeen, an average eight) of neighboring municipalities, totaling 80. Each one of these
capital microregions represents a microcosm of its state in terms of geographic and
demographic differences. The population of the capital microregions vary from 163,760
(Palmas, Tocantins) to 1,628,746 (Belem, Pard), with an average 703,000. The proportion
of the state's population in the microregion ranges from 16 percent in Tocantins (Palmas) to
82 percent in Amapa (Macapa).
Poverty affects significant segments of the capital microregion populations. Seventy-one
percent of all families classified as poor in the state of Amapa live in Macapa, the capital.
This figure is 58 percent in Boa Vista (Roraima), 47 percent in Rio Branco (Acre); 40
percent in Manaus (Amazonas), and between 17 and 9 percent in Tocantins, Para, and
Rond6nia. In the Center-West states, an average 23 percent of all families classified as poor
live in the capital microregions. Of a total of approximately 1,350,000 children in the 7-14
age group in the ten capital microregions, 98,000 (or 7.7 percent) are out of school.
2. Education and Social Development
Social development means to a large extent economic development. A diverse body of
literature shows that a country's development requires educated adults, higher individual
earnings, and greater agricultural productivity, but also a set of behaviors and attitudes of a
distinctive "social" character. According to a study by IBGE, there is a strong relationship
between unemployment and education: of the 4.2 million unemployed in Brazil, 51 percent
have less than four years of schooling.
Designed to support social development, FUNDESCOLA I assumes that basic education: (a)
forges national unity and social cohesiveness by conveying common values (i.e., the school
staff and its community are responsible for educational improvement); (b) is a proven
mechanism for social mobility and distribution of collective resources; (c) leads to the
adoption of "modern" attitudes--meaning rational and egalitarian beliefs, conducive to
pluralism and productivity; (d) promotes adaptability of the population to technological
change; (e) enhances community development and participation; (f) upgrades the status of
women as mothers, labor force members and community leaders; (g) helps reduce women's
fertility, which makes raising the standard of living less difficult; (g) improves domestic
hygiene and nutritional practices, thus increasing children's survival, psycho-social
development and school readiness; and (h) encourages parents to send their children to
school, thus reinforcing a "virtuous circle."
93



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                Annex 8
Social Assesment
3. Preliminary Conclusions and Social Expectations
A review of local studies and the preliminary beneficiary assessment conducted in the
North,' mainly in two of the capital microregions (Beldm and Manaus), yield the following
conclusions:
*  State and municipal education systems are at best not coordinated, and at worst,
in conflict with one another;
*  Parents and the community hold high, almost idealized, expectations about
schooling and the possibility that schools can produce outstanding educational
results despite their social and physical context;
*  Poor families look to the school and the education process as their last chance to
seek to achieve better living conditions in the future. They are aware that society
does not normally give the poor a second chance other than school.
*  Parents expect that their children will attain higher levels of schooling than they
had.
*  Teachers expect children to begin first grade already having mastered basics of
reading. As a consequence, they do not concentrate on initial literacy
acquisition.
*  Parents hope that their children's persistence in school despite high levels of
age-grade distortion, learning failures and repetition, may nevertheless
compensate for school deficiencies.
*  Classroom strategies and methodologies are often limited to repetitive activities
such as copying from the blackboard and didactic, non-interactive
methodologies.
*  Schools in which priority is given to educational. achievement contribute to
significantly raise academic performance, but schools do not often plan for these
objectives.
X  In many conmmunities the school is the most visible social agency. Schools are
seen by the students and parents as a place for social communication and
exchange. Nevertheless, socialization is not an issue valued by school teachers
and other school leaders.
Two major reasons are frequently reported by adlolescents for dropping out of
school: the need to work, and poor school quality. Both factors combine to cause
a high dropout rates; higher in the North than in the Center-West.
* A great sociological distance exists between the school and the community.
This has to do with unmet expectations on both sides. The school does not
promote comrnunity involvement in order that parents can participate in school
life and their children's education.
As a pilot project, FUNDESCOLA I will develop a full-fledged beneficiary assessment for the
North and Center-West regions. The methodology has been established and the consultants
Portela, Adelia Luiza. Avaliacgo do Beneficikrio: Estudo Preliminar Realizado nas Regi6es do Norte e
Nordeste do Brasil., FUNDESCOLA (Unpublished, 1997).
94



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                    Annex 8
Social Assesment
selected, so that work can be started immediately following the implementation of the
project. The results will be applied to FUNDESCOLA I and the subsequent FUNDESCOLA
projects. Preliminary data seem to indicate that the North and Center-West needs and
expectations do not differ markedly from those identified in the Northeast and described in
the "A Call to Action" report.2
Beneficiaries and Expected Benefits
The ultimate beneficiary of FUNDESCOLA I will be the North and Center-West society and
economy which will reap the advantages of having better equipped and result-oriented
schools, and as a consequence, more learned and skilled students who will, in turn, become
participatory and contributing citizens of a democratic society and productive builders of a
knowledge-based economy. The immediate beneficiaries are:
Students will benefit most from the following project inputs: (a) the assurance of Minimum
Operational Standards in overall school operation; (b) school-selected classroom materials;
(c) more motivated teachers to help the students benefit from the learning process; (d) the
organization and innovation implied by the school development plan and the school
subprojects; and (e) school principals with higher levels of managerial skills to make school
a more pleasant and efficient place.
Teachers will benefit substantively from: (a) availability of didactic materials to improve
their work environment and raise the probability of successful results; (b) the specialized
teaching improvement programs; (c) the institution of school subprojects as quality-
oriented instruments; and (d) availability of quality feedback/evaluation information
provided by SAEB.
School Principals will benefit from: (a) continuing professional development programs and
acquisition of modem managerial skills; (b) the School Development Plan as a key
participatory and team-building instrument; (c) the provision of closer technical assistance
by the Municipal Education Secretariat and the School Development Group; (d) the
cooperation provided by more motivated and efficient teachers; and (e) closer and
meaningful cooperation provided by more informed parents.
Parents will benefit considerably from: (a) the operation of a more efficient, and
accountable learning environment for their children; (b) cooperative participation in the
design of the School Development Plan; (c) more skillful and qualified school managers to
interact with; (d) more motivated, professionally developed and community-oriented
teachers; and (e) additional information on the social and economic value of schooling
prompting them to retain their children at school and defer immediate economic
gratification.
2 Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil. Brasilia: Ministry of
Education/Northeast Basic Education Project, The World Bank, UNICEF, 1997.
95






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                  Annex 9
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9
FUNDESCOLA I
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
200,000             140,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     14 months            8 months
First Bank mission (identification)            07/01/97             07/01/97
Project Concept Paper review meeting           11/15/97             10/23/97
Appraisal mission departure                    01/16/98             12/01/97
Negotiations                                   04/15/98             02/18/98
Board Presentation                             06/15/98
Signing                                        08/15/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/30/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: Government of Brazil
C. Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Robin Horn                   Task Management/Education Economics
Ward Heneveld                           Education/School
Alberto Rodriguez                           Education
Alcyone Saliba                             Education
Barbara Nunberg                         Public Management
Chris Parel                       Economist/Country Officer
Juliana Weissman                       Social Fund Specialist
Madalena dos Santos                          Education
Sergei Suarez                         Education Economics
97






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                           Annex 10
Documents in Project File
Annex 10
FUNDESCOLA I
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Operations and Implementation Manual (MOIP)
Will be available on project effectiveness.
B. Other
1.  Subsidios para a elaboracao do Plano Nacional de Educacao: educacao infantil e ensino fundamental.
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
2. Evolucao da Educacao BAsica no Brasil: 1991-1997. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
3.  Fundo de Manutencao e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e de ValorizacAo do Magisterio:
guia para sua operacionalizacao. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto -MEC, Fundo Nacional de
Desenvolvimento da Educacao - FNDE, Sao Paulo 1997.
4.  Carta Lei Darcy Ribeiro no. 9.394, de 1996: emendas A constituicao nos. 11 e 14, de 1996 e Lei
9.424, de 1996, Diretrizes e Bases da Educacao Nacional. Gabinete do Senador Darcy Ribeiro, Brasilia,
1997.
5.  Sistematica de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educacao - FNDE, Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto -MEC, Brasilia, 1997.
6.  Dinheiro na Escola: procedimentos operacionais. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto - MEC,
Brasilia. 1997.
7. Manual de Orientacao para ConstituicAo de Unidades Executoras. MEC - Secretaria de Educacao
Fundamental, Brasilia, 1997.
8.  Informe Estatistico 1, 1996: Brasil, Norte, Nordeste, Sudeste, Sul, Centro-Oeste. Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
9.  Informe Estatistico 2, 1996: Rond6nia, Acre, Amazonas, Roraima, Amapa, Para, Tocantins. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
10. Informe Estatistico 3, 1996: Maranhao, Piauf, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Alagoas,
Sergipe, Bahia. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
11. Informe Estatistico 4, 1996: Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
12. Informe Estatistico 5, 1996: ParanA, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul. Instituto Nacional de Estudos
e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
13. Informe Estatistico 6, 1996: Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, GoiAs, Distrito Federal. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
14. Sistema Nacional de Avaliagao da Educacao Basica, SAEB/95: resultados estaduais. Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
15. Ditos sobre a EvasAo Escolar: estudos de casos no estado da Bahia. Paulo Roberto Holanda Gurgel.
Ministdrio da EducacAo e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educacao Basica para o Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
16.    Educacao, Escola e Comunidade: estudo piloto no estado da Bahia. Adelia Luiza Portela and Eni
Santana Barretto Bastos. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto - MEC, Projeto de Educacao Basica para o
Nordeste, Brasilia, 1997.
17.    Chamada A AcAo: combatendo o fracasso escolar no Nordeste. Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial,
UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
18.    Licbes e Praticas 1-13. Varias Autores, Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia
1997.
19.    Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretarios Municipais de Educacao (PRASEM).
Projeto Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
99






School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                                                                                                            Annex 11
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                Lest ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                     disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year              Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                           IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 201
Active Loans
BR-PE-6414    IBRD 30430  1989  COMGAS, SAO PAULO                    NTRL CAS DIST                94.00        0.00             0.00           5.09       5.07       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6370    IBRD 30130  1989  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR            NE IRRI JAIBA                71.00        0.00             0.00           5.58       5.59       0.00      HS             S
BR-PE-6446    IBRD 31730  1990  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR            NAT ENVIRONMT               117.00        0.00             0.00         26.59      26.61        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6453    IBRD 31700  1990  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR            NE IRRIG I                  210.00        0.00            69.00         31.94    100.96       31.96        S             S
BR-PE-6473    IBRD 31600  1990  STATE OF SANTA CATARINA              LND MGMT II-S. CATAR         33.00        0.00             0.00           5.33       5.38       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6492    IBRD 33760  1991  PETROBRAS                 BRAZI      HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO        260.00        0.00             0.00           8.81       8.80       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6364    IBRD 33750  1991  STATE OF SAO PAULO                   INNOV BASIC ED              245.00        0.00             0.00         44.24       44.24       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6505    IBRD 34920  1992  GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                 MATO GROSSO NAT RES         205.00        0.00             0.00         88.77       88.77       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6368    IBRD 3442A  1992  GOVERNMENT                           WATER SECTOR MODERNI         69.62        0.00             0.00         57.93    225.80         0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6547    IBRD 36330  1993  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                    METRO TRANSP. RIO            81.02        0.00             0.00            .34     37.57        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6427     IBRD 36040  1993  MIN. OF EDUCATION   N               NE BASIC EDUC II            212.00        0.00             0.00         57.96      39.02        0.00       s             S
BR-PE-6540    IBRD 35540  1993  MINAS GERAIS ST.                     WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA        145.00        0.00             5.00         25.68      30.67    -12.53         S             S
BR-PE-6378    IBRD 35480  1993  STATE GOVERNMENTS                    STATE HWY MGMT               38.00        0.00            18.00           6.53     26.76      -1.38        U             U
BR-PE-6378    IBRD 35470  1993  STATE GOVERNMENTS                    STATE HWY MGMT               50.00        0.00             0.00           5.58     26.76      -1.38        U             U
BR-PE-6541    IBRD 35050  1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                  WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)        117.00        0.00             0.00         49.05      93.17       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6541    IBRD 35040  1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                  WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)        119.00        0.00             0.00         38.54      93.17       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6541    IBRD 35030  1993  S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                  WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)          9.00        0.00             0.00          5.60      93.17       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6522    IBRD 37670  1994  ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO                 ESP.SANTO WATER             154.00        0.00             0.00         90.30      59.06       0.00        S             U
BR-PE-6558    IBRD 37660  1994  REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                   PARANA BASIC EDUC            96.00        0.00             0.00         29.01      -3.67       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6543    IBRD 37330  1994  GOVERNMENT                           M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC        150.00        0.00             0.00         56.60      13.93       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6555    IBRD 37150  1994  STATE GOVTS                          STE HWY MGT II               79.00        0.00            18.00          7.52       3.67    -21.52         S             S
BR-PE-6555    IBRD 37130  1994  STATE GOVTS                          STE HWY MGT II               54.00        0.00            18.00         18.48       3.67    -21.52         S             S
BR-PE-6452    IBRD 36630  1994  MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                NE BASIC EDUC III           206.60        0.00             0.00         88.21      60.34       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6546    IBRD 36590  1994  GOVERNMENT                           AIDS CONTROL                160.00        0.00             0.00         16.40       1.58       0.00        S            HS
BR-PE-6524    IBRD 36390  1994  ST.OF MINAS GERAIS                   MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT         050.00        0.00             5.00         40.23      33.88       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-38885   IBRD 39190  1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL                       RURAL POV.-SERGIPE           36.00        0.00             0.00         21.27       1.26       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-38884   IBRD 39180  1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL                       RURAL POV.- CEARA            70.00        0.00             0.00         49.77       8.17       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-35717   IBRD 39170  1995  GOVT OF BRAZIL                       RURAL POV. (BAHIA)          105.00        0.00             0.00         65.51       8.20       0.00       S              S
BR-PE-6564    IBRD 39160  1995  FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                  BELO H M.TSP                 15.68        0.00             0.00            .36     42.78       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6564    IBRD 3916A  1995  FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                  BELO H M.TSP                 83.32        0.00             0.00         83.32      42.78       .0.00       S             S
BR-PE-38882   IBRD 3915A  1995  FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               RECIFE M.TSP                 98.72        0.00             0.00         98.72      42.80       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6436    IBRD 37890  1995  STATE OF CEARA            ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO        140.00        0.00             0 00        111.59      68.92      -2.16        S             S
BR-PE-37828   IBRD 40600  1996  STATE OF PARANA                       (PR)R.POVERTY              175.00        0.00             0.00        175.00      67.93       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6554    IBRD 40470  1996  FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                  HLTH SCTR REFORM            300.00        0.00             0.00        261.09      64.41       0.00        S             S
BR-PE-40028   IBRD 4046A  1996  FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR            RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG        151.48        0.00             0.00        142.62         .95       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6512    IBRD 39240  1996  CVRD                                 ENV/CONS(CVRD)               50.00        0.00             0 .00        31.07        4.93      0.00        S             S
BR-PE-6547    IBRD 3633A  1996  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                    METRO TRANSP. RIO            47.48        0.00             0.00         37.22      37.57        0.00       S             S
BR-PE-46052   IBRD 41900  1997                                       CEARA WTR PILOT                9.60       0.00             0.00           9.60       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-4887Q   IBRD 41890  1997  THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO             MT STATE PRIV.               45.00        0.00             0.00          45.00       4.17       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6532    IBRD 41880  1997  FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                   FED HWY DECENTR             300.00        0.00             0.00        300.00       13.34       0.00      HS             S
BR-PE-43873   IBRD 41690  1997  FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                    AG TECH DEV.                 60.00        0.00             0.00          56.01       6.96       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-34578   IBRD 41650  1997  RIO GRANDE DO SUL                    RGS HWY MGT                  70.00        0.00             0.00          70.00       4.67       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-43868   IBRD 41480  1997  STATE OF RGS                         RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY        100.00        0.00             0.00          97.00       6.87       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6475    IBRD 41470  1997  FED. REP. OF BRAZIL                  LAND RFM PILOT               90.00        0.00             0.00          75.05      -3.85       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-6562    IBRD 41400  1997  STATE OF BAHIA                       BAHIA MUN.DV                100.00        0.00             0.00          98.98       5.65       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-39196   IBRD 41390  1997  STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU            RGS ST.REFORM               125.00        0.00             0.00          75.00      30.00       0.00       S             S
BR-PE-42566   IBRD 41220  1997  STATE OF PERNAMBUCO                  R.POVERTY(PE)                39.00        0.00             0 00          33.61       5.56       0.00       S             S
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                         101



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                                                                                                      Annex 11
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                 disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year              Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                         IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj           Imp Prog
BR-PE-43871   IBRD 41210  1997  STATE OF PIAUI                     (PIAUI)R.POVERTY            30.00       0.00             0.00        26.67       4.17       0.00       S            S
BR-PE-38896   IBRD 41200  1997  STATE OF RGN                       R.POVERTY(RGN)              24.00       0.00             0.00        21.24       2.71       0.00       S            S
BR-PE-38947   IBRD 42660  1998  GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               SC. & TECH 3               155.00       0.00             0.00       155.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-6549    IBRO 42650  1998  PETROBRAS                          GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT       130.00       0.00             0.00       130.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-51701   IBRD 42520  1998  STATE OF MARANHAO                  MARANHAO R.POVERTY          80.00       0.00             0.00        80.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-42565   IBRD 42510  1998  STATE OF PARAIBA                   PAPAIBA R.POVERTY           60.00       0.00             0.00        60.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-48357   IBRD 42450  1998  REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                 CEN.BANK TAL                20.00       0.00             0.00        20.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-6474    IBRD 42380  1998  STATE OF SAO PAULO                 LAND MGT 3(SP)              55.00       0.00             0.00        55.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-35728   IBRD 42320  1998  STATE OF BAHIA                     BAHIA WTR RESOURCES         51.00       0.00             0.00        51.00       0.00       0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD 42110  1998  STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO            RJ ST.PRIV.                250.00       0.00             0.00       250.00    137.50        0.00       S            S
Total                                                                                       6,191.52       0.00          133.00      3,597.01  1,732.42    -28.53
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              2,461.49           14,924.18          17,385.67
of which has been repaid:                203.09          12,311.36           12,514.45
Total flow held by IBRD and IDA:             5,855.42            2,663.84           8,519.26
Amount sold                     :                 0.00              45.83               45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00               45.83              45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,597.01               51.05           3,648.06
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Mote:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                      102



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                                                  Annex 12
Brazil at a Glance
Brazil at a glance                                                               8128f97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America  middle-
Brazil   & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        161.2       485      479
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             4,360      3,710    4,540                Ltfe expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               702.9      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population %)1 4                                                   1.7      1.5      GNGrs
Labor force ()1.6                                                  2.3      1.5       e                               rmr
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulation)                17
Urban population (% of total population)                 78        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         67        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 44                                  Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               16
Access to safe water (% of population)                   92        80        86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      17        13        13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   114       110       107          -    razd
Male                                                                        -                Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratioa
GDP (billions US$)                           121.8    222.9      716.9    748.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 26 8     192        20.1     19.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP              7 5     12.2        6.7      6.6             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    22.9     24.4       19.2     18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    21.1     19 3       17.6     16.3
Current account balance/GDP                   -5.8     -0.2       -2.5     -3.2                     /
Interest payments/GDP                          17       3.3        1.2      1.7     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                22.4     46.5       22.2     23.8
Total debt servicelexports                    43.5     39.1       43.1     46.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                         22.1
Present value of debt/exports                                    270.7
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      199  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Brazil
GDP                                   3.1      12       4.1        2.9      4.8
GNP per capita                        0.2     -0.4      2.8        1.6      4.0                Upper-middle-icome group
Exports of goods and services        10.5      6.5     -1.4        61       7 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and Investment 1%)
Agriculture                                   12.1     11.5       14.4     144       10
Industry                                      40.2     45.3       36.5     36.4       s                          _
Manufacturing                               30.3      33.7      23.8                o
Services                                      47.7     43.1       49.1     49.2                         93   94   S5    5
Private consumption                           66.5     65.8       64.9     65.7    -10
General govemment consumption                 10.6      9.9       15.9     16.1
Importsofgoodsandservices                     11.5      7.1        7.6      7.9               -         G   GDP
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and Imports l%)
Agriculture                                    4.3      2.6        4.9      3.1      40
Industry                                       3.0    -1.1         2.1      213
Manufacturing                                2.6      -1.5       2.1               20
Services                                       2.9      2.8        5.3      3.3
Private consumption                            3.0      1.8       11.0      4.1      0                  9     ,
General govemment consumption                  1.2      0.7        2.4      0.8
Gross domestic investment                     -2.9     -0.6        9.4      0.0    -20
Imports of goods and services                 -4.0      8.9       36.8      5.9
Gross national product                         2.5      1.1        4.2      2.9                    Exports    *lrnports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
103



School Improvement Project: FUNDESCOLA I                                                                            Annex 12
Brazil at a Glance
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995     1996
Domestic prkes                                                                    IntlatIon (%)
(6 change)                                                                       3 000 
Consumer prices                             25.0    226.9       67.0     15.5    2,500
Implicit GDP deflator                       33.9   231.7        74.9     11.1     1,57900jf 
Government finance                               's                       o 
500
(% of GDP)                                                                          o
Current revenue                               ..       ..       31.5     32.4             91   92   93   94   95   9e
Primary surplus/deficit                        .        ..       0.4    -0.1                     GDPdef -O-CPI
Operatonal surplus/deficit                    ..       ..       -4.8     -3.9
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  25,638    46,508   47,746      so.oo0
Coffee                                       ..   2,607      1,970    2,059
Other food                                   ..   2,545      3,896    4,665
Manufactures                                  ..  13,356    25,568   26,247     40.000
Total imports (cif                             .   13,153    49,663   53,286
Food                                         ..   ..  3,535  6,044  20,000-&kh iII
Fuel and energy                               ..   6,176     4,649    5,752
Capital goods                                 ..   2,480    19,688   19,804
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..      97        128      126           90  91  92  93  94  95  94
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..      79       124       125                  a Exports    e Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..    123         103     101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               9,418   27,713    47,960   49,558     1
Imports of goods and services              14,323   16,928    54,306   59,355
Resource balance                           -4,905   10,785    -6,346   -9,797     o
Net income                                 -2,106  -11,213   -15,419  -17,402        n               92 3
Net current transfers                        -10       16      3,973    2,899       T
Current account balance,                                                         -2
before official capital transfers        -7,021     -412   -17,792  -24,300
Financing items (net)                       5,956    1,826    30,779   32,935
Changes in net reserves                     1,065   -1,414   -12,987   -8,635     4
Memo:
Reserves inciuding gold (mill. USS)         4,166   11,613    51,469   59,663
Conversion rate (local/US$)               3.OE-12  2.3E-09       0.9      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       27,329  103,601   159,130  178,131                      A    C
IBROD                                     1045    5,274      6,038    5,876              G      638142  D
IDA                                          0        0         0        0             30494             3327
Total debt service                          4,320   11,470    22,328       ..                                    E
IBRD                                        98      796      1,868    1,638                                  19451
IDA                                          0        0         0        0
Compositon of net resource flows                                                              ()
Official grants                              9       34        64        ..
Official creditors                        1,059     935    -1,378        ..
Private creditors                        4,213      149      9,827       ..
Foreign direct investment                 1,302    1,348     4,859
Portfolio equity                             0        0      4,411                                 F
99678
World Bank program
Commitments                                538    1,525       404       858      A - IBRO                   E- Bilateral
Disbursements                              249      765        838    1,500      B- IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        26      406      1,377    1,222      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  224      359       -539      278
Intereslt payments                          72      391       491      416
Net transfers                              152       -32    -1,031     -138
Development Economics                                                                                              8/28/97
104



VENEZUELA   G ) A   50FR. 
\ -H < < l~~~~SURINAMEiGUIANA                                                                                                                   n     r n  A  -71
COLOMBIA                   j                        a         Z(FR)/                                                                                                                 t               L  I L
'    Vista0   \   >
'\-  t   l    XRORAIMA  \l {~~/   <- AMAPA                                                                                            FUNDESCOLA I PROJECT STATES:
\~,AMA  PA__                                                                                           _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _   _
I '   '  '         ' XMacciprJ /                                                                                        NORTH REGION
CENTER WEST REGION
.Be em'
?   i  -  <3Manau5  *   ? s   tll hi Osia  . 2,              <3Siao Luis                                                    RIVERS
/ i   AM   ZOP   A    R                                                  o- Fartalezo                   0     STATE CAPITALS
A.AZONAS  , ,? '      --     2MARANHAO                               Teresina                                        0      NATIONAL CAPITAL
<"'                                   'l?~Iv  CEAA  -IO
/jCEARA   GRANDE   Natal
J .       ).        (k DO NORTE                STATE BOUNDARIES
2                                                             /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*       A                                        /            /                    X (: k   :^ t~ P I ARA I  3A              REGION BOUNDARIES
. ,Pessoa
A C RiE                     -4J0Porto _7N,4mU /                                                                                               0    ie           --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bro 0o                                                               /       .           --AtGA                                                          This map  as produced by the
-10'                    (    .  "                                                                                                                       :\  ,ALAGOAS
ROND(5N1A"__'1                           ~~~~~TOCANTN                                        ArclsMap Design Unit of The World Bonh.
-    ;            /s RONDONIA 7                                                            /                                CXcu0spr T10                       The boundaries, colors,denominotions
P  E  R  U             \\                                                MATO                  I                         B A  H I A              -                                 and anyother information shownon
| ..G.                     RO50                                                                                                       this map do not imply, an the part of
GROSSO  l~~~~~~~~~-.~~~~--~~~'s           o ~~~~The World Bank Group, any j,dgosest
? Salvador                           on the legalstatIus of any territory or
/  *-~~~~~~~~~.... ~~~~~~~any endorsement or accptance of
such boundaries.
Cvia b6.`                     BRASILIA- r
4)                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Goienia
M I N A S         /PANAMA                                          VENEZUELA j<GUYANA
BOLIVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                    5'               I SURINAME
gs .. B O L I V I A            >                ~' t     M I  N ~ --.  /      GERAIS                             *COLOMBIA    (FR                                  ENCH GUIANA (FRi
-    --.     M~~ATO GROSS                                      Belo   *
DO SUL                                     Horizonte)ESPiRITO                               ECUADGv \v
-C20                                              ( ?jVit6ria                               t :
-20.                                                    G)                                                                         'A.1a
\~ /  ~   8    l  C SAO PAULO   (                                                          t /  PERU '-i1        'i-r
7                  ,,~~~~~./- - -tJROD JANEIRO20 
CHILE!                                                                               Sao PauloRiodeJane PARAGUAY      R    e JANEiro                            BOUVIA
C .ILE.                                                 PARANA   _-                P                                                                           --1
s  -   ritiba                                                                        '1"PARAGUAY
CHILE '        ,))
)                      (~~~~~~~7    L ~~t"STA-CATARINA(
~'.     Florian6polis                                                                     ARGENTINA) 
A  RG           NT    NA                7       t  . 57__________RGETIN_j
!   A  R G  E N  T I N  A                                                  0       250      590      750      1000 KILOMETERS                               URUGUAY
RIO GRANDE  IPrt Aer 
I s                                      f \        DO SUL E  >PartD  Alegre U                 200        400        600 MItES
I _ 30O                         *                                         ;             \                                                                                                    t  .                               '
80'                            \70'                               60'  -URUGUAY  (                 5074 20  301
aI                                                                                                                                                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __0  0_   C.



