Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23296
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-431 10)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 62.5 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL
FOR THE
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT - FUNDESCOLA I
11/24/2001
Brazil Country Management Unit
Human and Social Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bani authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 2001)
Currenicy Unit = BRAZILIAN REAL (R$)
R$1.00 = US$ 0.37
IJS$ 1.00 = RS2.71
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COEP          State-based Project Executive Coordination (Coordena,cao Estadual Executiva do
Projeto)
CONSED       National Council of State Education Secretaries (Conselho Nacional de Secretarios
Estaduais de Educa,co)
Cw           Center-West region of Brazil, Comprising the states of Goias (GO), Mato Grosso (MT),
and Mato Grosso do Sul (MS), but excluding the Federal District
DGP          Central Project Coordination Unit (Dire,do Geral do Projeto)
FNDE         National Education Development Fund (Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educa,co)
Fundescola   School Improvement Program (Programa Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola)
Fundef        Fund for the Development and Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization
(Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Manuten,do do Ensino Fundamental e Valorizaao do
Magist&rio)
GDE           School Development Group (Grupo de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
GT           Technical Group (Grupo Tkenico)
IBGE         Brazilian Census Bureau (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica)
ICB          Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
INEP         National Institute for Educational Research and Studies, a MEC-based agency (Instituto
Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais).
LDB          National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases de Educa,do Nacional)
MEC          Brazilian Ministry of Education
MOS          Minimum Operational Standards
MOIP         Project Operations and Implementation Manual (Manual de Opera,ces e Implementa,cao
do .Projeto)
N            North region of Brazil, comprising the states of Acre (AC), Amazonas (AM), Amapa
(AP), Para (PA), Rondonia (RO), Roraima (RR), and Tocantins (TO)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NE           Northeast region of Brazil, comprising the states of Alagoas (AL), Bahia (BA), Ceara
(CE), Maranhao (MA), Pemambuco (PB), Paraiba (PE), Piaui (PI), Rio Grande do Norte
(RN), and Sergipe (SE)
NEBE         Northeast Basic Education Project (I and II)
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAE          State Action Program (Programa de A,do do Estado)
PAM          Municipal Action Program (Programa de A,do Municipal)
PAZ          Microregion Action Plan (Programa de ASdo 7onal)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PDE           School Development Plan (Projeto de Desenvolvimento Escolar)
PGS           Secretariat Business and Management Plan (Plano de Gestao da Secretaria)
PME           School Improvement Project (Projeto de Melhoria da Escola) initiated under PDE
PNLD          National Textbook Program (Programa Nacional do Livro Didatico)
PPO           Research and Operationalization Program of Education Policies (Programa de Pesquisa e
Operacionlizaado)
PRASEM        Municipal Education Secretariats Support Prograrn (Program de Apoio aos Secretarias
Municipais de Educaao)
PTA           Annual Work Plan (Plano de Trabalho Anual)
SAEB          National System for Basic Education Evaluation (Sistema Nacional de Avaliaqao da
Educafao Basica)
SEED          Secretariat of Distance Education (Secretaria de Educa9do a Distdncia)
SIED          Integrated Education Inforrnation System (Sistema Integrado de Infomaqoes
Educacionais)
SPA           Planning and Monitoring System (Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanamento)
SEF           Secretariat of Fundamental Education (Secretaria de Educaqdo Fundamental)
SEE           State Education Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Educaaiio)
SME           Municipal Education Secretariat (Secretaria Municipal de EducaaJo)
UE            School Council (Unidade Executora)
UNDIME        National Association of Municipal Education Managers (Unido Nacional dos Dirigentes
Municipais de Educa9&o)
ZAP           Priority Attention Zone
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:    William Experton
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Robin Horn
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
BR- Fundescola I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                32






Project ID: P050762                                         Project Name: BR- Fundescola I
Team Leader: Robin S. Horn                                  TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: December 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: BR- Fundescola I                                L/C/TFNumber: SCL-43110
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/15/1997                                Effective: 08/30/1998          08/30/1998
Appraisal:  12/15/1997                                 MTR:
Approval:  04/02/1998                                Closing: 06/30/2001           06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOV. OF BRAZIL/FEDERAL MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                           S. Javed Burki
Country Manager:      Vinod Thomas                                Gobind Nankani
Sector Manager:       Xavier E. Coll                              Julian Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:   Robin Hom and Andrea Guedes                 Robin Horn
ICR Primary Author:   Thomas Luschei; Andrea C.
Guedes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Safisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, H4L=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Utnlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of FUNDESCOLA I was to strengthen primary schools and the public
institutions that are responsible for them within a coordinated management framework, in order to increase
the participation, promotion and graduation rates, and achievement levels of children in the North and
Center-West capital microregions of Brazil (henceforth referred to as "Priority Attention Zones").
FUNDESCOLA I was the first of several projects that would attend to educational needs in the three
poorest regions of Brazil - the North, Northeast, and the Center-West.
The overall FUNDESCOLA Program, which was agreed to in principle by the World Bank and the
government of Federative Republic of Brazil in October, 1997, was to be phased in between 1998 and
2008. The first step was the current project, FUNDESCOLA I -- designed to address Program start-up.
It was to pilot school-based initiatives, instruments, and strategies, inaugurate the equity-enhancing
"minimum operational standards" model for school improvement, launch the school-based development
process to increase school effectiveness, and disseminate these initiatives and other school quality models to
state and municipal secretariats throughout the North and Center-West regions. In addition, it was to
utilize a new approach to implementation support based on the "Priority Attention Zone" approach, in
which adjacent municipalities, grouped into microregions, would collaborate with their state governments
and the Ministry of Education on collectively improving the quality of the schools in their jurisdictions.
FUNDESCOLA II, to begin in 2000, would expand the Program into all nine Northeast states and triple
the number of municipalities receiving priority support. With FUNDESCOLA II, the initiatives and tools
developed under FUNDESCOLA I were to be incorporated into an explicit school improvement strategv,
which would be propagated throughout the Northeast, North, and Center-West states and municipalities
with semninars, workshops, demonstration projects, and especially through the implementation of the
strategy by thousands of schools. The third phase of the program, FUNDESCOLA III, would be launched
in 2002. FUNDESCOLA III would emphasize the integration of FUNDESCOLA school improvement
refornns into the structures and routines of local governnents' education secretariats. In addition to
supporting the firther expansion of FUNDESCOLA I and II initiatives, FUNDESCOLA III would develop
a variety of structured teaching and learning models for diverse schools and population groups, build the
capacity of local governments to support the sustained improvement of school quality and student
achievement, and through incentives and partnerships, promote the permanence of these reforms. In this
way, the Program would address the sustainability of Fundescola-based school improvement by local
governments.
3.2 Revised Objective:
not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs of FUNDESCOLA I were estimated to be US$125 million, (US$62.5
loan). These costs were to be divided among four components:
1. Raising schools to minimum operational standards (72.2%) intended to raise the
quality of sub-standard schools up to, at least, a minimally acceptable level in terms of
educational materials, teaching staff, equipment, furniture and facilities.
2. Establishing a School Development Process (4.2%) designed to promote an
intensive school-based institutional development and strategic planning process,
culminating in the implementation of the school's development plan.
- 2 -



3. Planning and Providing Additional School Places (3.4%) meant to establish
methodologies for more rational planning and provision of school facilities.
4. Strengthening Education Management and Project Administration (20.2%)
aimed at increasing management capacity of municipal and state secretariats of
education; fostering conununity participation and support for the project; strengthening
national education information systems and programs; and supporting project
coordination and implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The FUNDESCOLA I design was consistent with the CAS sector goal of universal
schooling in grades one to eight by 2007 as well as the Government's emphasis on imnproving
primary education and decreasing regional inequities in educational achievement. The project
was based on the results of A Call to Action: Combating School Failure in the Northeast of
Brazil, a report produced collaboratively by the Ministry of Education (MEC), the World Bank,
and UNICEF, and on lessons learned from Northeast Basic Education Projects. The findings and
recommendations of the study served as the foundation for the project's objectives and its four
components. The implementation arrangements were based on the lessons from the prior
education projects. Finally, the implementing agency drew upon its significant experience in
planning and executing the project.
It should be noted however that, despite the solid analytic and operational basis on which
FUNDESCOLA I was designed, the project teamn faced difficulties in the development of two of
the project's initiatives: the "minimum operational standards" model and the Proformaciio teacher
development program. The project design team proposed a simple and transparent checklist of
inputs and services, a "pre-defined, minimal set of educational materials, teaching staff,
equipment, furniture, and facilities" to be used in any school to assess whether it was operating at
least at a functional level, and to specify what would be needed to bring the school up to that
level. The Ministry, on the other hand, developed a more sophisticated set of instruments and
measures. First, the Ministry introduced the "School Facilities Survey," which would assess all
aspects of school infrastructure in great detail. Second, the Ministry's "Guidelines for Minimum
Operational Standards" was a comprehensive manual, rather than a checklist, specifying in detail
the full set of pre-requesites for schools to be considered operational. This divergence between
the two concepts was resolved by the time of the project's launch. The operational manual
specifies that the Minimum Operational Standards component should prioritize the opportunity to
learn standards in classroom. Consequently, the component focused on teacher development and
qualification for uncertified teachers, textbooks (which were financed directly by counterpart
funds, outside of the project), classroom furniture and equipment, and school-managed renovation
of many of these classrooms.
The difficulties with Proformaqdo resulted from the fact that the original program developed
during preparation did not anticipate the extent of local support needed by teachers, particularly
- 3 -



given that the majority reside and work in somewhat isolated settings, during the certification
program. Consequently, the costs of the program were significantly underestimated during
project preparation. During project implementation, the program was reoriented, which resulted
m an overspending of this subcomponent during implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
SATISFACTORY. The project's development objectives were met as measured by the three key
performance indicators. The first key indicator was to increase enrollment rates of children
attending schools that meet Minimum Operational Standards from an initial estimate of less than
ten percent to over 50 percent in all targeted areas by June 2001. According to the latest project
progress reports, 10,975 classrooms in the North and Center-West Priority Attention Zones were
equipped according to Minimum Operational Standards, representing a total enrollment of
558,447 students, or 41 percent of the children in the targeted areas. The project fell short of
meeting this goal because the initial state of schools' infrastructure and their availability of inputs
was far worse than expected. Such infornation only became available once school level
information was collected, between project approval and the finalization of the Implementation
Manual.
The second key indicator of the project was to increase enrollment rates of children attending
schools with implemented School Development Plans (PDE) from less than two percent to over
50 percent in all participating Priority Attention Zones. Actual enrollment in schools with such
plans exceeded estimates, reaching 1,200,115 students, or 54 percent of primary aged children in
the targeted areas.
The project's third key indicator was to promote the elaboration and implementation of
coordinated municipal/state education action programs in at least half of the participating
municipalities. These Microregion Action Programs combined state-level action programs with
municipal programs to coordinate and prioritize objectives into a single plan at the microregional
level. FUJNDESCOLA I exceeded this goal, as integrated "Microregion Action Programs" were
developed by officials in all ten of the Priority Attention Zones through forums, consisting of
mayors, state Secretaries of Education, representatives of the state-based offices of the Ministry
of Education (which have since been de-activated) and the state President of the National
Association of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME).
Additionally, the project's development objectives envisioned that its actions would lead to an
increase in participation, promotion and graduation rates, and achievement levels in the Priority
Attention Zones. While the project cannot exclusively be credited for changes in those indicators,
it is noteworthy to examine their progress in the project's targeted areas.
A comparison of 4th and 8th grade enrollments in the Priority Attention Zones reveals significant
growth from 1996 to 2000. Total 4th grade enrollments grew by 15.6 percent and 8th grade
enrollments by 33.9 percent in those areas. Enrollment in the entire North region grew by a
slightly higher percentage in both the 4th and 8th grades. In the Center-West Priority Attention
Zone, both 4th and 8th grades outpaced enrollment in the region as a whole. Likewise,
- 4 -



graduation rates in the North and Center-West regions, as measured by the ratio between 8th
grade graduates and 1st grade enrollments, increased significantly between 1997 to 1999. The
ratio climbed from 12 percent to 17 percent in the North, and from 26 percent to 46 percent in the
Center-West, compared to 29 percent to 38 percent in Brazil.
In Brazil, primary level students' achievement levels are measured by the National System for
Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB). Average 4th grade achievement in mathematics and
Portuguese decreased throughout Brazil between 1995 and 1999. Analysis of the declines in test
scores carried out by Brazil's National Institute for Educational Research and Studies suggest that
three factors accounted for the small but significant drop in achievement nationwide: (a) a
dramatic increase in primary school enrollment (Brazil attained universal primary enrollment
during this period) meant that children from the poorest families, with the least amount of social
capital and school-preparedness, attended school for the first time; (b) greater efforts on the part
of local governments to promote slower learners (rather than force them to repeat a grade level);
and (c) changes in the test instrument. Nonetheless, in the North and Center-West regions the
decreases in achievement levels measured by SAEB were lower than the declines for Brazil as a
whole. For example, the decrease in 4th grade Portuguese achievement was 7 percent in the
North and 6.6 percent in the Center-West, compared to the national average of 8.1 percent. In
mathematics, decreases in proficiency were 2.3 percent in the North and 3.2 percent in the
Center-West, compared to 5.2 percent in Brazil.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The three sector issues addressed by FUNDESCOLA I were: improving school quality;
expanding school access; and improving school and system management. The first two project
components, raising schools to minimum operational standards and establishing a school
development process, addressed school quality. The third component, planning and providing
additional school places, was directed toward expanding access, and the fourth component
addressed improvement of educational management and administration.
SATISFACTORY. Raising Schools to Minimum Operational Standards. Brazil's 1996
National Education Law guarantees that every public school in the country meets acceptable
minimum standards. FUJNDESCOLA I attempted to operationalize this concept as a set of
educational materials, teaching staff, equipment, furniture, and facilities that would constitute a
functioning school. In place of the checklist envisioned in the PAD, the School Facilities Survey
became the instrument to measure minimum operational standards. The Ministry helped
municipal and state secretariats of education use this instrument to survey all 4,164 primary
schools in the Priority Attention Zones. The schools were then classified and prioritized
according to their level of need and their readiness to receive inputs. In terms of classroom inputs
and school-managed facilities repairs, the project met all of the goals established in the
implementation manual for the first subcomponent.
The second subcomponent, educating and certifying teachers, addressed the problem of the large
share of uncertified teachers in the targeted areas. The project's goal of offering 25,000 places
through the teacher certification program, Proformaqdo, was met. Because the certification
program is made up of 4 modules, each lasting one semester, only a relatively small share of
teachers who entered the program during project implementation were expected to graduate
- 5 -



before project completion. As of project completion, 1,347 teachers were certified and another
26,025 teachers were enrolled in Proformaqdo and will be completing their certification under the
follow-up operation. Proformafao faced significant delays and difficulties during its initial
stages. The costs of the program were substantially underestimated during project preparation,
resulting overspending of this subcomponent. While the estimated costs in the PAD for
Proformaqdo was $300,000, by project completion, expenditures on this action exceeded $10
million. The underestimation resulted from a restructuring of the original program design in order
to provide local support to the participants and to finance all of the materials and videos. The
revised design followed England's "Open University" model, which entailed providing teachers
with personalized support throughout their certification. The Proforma do team also experienced
difficulties with some municipalities' failure to comply with their participation agreements,
particularly with respect to paying and providing transportation to program tutors. Given the
importance of trained teachers (as required by the National Education Law that was passed into
law in December 1997), FUNDESCOLA I financed these additional costs through reallocation
from other disbursement categories, and the Ministry contributed over $10 million in additional
counterpart funding to cover the difference. In other words, the Ministry demonstrated its
commitment and ownership of Proformaqdo's objective, despite the difficulty that local
government's had to meet their financial obligations. Neither the World Bank nor the Borrower
has an adequate solution to the question of how to leverage greater compliance from local
governments with respect to their obligations when they have no formal agreement with the Bank.
Alternatives are being sought during the preparation of the FUNDESCOLA III, but under all
circumstances, the partners are seeking a resolution that does not have a negative impact on the
fimctioning of schools or the provision of educational services delivered to children.
Regardless of the implementation issues addressed during the execution of Proformaqao, its
visible success has pushed the municipalities into demanding an expansion of the program to
teachers not targeted by the project. Consequently, the Ministry has agreed to fully
institutionalize thev Proformaqdo program, including assuming its costs with reliance on loan
funds, and it anticipates the certification of at least 13,835 lay teachers by December 2001.
The third subcomponent, supplving of basic furniture and equipment to schools, addressed the
inadequate classroom environment learning in terms of furniture and equipment. As stated earlier,
one of the three project development objectives in the PAD was to increase enrollment in schools
meeting Minimum Operational Standards to at least 50 percent in all participating Priority
Attention Zones. By project completion, enrollment in these schools reached 41 percent of the
1.2 million targeted primary students in the targeted areas. The Project's Implementation Manual
modified the target for this component to be more realistic, yet still ambitious. According to the
manual, by project's completion 5,800 primary school classrooms would be equipped according to
the Minimum Operational Standards. In fact, 10,975 classrooms, serving 558,447 students, met
these standards. Difficulties in providing schools with furniture arose in both procurement and
delivery. Many state secretariats had little experience in competitive bidding procedures, and
vendors had problems in meeting the new technical specifications and the project's exigent
prototype testing, causing delays in acquisitions and delivery to school sites. To address the
problem, the Ministry carried out a significant training effort in procurement procedures,
improving the efficiency of the procurement agencies in the states with regard to furniture.
- 6 -



Nonetheless, the major advance in this area is the negotiations with the federal agency that
mandates national standards for a variety of products--INMETRO. In the follow-up operation,
FUNDESCOLA II, this agency has agreed to introduce compulsory standards for any new
student furniture for primary schools (grades 1-8). Any new bidding document for
FUNDESCOLA will require these standards and it will be the responsibility of the vendor to get
INMETRO's stamp of approval.
The fourth and fifth subcomponents promoted the participation of school councils in carrying out
improvement investments and rehabilitation of physical facilities. These subcomponents included
direct financial transfers to schools with more than 20 students and with a school council in place
so they could purchase their own teaching and operational material according to the minimum
operational standards checklist. The goal for this subcomponent--all schools with more than 20
students in the targeted areas to establish a school council and directly purchase teaching and
operational materials--was met. These actions carried out by the school council contributed
tremendously to strengthening institutional capacity and financial autonomy at the school level.
Likewise, the last subcomponent included financing school-managed rehabilitation of physical
facilities that authorized school councils to carry out small and targeted physical repairs and
improvements according to criteria established in the Minimum Operational Standards program.
Implementation and monitoring of this subcomponent was excellent because of the on-line
information system with digitized photographs of each work under implementation. The project's
goal was the rehabilitation of 5,800 classrooms benefiting 400,000 students. The project far
surpassed this goal, repairing 12,616 classrooms benefiting almost 900,000 students.
HIGHLYSATISFACTORY  Establishing a School Development Process. This component
promoted the development of a school-based development program, to be designed and
implemented by a school team consisting of teachers, parents, community, and the local school
council. After identifying school needs, the team prepared and implemented a School
Development Plan (PDE) to improve the school's organization, management, and learning
environment, and to contribute to raising student achievement. Based on the needs identified in
the PDE, the team proposed a School Improvement Subproject (PME), which was then funded by
the project. This component was by far the most successful one of this project, generating much
unanticipated demand on the part of local schools and municipal governments. During project
implementation, the Ministry and Bank team tried to accommodate such demand through the
provision of training to more schools and by financing more School Improvement Subprojects
than originally planned. Thus, this component 's actual cost of $11.5 million was about twice as
high as the appraisal estimate of $5.2 million. Again, like Proformaqao, the Ministry's managed
the additional activities and these additional costs by making adjustments within the loan amount,
and without requiring additional loan funds.
The first subcomponent under this component was the design of School Development Plans. The
project's goal was to have School Development Plans implemented in 401 schools, and the
training of 1,300 school administrators, monitors, and technicians of state and municipal
secretariats in the elaboration and implementation of such plans. By project closing, 1,724
schools had Development Plans in place, and 5,172 administrators, monitors and technicians had
been trained.
-7-



The second subcomponent was the financing of School Improvement Subproiects. School
Improvement Subprojects consisted of the operationalization of a strategy to address needs
identified in the School Development Plans. The project's goal was the implementation of 401
Improvement Plans. By project closing, 1,513 schools had signed agreements and received
resources requested in their Improvement Plans. Those plans were monitored by technical
advisors, who were hired by the project's implementation unit at the Ministry of Education to
assist in the development and implementation of the school development process. Municipal
secretariats were directly responsible for assisting schools in preparing Development Plans and
assessing the proposed Improvement Plans.
A series of World Bank supervision teams visited numerous schools with Development Plans
throughout the project's life, including at completion, and reported that the program was well
implemented and well received by schools and state secretaries of education. Schools with PDEs
appeared to provide a positive and dynamic learning environment where teachers worked
collaboratively with a common and clear objective and placed the focus of instruction on the
student. Teachers and principals reported that the process of preparing a School Development
Plan helped them to identify school performance problems and use resources better. Students
clearly recognized positive changes in their schools and noticed that their parents had become
more involved in school life. The popularity of the School Development Plan was evident in the
rapid expansion of its methodology. There is evidence that parents are actively choosing to
enroll their children in schools with PDEs over other schools. Principals and teachers from
municipal schools quickly demanded and adopted the School Development Plan, originally
targeted to state schools. The program was also expanded to a set of Priority Attention Zones
not originally envisioned in the project. Additionally, five states (Acre, Mato Grosso, Goias,
Tocantins and Ceara) have adopted the program as a model for all schools in their states, and are
financing the expansion with their own resources. The National Institute for Educational
Research carried out an evaluation of the School Development Plan activity in 2000 and found
statistically significant improvements in student learning in PDE versus non PDE schools. Under
the follow-up operation, FUNDESCOLA II, an external group of researchers from Stanford
University is evaluating the implementation and impact of the School Development Plan program.
UNSATISFACTORY Planning and Providing School Places. This component's objective was
to develop school microplanning methodologies to contribute to increased access and student
retention in schools in targeted areas. The microplanning adopted by the project is a combination
of School Mapping and the Geographic Infonnation Systems that support decision makers on the
rationalization of local school networks. The goals for the first subcomponent were the
development and testing of urban and rural microplanning systems and training of municipal and
state education secretaries in the use of microplanning software. Microplanning was initiated in
urban zones of all municipalities in the Priority Attention Zones as a prototype, that included
databases for 1996, 1997 and 1998, and maps that were obtained, converted to digital forms and
structured to be used as Geographic Information Systems. The digital maps, which combine
census and school location data, were introduced for reviewing and updating to municipal and
state education secretaries in 80 municipalities. In rural zones, microplanning was also initiated
- 8 -



but not completed due to the lack of adequate maps of these regions. In June 2001 an agreement
was reached with the Brazilian Census Bureau (IBGE) to produce maps of rural zones for the
Priority Attention Zones of the follow-up operation, FUNDESCOLA II. The training of
municipal and state secretaries of education in microplanning, was not completed because the
adopted microplanning software had its production discontinued during project implementation.
For that reason, the software's substitution and implementation of Microplanning' s final version
was replanned for the follow-up operation.
The second subcomponent was developing and testing standard architectural plans. The goals
included the preparation of architectural plans for new school facilities in each state and the
construction of up to three model schools based on these plans. This subcomponent was partially
implemented, with architectural projects developed for urban schools of 12-, six-, and four-room
schools and rural schools of two and four rooms. However, the resources and time were not
sufficient for the prototypes to be actually built. The fact that these prototype schools were not
built had no negative impact of the project's attainment of its development objectives. Resources
programmed for this subcomponent were reallocated to cover the overruns of other project
components as indicated above.
It is important to point out that the delays in the implementation of this component did not
interfere with the Project's ability to achieve its development objective because the results from
the microplanning and testing of architectural plans were meant to be inputs into the preparation
of the FUNDESCOLA II and III projects rather than time-critical for FUNDESCOLA I. In fact,
the results of the microplanning activity from FUJNDESCOLA I demonstrated a much lower need
for additional school buildings than originally expected. This led to a decision to eliminate school
construction from FUJNDESCOLA III.
SATISFACTORY  Strengthening Education Management and Project Administration. The
fourth and last component of FUNDESCOLA I was designed to increase management capacity at
schools and municipal and state secretariats of education; foster community participation and
support for the project; strengthen national education information systems and programs; and
support project coordination and implementation. The first of five subcomponents was to
strengthen the state and municipal secretariats, enabling them to support the school-based
development process. To this end, the project financed the Municipal Education Secretariats
Support Program (PRASEM). This program began under the Northeast Basic Education Project
III, the precursor of FUNDESCOLA I, in order to disseminate the project concept and objectives
and related legislative reforms to municipal and state secretaries of education. Under
FUNDESCOLA I, ten PRASEM conferences were held, in which 597 state and municipal
secretaries, as well as 202 financial secretaries and 35 mayors were trained in education
legislation, financing and management. PRASEM leadership was also instrumental in developing
a manual and software for public teacher career planning and payment. The career planning
program provided municipal and state secretaries with a coherent strategy to assess and pay
teachers fairly according to their training and experience. The Career Planning Manual was
welcomed by municipal and state education secretaries.
The second subcomponent, providing specialized teaching and learning improvement programs,
-9-



promoted the expansion of Escola Ativa, the rural education program piloted under the Northeast
Basic Education Project III. Modeled after Colombia's Escuela Nueva program, Escola Ativa
features a modular curriculum designed for multi-grade classrooms in remote schools outside the
Priority Attention Zones. The goal for this subcomponent was to extend the program to 210
schools, benefiting 8,400 students in the targeted areas. The program's expansion was very well
received and it reached 943 schools, or four times its original target, and 31,814 students, more
than three times as many students as originally planned. Monthly supervision of Escola A tiva
schools by technical supervisors, as well as visits by the Ministry's staff, revealed enthusiasm for
the program on the part of students, teachers, and parents. Several missions visited Escola Ativa
schools throughout project implementation and reported the program to be well implemented.
School activities were centered on students, and they appeared to enjoy their school experience;
teachers reported a reduction in absenteeism and greater parental participation. Popularity of the
program prompted the Ministry of Education to adopt the program for rural schools nationwide.
Despite the popularity of this program, it should be noted that, as a result of procurement or
delivery delays, Escola A tiva textbooks have often arrived after the school year had begun.
Under the current (follow-on) operation, FUNDESCOLA II, the procurement procedures for
these books are being initiated an additional 6 months earlier.
The third subcomponent, fostering community participation, aimed to inform and mobilize
communities around the objectives and methods of the project. To accomplish this goal, project
communications personnel produced an internet site, videos, monthly newsletters, and trained
journalists in the strategies and objectives of the project. A beneficiary assessment currently being
carried out as part of FUNDESCOLA III preparation will help evaluate the impact of these
actions.
The fourth subcomponent, strengthening national education information systems and programs,
promoted the continued development of Ministry-sponsored programs to measure and improve
school quality. The National System for Basic Education Evaluation (SAEB), which was
refocused and improved under the Northeast Basic Education Project III, continued to evolve into
a state of the art system that measures student achievement in the final grade of each education
cycle. While FUNDESCOLA I supported SAEB's 2001 application, institutionalization of the
assessment system under the Ministry's National Institute for Educational Research and Studies is
expected to occur by 2002. Project goals called for the revision of the assessment system's
curricular reference matrices, and for a quality review of the school census system, conducted
under the Integrated Education System. Both goals were achieved and the Integrated Education
System, which compiles information about individual students at every school in the nation, has
become an important component in the yearly compilation of the Brazilian School Census.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis carried out during the preparation of the FUNDESCOLA Project covered
the full program (consisting of FUJNDESCOLA I, II, and III). The cost-benefit analysis of
FUNDESCOLA was undertaken in the following manner: (i) a flow model was estimated for
each participating microregion; (ii) a historical trend was applied to project how the flow of
students would look without the project; (iii) the impact of the project on this flow was estimated
using the two key variables described above; (iv) the difference between the two flows was taken;
(v) given this difference, the savings in enrollment and increases in academic achievement were
- 1 0 -



calculated ; (vi) these savings and increases were converted into two monetary flows up to the
year 2012 using per student cost and private rate of return to education; and finally (vii) the
internal rates of return for each of the two flows were calculated for five to ten and 15 years of
project life. The assumptions made during the preparation of FUNDESCOLA I have proven to
be consistent with reality, namely that improvements in school quality contribute substantially to
reductions in repetition, making the project cost-effective.  A thorough and independent
cost-benefit analysis of the impact of the school-development process is currently underway with
financing from FUNDESCOLA II. Results should be available by June, 2002.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact.-
SUBSTANTIAL. The project promoted institutional development by acting as an incubator for
innovative programs that are being or have been institutionalized by the Ministry of Education,
State Secretariats of Education, Municipal Secretariats of Education, and schools. The project
directly supported institutional development of municipal and state education systems through the
Microregion Forum program and the Municipal Education Secretariats Support Program
(PRASEM). The Forum provided an environment for defining state and local needs, aggregating
municipal indicators, and establishing benchmarks for sector improvement and monitoring. This
resulted in substantial integration of education policies and initiatives in municipal governments
and helped these secretariats of education organize their administration of schools to better
support school improvement rather than control. The Forum improved local governments'
transparency by consolidating and publishing each municipality's revenues and expenditures on
education services. Finally, the Forum increased the commitment on the part of municipal
education secretariats to FUNDESCOLA-type goals and objectives. The PRASEM contributed
significantly to municipal institutional development goals as well. As discussed above, PRASEM
is an intensive seminar series served all of the targeted municipalities in the Priority Attention
Zones of the project, as well as the overwhelming majority of municipalities in the 10 states
served by the project. An evaluation of the programn by the United Nations Development
Program concluded that PRASEM contributed substantially to the sector management capacities
and sector planning skills of the chief education officers (Secretaries of Education) of these
hundreds of municipalities. The project also had a significant impact on institutional development
of hundreds of schools. The chief examples of this is the utilization of school strategic planning in
the School Development Plan program. In addition, several states and large municipalities have
expanded the FUNDESCOLA-type School Development Plan approach to all of their schools.
Other evidence of institutional development impact can be found in the student assessment
systems financed by FUNDESCOLA through 2001 and to be integrated into the Ministry of
Education by 2002. The Ministry expects to integrate the Proformaaiio and Escola Ativa
programs into its regular operations.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Noncompliance of state and municipal governments. This factor is outside the control of the
implementing agency. Brazil's Fiscal Responsibility Law prohibits the transfer of federal funds to
state and municipal governments that are out of compliance (inadimplente) with fiscal and legal
- 1 1 -



requirements. Requirements for cornpliance include the completion of ten documents and
certifications confirming fiscal solvency and legal capacity. The decentralization of school
financing under the project, while promoting greater local autonomy, was slowed by
noncompliance. Transfer of funds for locally managed programs was often delayed for two to
three months while compliance issues were addressed.
Currency Fluctuation. The exchange rate of the real to the dollar at the outset of project
implementation was 1.14:1. By project closing, the rate had climbed to 2.3:1, a 75 percent
change. Crises in Asia and Russia affected the Brazilian economy and currency; in January 1999
the government adopted a floating exchange rate. Economic crisis in Argentina in 2001 also
placed downward pressure on the value of the real. While currency stability during the first half
of project implementation was a positive factor, increasing fluctuation and devaluation became a
problem during the second half. Currency differences between the dollar and the real affected
project implementation since the Bank's commitment charge increased with each depreciation of
the real and because the Government's counterpart contribution had to increase in terms of the
local currently to correspond to the agreed percentage of the Loan Agreement.
Political Changes. The project placed a great deal of emphasis on building capacity at the local
level. During project implementation, 70 percent of mayors in the areas attended to by the project
were replaced. New mayors and mtnicipal education secretaries had to be trained in project
concepts and methodologies.
5.2 Factors generallv siubject to government control:
Political Climate for Education Reform. Project planning and implementation were positively
influenced by education reforms begun by the Cardoso Administration in 1995. Continuation in
office of the President and Minister of Education for the duration of the project provided a stable
political climate and continued support. The administration's focus on the improvement of
primary education aligned with project objectives and several political reforms strengthened
implementation. Reforms included: (1) approval of the 1996 National Education Law, which
redefined the educational roles and responsibilities of each government level; (2) creation of the
Fund for the Development of Fundamental Education and Valorization of Teachers, which
guaranteed minimum per student expenditures for all primary students of R$333 (about US$133);
(3) increased financial autonomy at the school level; and (4) improvement in the assessment of
schocl quality and student achievement with the student assessment system.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Beneficiary Participation. Schools and municipalities were involved in almost every aspect of
the project. The Priority Attention Zone model promoted collaboration between states and
municipalities and established municipal education secretaries and mayors as important actors in
project implementation. The program to support Municipal Education Secretariats reinforced
collaboration and disseminated project information to municipalities. Programs such as the
School Development and Improvement Plans, and the School-Based Rehabilitation promoted
planning, decision making, and fiscal responsibility at the local level. The School Development
Plan and Escola Ativa programs also increased parental participation in schools. Word of mouth
about these programs reached beyond the original targeted areas, and schools and parents
requested their expansion to new areas. Observations by Bank and Government staff found that
- 12 -



schools and communities developed a sense of ownership of the new programs, an important
element in the long-term sustainability of project activities.
Improved Monitoring of Project. A computerized planning and monitoring system monitored the
financial side of the project, providing Ministry staff with up-to-date information on transfers to
schools for all of the programs financed by the project. The Ministry also developed an on-line
supervision system which helps the project assure the quality of the school managed rehabilitation
activity. Finally, the National Institute for Educational Research and Studies contributed to the
measurement of project quality with the collection of longitudinal data to gauge the effectiveness
of the School Development Plan program.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
With the exception of the Proformaado program and the establishment of School Development
Plans, which implemented more activities than planned, or which experienced cost overruns,
project execution followed projections closely. Moreover, nearly all of the project's physical
implementation targets were attained or substantially exceeded. Partly to finance these additional
physical targets and cover underestimated costs, the Ministry of Education contributed an
additional $13 million of counterpart funds resulting in a final project cost of $138 million. With
respect to the IBRD loan for the FUNDESCOLA I project, 100 percent was disbursed by the
closing date.
Both the Ministry of Education and the Bank operations staff in Brasilia agreed that procurement
and disbursement procedures and performance improved substantially from NEBE III to
FUNDESCOLA I. One reason for this improvement was the significant accumulated experience
and proficiency among the project's financial staff. At the state level, extensive training in
procurement procedures at the state-based Project Executive Coordination has resulted in more
efficient acquisition of goods and services. Despite the difficulty that some state officials
experienced in completing procurement forms in English, it has become clear that a "culture of
implementation" at the state level was developed, in which rigorous shopping and bidding
requirements have begun to replace more traditional methods of awarding contracts.
Despite improved financial management under FUNDESCOLA I, disbursement delays
occasionally slowed project implementation. Reasons for these delays included: turnover of Bank
disbursement staff in Brasilia, the Bank's slowness in adjusting the disbursement system to reflect
an agreed reallocation of the loan proceeds, difficulties that the UNDP had (the UNDP was the
Borrower's executing agency for activities implemented directly by the DGP) in following
appropriate procurement procedures, and issues of noncompliance on the part of state and
municipal governments. Closer monitoring and improved communications between the Borrower
and the Bank successfully addressed the problems with disbursement delays. Regarding UNDP,
in mid-2000 the Bank procurement team in Brasilia and the UNDP organized a working group to
solve all differences in understanding between UNDP procedures and Bank procurement
guidelines. This arrangement has already made substantial progress towards solving any
misunderstandings or differences between the two international agencies and assures that
procurement procedures detailed in the Loan Agreements are being followed. Finally, issues
related to the non-compliance of local governments, which blocks transfers of funds to municipal
or state schools in a given jurisdiction are caused by factors beyond the control of the project.
- 13-



Specifically when a municipality or state government is overdue on any obligation to the federal
government, the "Law of Fiscal Responsibility" (Law Complementar 101/2000, approved May
2000) bars transfers of funds from any federal ministry or agency to that local government (or
entities for which it is legally responsible, as in the case of schools) until the obligation is met.
Consequently, the only way FUNDESCOLA has found to manage this issue is by preparing, in
advance, all necessary documentation and authorizations for the transfer to be made, monitoring
the non-compliance status on a regular basis, and then proceeding immediately with the transfer as
soon as the status turns from "non-compliance" to "compliance."
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
LIKELY. A number of project activities have been institutionalized at the state and federal levels.
As mentioned earlier, the School Development Plan program has been adopted by several states in
all their schools, under the states' own financing. The National System for Basic Education
Evaluation and the Integrated Education Information System will be fully integrated into the
Ministry by 2002. Additionally, the Ministry intends to incorporate the Proformaaio and Escola
Ativa programs into its regular operations. Increased management capacity and community
involvement through the school-based programs should also act to sustain project activities, as
municipalities become more aware of their rights and responsibilities and develop channels
through which to act on them.
The follow-up operation, FUNDESCOLA II, implemented in 1999, is scheduled to close in June
2004. The project continues the basic components of FUNDESCOLA I in an expanded target
area, along with the addition of Promoting Communication and Social Mobilization as a separate
component. FUNDESCOLA III, currently under preparation, is incorporating lessons learned
during the implementation of the two previous operations while still promoting the concept of
increased school autonomy and minimum operation standards in the classroom.
The unknown variable in project sustainability is the possibility of political or economic instability.
A change in political leadership after national elections in October 2002 may diminish federal
commitment to project objectives and could affect national programs. Economic instability,
particularly resulting from the international recession that seems to be at the outset, could
diminish the government's ability to continue activities related to the project, and could weaken
parents' resolve to forego possible earnings while sending their children to school.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As stated earlier, several of the activities financed by the project are being incorporated into the
Ministry of Education and are expected to be part of its regular operations. There has been close
collaboration between the project's implementation unit and other Ministry's office, including the
participation of the project's director in the Minister's frequent meetings with his line staff.
Additionally, project activities have been highly participatory and have generated ownership at the
municipal, state, and school level, and at the school level. Finally, the project is being followed by
two operations, with similar activities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
- 14 -



Bank
7.] Lending:
Highly Satisfactory. Project planning incorporated lessons learned from the project's
predecessor, NEBE III, and accurately assessed the management capacity of the implementing
agency. Project planning was informed by the results of A Call to Action and project components
identified and addressed the key issues in improving the provision of primary education in the
neediest regions of Brazil.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank maintained a positive relationship with the borrower and implementing
agency, and supervision missions aided the implementing agency in identifying problems and
refocusing project objectives. Despite the task manager's transfer back to headquarters from his
post in Brasilia during the initial stages of the project, local Bank staff maintained close
communication with the implementing agency. Additionally, the presence of the CMUJ in Brasilia
provided the Borrower with more procurement support.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Well defined and well targeted activities, focus on project objectives, and
appropriate support toward their completion fostered a positive relationship between Bank and
Borrower and ultimately led to a timely and successful completion of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The quality of the federal and state data was excellent for planning purposes.
Likewise, municipal data was good at the macro level, but not available at the school level until
project implementation. For that reason, a few of the project indicators were not realistic.
Notwithstanding, between the period of project approval and the finalization of the
Implementation Manual, school level data was collected and monitoring indicators were
appropriately revised to reflect the new information. These revised indicators, which were
specified in the Implementation Manual, were realistic, consistent with the objectives set out in
the PAD, and set clear standards for accountability within the project's implementation team.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Highly Satisfactory. The December 1996 Education Law and a national focus on primary
education provided strong support effective implementation. Education remained a key area of
the Cardoso administration and the Minister of Education and his team were highly involved in
supporting and promoting the concepts implemented by the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Professionalism and a high level of management capacity contributed to satisfactory
project implementation. The implementation unit was particularly strong in the areas of financing
and supervision. Project implementation data were up-to-date and available to project staff. Yet
use of data was not uniform across the coordination units. The overlapping schedule of the
follow-up operation, FUNDESCOLA [I, made the measurement of project results and
expenditures for the ICR more complicated and time consuming.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 15 -



Highly Satisfactory. Government support, comprehensive planning, consistent evaluation, and
substantial achievement of project objectives merited a highly satisfactory rating overall for this
indicator.
8. Lessons Learned
Working with local governments. State and municipal governments, rather than the Ministry of
Education, are directly responsible for delivering basic education in Brazil, thus making them
partners in implementing projects such as FUNDESCOLA I. Recognizing this fact during project
design and implementation ensured the political support for the project's goals on the part of local
governments. The project's direct work with municipalities and schools through the PRASEM
program and the microregional fora demonstrated the importance and efficacy of bottom-up
policies. It also ensured that project implementation responded to the changing needs of the
municipalities. Moreover, itremoved political partisanship from the project's decisionmaking
processes, thus increasing the likelihood of sustainability. Finally, by working with groups of
neighboring municipalities in the Priority Attention Zones, rather than with individual
municipalities, the project encouraged municipal and state governments to be more transparent
with one another, to collaborate, and to seek joint solutions to their educational problems.
School level interventions. Empowering schools through direct interventions was designed to
generate greater school commitment to the project's goals and greater chances of success. The
School Development Plan required the school community to conduct a complete diagnosis of its
problems and prepare a strategy to address those. Specific actions of that strategy were then
financed with funds from the School Improvement Subprojects. An initial evaluation of 158
schools, including 55 schools with the PDE intervention and the remainder without PDEs,
concluded that students enrolled in schools with PDEs tend to perform better on assessment tests.
The research shows that those students also perform better with respect to other dependent
variables such as student's report card scores and student promotion rate (both based on teacher's
own assessment of student achievement rather than the standardized tests).
The necessity to define criteria and procedures to expand the project during its
preparation. The popularity of several of FUNDESCOLA I's programs presented the
Government with a new dilemma: how to manage success. The project's design did not delineate
explicit strategies for expanding the project, so expansion occurred on an ad hoc basis. In some
cases, as with the expansion of the School Development Plan program to new Priority Attention
Zones, the project brought its full training and financial resources to bear. In other cases, such as
the adoption of the School Development Plan program by state education secretariats, the
Government could offer only advice and some technical assistance. In still other situations, as
with the request by schools outside the project's scope for assistance in implementing Escola
Ativa, the Government simply had to refuse assistance due to financial constraints. In response to
these issues, the PAD for FUNDESCOLA II addresses expansion with more explicit procedures
and criteria.
Importance of Long-Term Programs. FUNDESCOLA I was prepared on the basis of
experience of the NEBE II project, incorporating lessons learned under that project and
continuing to support successful initiatives. Likewise, FUNDESCOLA II and III, the follow-up
- 16-



operations to this project, continue building on the successes of previous operations. The
preparation of the FUNDESCOLA Program as three different projects gave the Bank and the
Borrower greater flexibility to respond to emerging and/or not anticipated needs of the sector, has
enabled better targeting of beneficiaries, and has increased the likelihood of the project's actions
being sustained after the Program ends. Given the time necessary to implement education
changes that have a real impact in the classroom, which significantly contrasts with the high
turnover of key government decision-makers, the long-term strategy of a Program allows for
capacity building among technical people and at the local levels of Government. Finally, the long
and overlapping implementation schedule should provide sufficient time for innovative programs
to take root, flourish, and become institutionalized.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1) Introduction
This report aims to complement the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of
FUNDESCOLA I by providing a qualitative and analytic summary of the project's planning and
implementation, focusing on the relationships between FUNDESCOLA I, II, and III within the
present educational scenario. The relationship between these and previous World Bank financed
projects is also addressed.
This document describes FUNDESCOLA I's context and activities, based on specific forms
completed by the Central Project Coordination Unit (DGP) of FUNDESCOLA. The World
Bank's detailed analysis in the ICR should supplement the internal project analysis regarding
achievement of project targets, financial performance, and implementation of components.
Though this report tries to provide a broad view of the Project, treating it as the first stage of a
large scale Program, it remains limited to the performance of FUNDESCOLA I. It assumes that
the other stages of the Program (FUNDESCOLA II - under implementation; FUNDESCOLA III
- under preparation) should be later analyzed within their specific reports.
- 17 -



2) Positive outcomes
The most outstanding aspect of FUNDESCOLA I is its innovative design as the first and decisive
step in the implementation of the FtUNDESCOLA Program. FUNDESCOLA I emphasizes that
school management is critical to the viability and consolidation of the ongoing educational
reforms in Brazil.
Reflecting the importance of this aspect of the program, the Ministry of Education has
implemented a new model for its basic education projects, based on political context, as well as a
new constitutional and legal rule to manage basic education. The model is also based on the
experiences gained from the implementation of the Second and Third Northeast Basic Education
Projects (Projeto Nordeste), which were derived not only from the implementation and auditing
reports, but also from a series of studies carried out during the project's implementation
(published as "A Call to Action" in 1996).
The FUNDESCOLA program aims to operationalize and complement the Government's recent
education reforms by presenting new strategies, which are locally oriented and concentrated on
product development. This approach breaks with the way projects had previously been carried
out, where most were considered to be an additional source of funds to meet fragmented
demands.
The FUNDESCOLA program has initiated a new phase for the design and implementation of
basic education projects from the Ministry of Education (MEG): the design of the project's phases
(as recommended by COFIEX) will be carried out concurrently with its implementation and by the
same team. This seems extremely appropriate to the present political and economic context (of
stability), as well as to the educational context (of rapid changes, e.g. in the mechanisms of
financing basic education). In this way, FUNDESCOLA I has benefited from the lessons learned
during the Northeast Project and has influenced the dynamic planning process of FUNDESCOLA
II, which was an enriching process of learning, adjusting, and changing course.
The FUNDESCOLA program emphasizes and implements educational management at the school
level. Already an issue in the Northeast Project, educational management was only dealt with
then at the system level (State/Municipal), which is also present in FUNDESCOLA through the
establishment of Priority Attention Zones (micro-regions defined by the IBGE). In addition,
FUNDESCOLA has developed a decision-making forum, consisting of mayors and State
Secretaries of Education, to select the schools that will benefit from the Project's investments.
It is the emphasis on school management that distinguishes FUNDESCOLA from former
initiatives. This is particularly true for the first project, which maintains its "focus on the school"
by designing strategies, applying tools, and implementing actions geared towards serving the
school unit directly. This approach, aside from its more efficient allocation of resources, has
started to show its effectiveness, as reflected in the measures of educational outcomes.
One of the characteristics of FUNDESCOLA I, in the context of the FUNDESCOLA Program, is
that it was a pilot project in the North and Center -West regions. In fact, some of the important
initiatives of FUNDESCOLA such as Escola Ativa and PDE, were piloted on a small scale in the
Northeast Region as part of the Northeast Basic Education Project (NEBE II and III). However,
it was in FUNDESCOLA that these pioneering activities were first brought to scale in the selected
municipalities. It is important to mention that, before the project's implementation, some states
- 18-



had already adopted a systematic allocation of funds directly to the schools. Moreover,
FUNDESCOLA I had initiated the implementation of the concept of "Raising Schools to
Minimum Operation Standards", which called for each school to have at least the minimum of
pedagogical resources, sufficient materials, appropriate facilities, and qualified teachers, and was
piloted in the states of Mato-Grosso do Sul and Goias.
Moreover, within the Secretariats of Education, some actions that had been initiated by the
Northeast Basic Education Projects in 1996 have been expanded to the North and Center-West
regions, for instance PRASEM (Municipal Education Secretariats Support Program) under the
FUNDESCOLA Project. PRASEM has been expanded to all municipalities, and the SIIG
(Integrated Management Infornation System) has reached some of the states in the beneficiary
regions.
Regarding the principles by which the Project is managed, these were the major gains:
a) Effectiveness
FUNDESCOLA's actions geared towards strengthening school management were generally
successful. The schools that have adopted the management and pedagogical strategies
recommended and monitored by FUNDESCOLA have shown positive results. The
implementation of the School Development Plan (PDE) in urban schools has contributed to better
school organization, as well as to improvements in community participation in school activities.
These developments may also be related to learning improvements already being observed in the
beneficiary schools. In the rural schools, the Escola Ativa strategy has had positive effects on the
behavior and attitudes not only of the students, but also of teachers and parents.
The success of both strategies was reflected in the fact that some states and municipalities
surpassed their expected targets. Furthermore, there was an expansion of some programs beyond
the originally targeted areas.
b) Equity
As previously mentioned, FUNDESCOLA I was the first to initiate and implement the concept of
"raising schools to minimum operational standards". This unprecedented initiative was focused on
dealing with a critical aspect of the Brazilian educational system: inequity in the provision of
educational services.
The reforms at the classroom level carried out by FUNDESCOLA have proven to be more
efficient than those implemented by the Education Secretariats in former projects, for the
following reasons: a) reforms are based on the School Facilities Survey, which has technically
identified the school needs relative to the Minimum Standards; b) target areas were prioritized as
ZAPs by their respective forums; c) activities were contracted out and monitored by the School
Councils; and d) technical assistance was provided by FUNDESCOLA supervisors.
Even though the degree of expansion of this initiative was smaller than those of previous
administrations, the results were significant. The results were particularly positive when the states
and municipalities complemented the resources so that they would reach the entire school, rather
than individual classrooms.
Another important initiative to reduce the inequality of school inputs was the provision of basic
- 19 -



furniture and equipment for the classroom. The State Secretariats, using the School Facilities
Survey, were in charge of the bidding process to supply operational materials for teachers and
students, and the municipal administration was responsible for the product's delivery and receipt in
the municipal schools. FUNDESCOLA promoted quality control in goods' specification, not only
in the manufacturing process, but also upon receipt of the products. It is important to point out
that this initiative has expanded to the vendors and to the entities responsible for the goods'
certification, with the expectation of establishing quality standards.
c) Alignment
There is a strong degree of alignment between FUNDESCOLA I and the MEC's policies and
programs that directly support schools (e.g., PDDE, PNLD, PCN) and local initiatives that
strengthen school autonomy. Similarly, it is noteworthy that the project also complements recent
legislation, particularly the National Education Law (LDB) and the Fund for the Development and
Maintenance of Basic Education and Teacher Valorization (FUNDEF), which focus on
municipalities for the provision of public basic education services in the country.
Likewise, the ongoing expansion of the Municipal Education Secretariats Support Program
(PRASEM) and the launching of ProformaSdo have contributed to compliance of legislation. The
former is an on-site management training program, and the latter a distance learning program for
teacher training; both meet the demands of a growing number of professionals.
Both programs have fostered important partnerships not only within the constitutional limits of
MEC, but also with governmental and non-governmental organizations. PRASEM enabled better
integration with the National Education Development Fund (FNDE), improved the dialogue
between UNDIME and UNICEF, and strengthened the ties with the community by promoting the
participation of the FUNDEF's councils in the training program. After being piloted under
FUNDESCOLA, Proformaqdo continued under the coordination of the Secretariat of Distance
Education (SEED) and the MEC. Even during its pilot phase, Proforma;do began to show
potential as an important tool in teacher certification at the "magisterio" level (to teach the first
four grades of primary school) and for lay teachers in the beneficiary regions.
FUNDESCOLA I also provided financial support to INEP/MEC for the improvement and
consolidation of their institutional systems for evaluating students' learning outcomes in basic
education (SAEB), as well as their systems for conducting the school census (SIED).
3) Main Problems
Even though the program was innovative, the changes promoted by the project were met almost
entirely without resistance from the participants, especially at the municipal level. The project's
overall planning was generally well received by the participant municipalities, as evidenced at the
Project Launching Seminar. The conceptual and operational changes in the Northeast Basic
Education Project were not initially understood by some state governments, whose opinions were
based on the experience the Northeast states had with the former project.
The main problems were related to the management and operation and surfaced during the
project's implementation. They are summarized in the four following groups.
The most frequent problem faced by the project coordination teams concerned the state and
municipal structures that support the project's implementation. This problem tends to be bigger
- 20 -



than those identified at the school level. While high turnover of personnel, especially in municipal
schools, has been identified as a factor that has reduced the project's impact, the primary
obstacles to project implementation were the lack of technicians and poor operating conditions in
the State and Municipal Secretariats that were supposed to support and direct the schools. In
fact, the insufficient number of educational planning technicians was identified as the main reason
for the failure to carry out micro planning training.
The second group of problems is related to the bidding processes, particularly for the
procurement of school equipment, which have included the contractors, the company responsible
for the quality standards, the executing agencies, and the financial agency (the World Bank).
Generally, these processes were delayed in all phases of procurement. The furniture industry was
responsible for most of the delays because it was not prepared to meet the new technical
requirements. The IPT caused the next most delays: it did not have enough personnel to analyze
the models and samples (which had to be resubmitted if the specifications were not met). Also, the
State Secretariats of Education, responsible for the procurement, in many instances either had not
prioritized the bidding processes, or had problems following the rules of the borrowing contract.
In addition, the World Bank would sometimes postpone the "no objection". Finally, the Municipal
Secretariats were not available very often to transport the purchased goods to schools in due time.
In sum, as a result of the frequent and sequential delays, many times the furniture and equipment
would arrive at the schools long after the changes in the classrooms had been concluded.
A set of problems not directly attached to FUNDESCOLA I, but which are common to the
transfer of funds from the federal government to the states and municipalities (and their schools),
comes from the breach of contract by the implementing agencies. When a state or a municipality is
being held accountable, or is not duly allocating federal funds, an impediment to receive new
transfers arises. This problem had occurred in previous projects and continued to occur in
FUNDESCOLA I.
Finally, despite the constant improvements since the Northeast Project in project monitoring by
the Central Project Coordination Unit (DGP), FUNDESCOLA still does not have a
technologically developed and integrated information system that allows for the fast and reliable
creation of management reports about the project 's development.
Because of the Project's complexity and scope, the systems made available during
FUNDESCOLA are widely diverse in terns of details and structure. This diversity manifests itself
in detailed versions of some actions, but short versions of others. It allows computerized
processing of some data or information, but, in other instances, it allows only for manual data
cross-checking. Also, the identification of actions financed by different loan contracts is slow and
inaccurate. In sum, there were difficulties in aggregating data and monitoring the project as a
whole.
4) Main implemented solutions
The main difficulties in the implementation of FUNDESCOLA I can be overcome within the
project itself or during subsequent projects. In fact, the continuous improvement of actions and
initiatives is part of the basic premise of the FUNDESCOLA Program. As such, this report
examines how each project deals or intends to deal with the most important questions that have
- 21 -



emerged since the start of the Program's implementation.
- 22 -



First, FUNDESCOLA is trying to assist the implementing agencies to become more involved and
engaged in the project's actions. This is done by means of training, technical meetings,
workshops, and events that focus on their level of responsibility. The Seminarios de Calibraao
and the PRAZAP's are noteworthy within this context.
Moreover, the Central Project Coordination Unit (DGP) of FUNDESCOLA I has been promoting
the training of technical teams from the State Based Project Executive Coordination (COEP),
School Development Groups (GDE), and also from other sectors of the Secretariats of Education,
so that they can act more effectively: a) when supporting schools with PDE, PME, PAPE, Escola
Ativa and PDDE; b) by using the available data from the LSE to support its own policies; c) in
the management and accountability of the funds transferred to schools; d) in the project
management at the state level; e) in carrying out the bidding processes according to World Bank
rules.
In addition, considering the strong expansion of the PDE and Escola Ativa in some states, the
DGP has increased the number of technical assistants and monitors to support such initiatives.
However, there is another dimension to the problem that subsequent projects will need to deal
with: the integration of actions financed by FUNDESCOLA with the processes of the
Secretariats. We understand that the Secretariats respond in a different way to the project; some
demonstrate greater interest and capacity to adopt FUNDESCOLA's strategies within their
policies than others. The Program treats the Secretariats that support FUNDESCOLA differently,
particularly in the beginning of FUTNDESCOLA II and during the preparation of FUNDESCOLA
III. FUNDESCOLA establishes cooperation agreements with these Secretariats and provides
technical cooperation by means of a strategic planning process.
Another aspect, which has been constantly improved, is the specification for classroom furniture.
Initially, the project demanded a review of the technical specifications and purchasing process. It
also promoted increased involvement of the implementers not only at the receiving end, but also
by generating a change in the contract with the IPT. This change brought about the creation of an
exclusive team to meet the demands of FUNDESCOLA, the issuance of papers to expedite the
process, and monitoring of the production line and segregation of samples in all the factories. The
next phase, to be implemented by FUNDESCOLA II, will deal with INMETRO's certification of
the student set, guaranteeing a specific quality standard at the national level.
With respect to the minimum standards, there are two noteworthy activities that FUNDESCOLA
II is implementing: a) the review and improvement of the LSE, including a new round with visual
reading of forms, review of the technical and classification criteria, redefinition of the reports to
assess schools according to minimum standards, etc ...; b) the implementation of a pilot program
for School Preservation, including booklets and orientation materials for teachers and students.
5) Lessons Learned
The experiences of the team responsible for FUNDESCOLA I's design and implementation have
shed light on some of the project's assumptions. The team has also been raising questions that
were not previously considered, but are extremely important for defining subsequent projects and
guaranteeing the continuity and sustainability of their actions. This chapter presents the main
conclusions derived from the implementation of FUNDESCOLA I.
- 23 -



The project's results are visible in the schools. The educational data and indicators
available in Brazil today allow for measuring the improvements in schools, with respect to
the project's contributions. Moreover, the ongoing testimonials, visits, reports, studies,
and research reveal the management and, in many instances, pedagogic changes
experienced by the participating schools. Despite significant levels of skepticism, the
project has even obtained surprisingly positive results in the multi-grade rural schools
(possibly the neediest in Brazil).
*     Technical assistance to the schools is essential to the project's success. Among all the
interventions financed by the project, the orientation, follow-up, and support provided by
the technical assistants, monitors, supervisors, whether from FUNDESCOLA or the
Secretariats of Education, are considered necessary conditions for the school team to
initiate and develop their tasks assigned by the project.
*     The schools respond to management changes more rapidly than the Secretariats of
Education. The project design has been carried out with this assumption. It has become
evident that the Secretariats of Education have difficulties with following up on schools
that implement the project's strategies. In some cases, this situation motivates the
Secretariats, and they organize themselves differently in order to follow the schools'
dynamics. Further, they have volunteered to expand the actions to other schools and, in
some cases, make these actions universal.
*     The institutional and political capacity varies among the Secretariats of Education. There
are many explanatations for how an organization responds to external forces. In the case
of FUNDESCOLA, there are two sources of "pressure" for changes to occur in the
Secretariats of Education: a) school autonomy, as previously mentioned; b) project norms
and guidelines, which specify minimum operational and technical conditions for the
project to be implemented. The response from the Secretariats of Education varies
significantly, depending on the managerial capacity of a particular organization. The
changes in the Secretariat's teams may affect the project's implementation. Since the
duration of the FUNDESCOLA program lasts longer than a state or municipal political
term, new possibilities for participation arise.
Most Secretariats of Education have limited capaciy to carry out a process of school
improvement. The majority of the Secretariats of Education, due to historical and
administrative characteristics, are not adequately equipped to manage a school system.
Generally, system management is divided by function (planning, personnel, finance,
educational, material, etc ...), which does not provide a broad view of the school as a
social organization receiving social services. The Secretariat's technical teams experienced
difficulties in absorbing some of the proposed planning mechanisms for their school
networks. They also had difficulty with the lack of monitoring tools to measure the
school condition (in terms of inputs, processes and results). FUNDESCOLA I did not
stop serving these states and municipalities, but instead promoted technical support so that
all could benefit from the first phase of the Program. That said, the persistence of such
difficulties deserves attention from subsequent projects.
- 24 -



*     The sustainability of a school improvement process depends on the formal commitment
by the Secretariats to include this process in their daily activities. The institutional
decision to adopt the strategies recommended by FUNDESCOLA I, as well as to
incorporate or transform them into policy, requires an administrator with a vision and
strong leadership capacity. This commitment should be reflected in actions and measures,
which exceed the limits of the administrator's term. Authority should be given to school
principals, and the community should be involved in the decisions that affect the school
units. FUNDESCOLA I and FUNDESCOLA II deal with this aspect when selecting states
and municipalities as partners.
*     Establishing a culture of quality for minimum school inputs requires integrated actions
within the client-vendor chain. The provision of high quality school furniture and
equipment is not limited to the specifications in the procurement process. Beneficiaries
must be informed and aware of the short and long term advantages of providing schools
with goods that meet the user's demands; equally, the standardization and certification of
products and manufacturers is necessary to guarantee a regular and adequate supply.
FUNDESCOLA I has initiated the standardization and quality control process for school
furniture, which will be extended to subsequent projects by training and guiding the
buyers, carrying out anthropometrical studies, and promoting a review of the technical
standards that regulate the sector.
6) Conclusions and Recommendations
FUNDESCOLA has satisfied its objective to launch a school-centered approach to school
management. It has tested, developed, and applied tools and strategies that have brought about
significant changes in the way schools are managed, how some of their inputs are acquired and
produced, how teachers are qualified, and, in some cases, how the teaching -learning process is
developed. Additionally, it has provided education managers with opportunities to update their
skills, as well as to participate in training in the new ways the state and municipal systems work
and cooperate. In sum, the project has enabled a significant number of the people, who are
responsible for providing basic education in the two least developed regions of the country, to
improve the quality of their schools and, consequently, the quality of education.
Product expansion, such as in the case of the School Development Plan (PDE) and the Escola
Ativa, represents the potential of the strategies proposed by the project. This expansion is a
component of FUNDESCOLA II, which, aside from introducing a new PAZ, will serve the
Northeast Region in the same capacity.
At the same time, the development of the model requires that the intervention within the schools
be broader and deeper. Support for the school projects resulting from the PDE should be
extended for a longer period of time. Also, the concept of minimum standards should be applied
to other environments and school inputs, including new teaching/learning strategies to support
teachers in the classroom. These initiatives have been designed and implemented, some by
FUNDESCOLA II, others by FUNDESCOLA III.
However, as identified in the first project, all of these activities can only be developed and
- 25 -



sustained if they are institutionally incorporated and consolidated. In other words, the
sustainability of the FUNDESCOLA Program depends on the institutionalization of its strategies,
tools, and products, and the success of translating them into educational policies.
The experience gained with FUNDESCOLA shows that the greatest challenge for subsequent
projects will be to develop mechanisms and systems for the public (federal, state and municipal
governments), private (manufactures of school inputs: books, furniture, etc...), and
non-governmental (entities representing municipal and states education administrators) sectors
that will guarantee the progress and continuous improvement of the actions prescribed and
financed by the Program.
In sum, it would be the role of the state and municipal partner-governments to implement systems
and mechanisms for planning, financing, monitoring, and evaluating their school networks, within
the models defined by the Program. These partners would become examples of the comprehensive
adoption of the model to strengthen schools.
It would be the role of the Federal government, through the Ministry of Education, to create a
formal structure of institutional arrangements that would guarantee the expansion and progress of
the Program's actions to the non-participant states and municipalities. Moreover, federal
regulatory entities would play an important role in guaranteeing the quality of specific educational
inputs produced by the private sector.
Finally, non-governmental organizations such as UNDIME, in partnership with MEC, would be
responsible for the continuity and expansion of the refresher courses and training for the municipal
administrators, mayors, and the community. The courses and training would address legislation
and basic education finance and management, as described in the beginning of FUNDESCOLA I
and in the development of FUNDESCOLA II.
In this way, aside from retaining the original features of the Program (its focus, scope, and
technical and administrative limitations pertinent to the program's own creation), other
possibilities exist to expand the Program's gains to a larger number of beneficiaries.
The completion of FUNDESCOLA I has generated a demand for the expansion, deepening, and
consolidation of its achievements. Subsequent projects must balance these dimensions, which
may conflict, but are essential to the Program's success.
Antonio Augusto de Almeida Neto
Coordenador Tecnico do Programa FUNDESCOLA
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
_ ndicatorlMatrix                  Projected In last PSR                 ActuaVLatest Estimate
1. Increase enrollment rates in schools that Over 50% in participating Priority Attenfion   41% of children in schools equipped with
meet minimum operational standards.   Zones                                 minimum operational standards
2. Increase enrollment rates in schools with  Over 50% in participating Priority Attenbon   54% of children in schools with School
implemented Schooi Development Plans.   Zones                                Devebpment Plans
3. Elaboration and implementation of  At least 50% of participating municipalities   100% participation.
coordinated municipalstate education action
programs.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Schools with Minimum Operational
Standards (MOS)
1.1 Survey of physical infrastructure in  all primary schools in Priority Attenton Zones 4,164 schools (100%)
primary schools of North and Center-West
1.2 Places offered for training of lay teachers 25,000                      27,372
1.3 Primary school classrooms in Priority   5,800                           10,975
Attention Zones equipped according to MOS
1.4 Primary schools with more than 20  100%                                 95.6%
students receiving cash transfers to carry out
small maintenance
1.5 Primary classrooms of the Priority  5,800                               12,616
Attention Zones prepared to receive fumiture
under Minimum Operational Standards
2. Establishing a School Development
Process
2.1 Schools in Pority Attention Zones with 401                               1,724
school development plan implemented
2.2 School Improvement Subprojects (PME) 401                                 1,513
implemented in Priority Attention Zones
3. School places provided
3.1 Urban and rural microplanning systems  100%                              50% (urban zones)
developed and tested
3.2 Architectural projects elaborated and    10 states                       100%
development
3.3 Methodology for testing model     elaborated                             0%
architectural projects
4. Strengthening education management
and project administration
4.1 State and municipal decision-makers    no specific target set            1,285 key decision-makers trained (including
informed about education reforms taking                                      mayors, secretaries of finance, and
place                                                                        secretaries of education)
4.2 Schools with Escola Ativa program  210                                   943
4.3 Population in general informed about    population informed              process underway
FUNDESCOLA
4.4 Student Assessment System in place;  implemented                        implemented
The Education Information System revised
and implemented.
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                US$ million     US$ million
1. Raising schools to minimum operating standards        87.14           98.30            112.8
2. Establishing a school development process              5.16            11.46           222.1
3. Planning and providing additional school places        4.20             1.10            26.2
4. Strengthening education management and project        23.83            27.86           116.9
administration
Total Baseline Cost                                     120.33           138.72
Physical Contingencies                                   3.17
Price Contingencies                                      1.50
Total Project Costs               125.00          138.72
Total Financing Required                125.00          138.72
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        lcs ICB        NCB           Other         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           2.50          0.00           0.00          2.50
(0.00)         (0.20)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.20)
2. Goods                       30.50           0.00          0.00           0.00          30.50
(17.70)        (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)       (17.70)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          20.30          0.00          20.30
(0.00)         (0.00)        (20.30)        (0.00)       (20.30)
4. School Grants*               0,00           0.00          62.00          0.00          62.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (15.30)        (0.00)        (15.30)
5. Administrative               0.00           0.00          3.00           0.00           3.00
Expenses**                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.00)          (0.00)        (3.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       30.50           2.50          85.30           0.00         118.30
(17.70)        (0.20)        (38.60)         (0.00)       (56.50)
Notes:  *School projects, allotments for schools to meet standards, and yearly allotments for schools to maintain standards.
**Administrative expenses means incremental operational costs related tot he management and supervision of the
project,     including maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts for office equipment and
vehicles.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00          0.22          0.00           0.22
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.18)        (0.00)        (0.18)
2. Goods                        17.70          1.04          0.05           0.00         18.79
- 28 -



(8.63)         (0.83)         (0.05)         (0.00)         (9.51)
3. Services                      17.21           1.48           19.80          0.00          38.49
.     (17.21)         (1.48)         (14.43)         (0.00)        (33.12)
4. School Grants*                 0.00           0.00           78.40           2.70          81.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (19.60)        (0.00)        (19.60)
5. Administrative                 0.00           0.00           0.12            0.00          0.12
Expenses'                        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.09)         (0.00)        (0.09)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         34.91           2.52           98.59           2.70         138.72
(25.84)         (2.31)        (34.35)         (0.00)        (62.50)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Raising schools to     30.00     60.20                33.94      64.36               113.1  106.9
minimum operational
standards
2. Establishing a school  3.00       2.30                 3.59       7.87               119.7  342.2
development process
3. Planning and providing    4.30    0.00                 0.40       0.70                9.3    0.0
additional school places*
4. Strengthening education   25.20   0.00                24.57       3.29               97.5    0.0
management and Project
Administration*
* The PAD did not anticipate counterpart funds for components 3 and 4 at the PAD. However, the
Government ended up financing US$700,000 in component 3 and US$3.29 million in component 4.
- 29-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:        __._.
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/1997                     1   Sr. Education Economist
2   Sr. Education Specialist
I   Education and Health
I   Coordinator
School Improvement Specialist
09/1997                     1   Sr. Education Economist
I   Sr. Education Specialist
I   Education & Health Coordinator
I   School Improvement Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1997                     1   Sr. Education Economist
I   Sr. Education Specialist
I   Education/Health Coord.
12/1997                     1   Sr. Education Economist
2   Sr. Education Specialist
I   Education/Health Specialist
1   School Improvement Specialist
1   Operations Specialist
Supervision
05/1999                      1   Sr. Education Economist            S             S
I   Operations Analyst
2   Financial Mgmt. Analyst
12/1999                      1   Sr. Education Economist            S             S
06/2000                      1  Operations Specialist               S             S
1   Education Specialist
10/2000                      1   Sr. Education Economist            S             S
I   Education Specialist
I   Sr. Education Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                n/a                         n/a
AppraisalNegotiation                      n/a                     197,145
Supervision                              35.7                     204,213
Total                                    38.2                     412,003
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substanbal, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
LI Institutional Development              O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
LII Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                OH   O SU * M  O N  O NA
LII Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Li Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
I Lending                                             *HSOS  OU OHU
O Supervision                                         O HS * S  O  U  O HU
El Overall                                            OHS *S  OU  OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
EL Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
LI Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                            OHS OS   0  U  0 HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
DOCUMENTS SUPPORTING PROJECT PREPARATION
A Call to Action: Combatting School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil. World Bank, Brazil Ministry of
Education, Unicef, December 19, 1997. (World Bank Sector Stuty Report No. 18358-BR). This
report summarizes findings and recommendations from thirteen commissioned studies, not listed
separately here.
Avaliacao e Desempenho: Fatores Associados: Resultados da 4a Serie-1999. Relat6rio Prelirninar.
Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2001.
Censo Escolar 1998: Sinopse Estatistica da Educacao Basica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 1999.
Censo Escolar 1999: Sinopse Estatistica da Educacao Basica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2000.
Censo Escolar 2000: Sinopse Estatistica da Educacao Basica. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2001.
Projeto de Melhoria da Escola. Terceira Edicao. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasilia, 2001.
Sistema Nacional de Avaliacao da Educacao Basica, SAEB/95: Resultados Estaduais. Instituto Nacional
de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 1997.
Sistema Nacional de Avaliacao da Educacao Basica, SAEB/97: Primeiros Resultados. Instituto Nacional
de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 1999.
Sistematica de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educaq5o--FNDE, MEC, Brasilia, 1997.
Dinheiro na Escola: procedimientos operacionais. Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto--MEC, Brasilia,
1997.
Educaton for All: Evaluation of the Year 2000. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2000.
Geografia da Educacao Brasileira (CD-ROM). Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2000.
"The Financing of Education in Brazil," Sergei Soares, World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1999.
STUDIES CARRIED OUT DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Escola Ativa: Capacitaqao de Professores. FUNDESCOLA/MEC, Brasilia, 1999.
Guia de Consulta, Programa de Apoio aos Secretarios Municipais de Educacao (PRASEM). Projeto
Nordeste, Banco Mundial, UNICEF, Brasilia 1997.
- 34 -



Manual de Operacionalizaqao: Proforma,co. FUNDESCOLA, SEED/MEC, Brasilia, 2000.
Manual de Opera,co e Implementac,o do Projeto (MOIP): FUNDESCOLA I. Volume I, Orientacoes
Gerais. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasilia, 1998.
Manual de Operacao e Implementa,co do Projeto (MOIP): FUNDESCOLA I. Volume II, Orientacoes aos
Estados e Municipios. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasilia, 1998.
Manual Para Adequa,co de Predios Escolares, Tercera Edicao. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasilia, 2001.
Normas Para Financiamento de Projetos Educacionais no Ambito do FUNDESCOLA. FUNDESCOLA,
MEC/FNDE, Brasilia, 1998, 1999, 2000.
"O Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola e a Gestao Escolar no Brasil: Situacao Atual e Perspectivas."
Jose Amaral Sobrinho, FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasilia, 2001.
Plano de Carreira e Remunera,co do Magisterio Puiblico. FUNDESCOLA, MEC, Brasilia, 2000.
Project Appraisal Document: FUNDESCOLA I. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1998.
Project Appraisal Document: FUNDESCOLA II. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1999.
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDIES
Sistema Nacional de Avaliacao da Educacao Basica, SAEB/99: Resultados 99. Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2001.
Avaliacao de Desempenho: Fatores Associados, July, 2001 59 pps. National Institute of Education
Research (INEP). Impact Analysis of Fundescola's School Development Plan program.
- 35 -



- 36 -



