Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4311-BR
Loan Agreement
(School Improvement Project- FUNDESCOLA I)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 7, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4311-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the initial segment 
of the Borrower’s School Improvement Program (Fundescola), the overall concept and 
objectives of which were presented to the Bank;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, after evaluating the implementation of the Project, 
intends to extend similar activities to other regions of the Borrower and for such 
purpose will seek the Bank’s financial assistance; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Implementation Program” means each program referred to in Section 
3.05 (c) of this Agreement, as described in the MOIP (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“Annual Work Plan” means each plan, prepared by the relevant COEP (as 
hereinafter defined) using the relevant procedures  detailed in the MOIP, to be 
approved by DGP (as hereinafter defined) and containing the actions recommended by the 
corresponding Forum (as hereinafter defined) to be financed by the Project;
(c)
“Banco Central” means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower’s Central 
Bank;
(d)
“COEP” means Coordenação Estadual Executiva do Projeto,  the Project’s 
state-based Executive Coordination, to be established in each of the Participating 
State’s (as hereinafter defined) Secretariat of Education;
(e)
“DEMEC” means Delegacia do Ministério da Educação e do Desporto, the 
state-based office of MEC (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“DGP” means Direção Geral do Projeto, the Project’s central coordination 
unit, established pursuant to MEC’s Portaria No. 172 of March 4, 1998;
(g)
“FNDE” means Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educação, the National 
Fund for Education Development, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 5.537, 
dated November 21, 1968, and Decree-Law No. 872, dated September 15, 1969;
(h)
“FNDE Arrangements” means the arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement;
(i)
“Forum” means a collective body in a Participating Microregion (as 
hereinafter defined) comprised of the Participating State’s Secretary of Education, 
the Mayors of the Participating Municipalities (as hereinafter defined) from that 
Microregion, a representative of UNDIME, (as hereinafter defined) and the Delegate of 
DEMEC;
(j)
“GDE” means Grupo de Desenvolvimento da Escola, the School Development 
Group which is a municipal-based unit composed of education secretariat 
representatives from a Participating State and Participating Municipalities, which 
provides technical assistance to schools in implementing the Project;
(k)
“MEC” means Ministério da Educação e do Desporto, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Education and Sports; 
(l)
“MOIP” means “Manual de Operações e Implementação do Projeto”,  the 
Project Operations and Implementation Manual dated June 1, 1998, containing, inter 
alia, the Project Logical Framework (as hereinafter defined), detailed arrangements 
for the overall carrying out of the Project, a description of the Project’s decision 
making bodies and their corresponding responsibilities, the instruments and procedures 
to be followed by these bodies, and the corresponding implementation schedule;
(m)
“Microregion” means a geographic region of a state, as established 
pursuant to Resolução IBGE No. 51 dated July 31, 1989;
(n)
“Microregion Action Program” means a set of actions proposed by the 
relevant Forum to be implemented in its corresponding Participating Microregion;
(o)
“North and Center-West Regions” means those geographic regions of the 
Borrower, excluding the Federal District, defined in the MOIP;
Page  3
(p)
“Operating Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.03 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Participating Microregion” means a Microregion located in a 
Participating State,  comprised of Participating Municipalities  and listed in the 
MOIP;
(r)
“Participating Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s municipalities 
located in a Participating Microregion which benefits from the Project;
(s)
“Participating School” means a school located in any Participating State 
that meets the eligibility criteria to carry out School Subprojects or other selected 
activities under the Project;
(t)
“Participating States” means the Borrower’s States of the North and 
Center-West Regions in which the Project shall be carried out; 
(u)
“Participation Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(v)
“Project Logical Framework” means the matrix setting forth the indicators 
to be used in monitoring the progress of the Project and the achievement of its 
objectives, and included in the MOIP;
(w)
“School Development Plan” means the multi-year plan, prepared by a 
Participating School located in a Participating Microregion, which meets the selection 
criteria and implementation procedures detailed in the MOIP, and establishes the 
specific education improvement targets and identifies the inputs and activities, 
including School Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), necessary for the achievement 
of such targets;
(x)
“School Grants” means a grant to be made by the Borrower to a 
Participating School for the financing of a School Subproject under Part B.2 of the 
Project or the activities under Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project, as defined in the 
MOIP;
(y)
“School Subproject” means a set of actions to be carried out by a 
Participating School and included in Part B.2 of the Project, which is designed to 
achieve specific education improvement targets specified in the relevant School 
Development Plan, through, inter alia, the financing of didactic materials, training 
and learning kits, following the selection criteria and implementation procedures set 
forth in the MOIP;
(z)
“SPA” means Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanhamento, the Project’s 
computerized planning and monitoring system described in the MOIP;
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(bb)
UNDIME means União Nacional de Dirigentes Municipais de Educação, the 
National Association of Municipal Education Managers.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
two million five hundred thousand Dollars ($62,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  4
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Education and Sports of the Borrower, and the 
person or persons designated in writing by such Minister, are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEC, with the assistance of the Participating States and 
Participating Municipalities, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with: (i) the MOIP; (ii) the relevant Annual Implementation Program; (iii) the 
relevant Participation and Operating Agreements; and (iv) appropriate administrative, 
financial, educational, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
Project coordination unit (the DGP) with responsibilities, structure and functions as 
set forth in the relevant sections of the MOIP and with staff in adequate numbers and 
with adequate qualifications, for the purpose of, inter alia: (A) assisting MEC in the 
overall coordination and carrying out of the Project; (B) preparing the relevant 
Annual Implementation Program and submitting it to the Bank for approval; (C) 
maintaining the SPA; and (D) providing training and technical support to the COEPs and 
the GDEs.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of the overall carrying of the Project, the 
Borrower, through MEC, shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
each Participating State and with each Participating Municipality (the Participation 
Agreements), to govern such Participating State’s and Participating Municipality’s 
overall responsibilities in the carrying out of their corresponding activities under 
the Project, such Participation Agreement to provide for, inter alia:
(a)
In the case of a Participating State, (i) the establishment and 
maintenance, until the completion of the Project, in each of the Project’s 
Microregion, of the Forum, with structure and functions as set forth in the relevant 
sections of the MOIP, for the purposes of, inter alia: (A) preparing the Microregion 
Action Program; and (B) recommending to the DGP the School Subprojects and other 
Project activities to be financed under the relevant Annual Work Plan; and (ii) the 
establishment and maintenance by each Participating State, through its Secretariat of 
Education, of the COEP with adequate responsibilities, structure and functions as set 
forth in the relevant sections of the MOIP, for the purposes of, inter alia: (A) 
coordinating the preparation and monitoring of the Annual Work Plan, such plan to be 
Page  5
based on the Microregion Action Program, for approval of the DGP; (B) providing 
training and technical assistance to the GDEs; (C) guiding the State Secretariat of 
Education in the procurement of goods and services approved by DGP in the Annual Work 
Plan; and (D) certifying the expenditures related to the goods and services procured 
by the State Secretariat of Education; and
(b)
In the case of a Participating Municipality, the establishment and 
maintenance, until the completion of the Project, by each Participating Municipality, 
through its Secretary of Education, of the GDE, with responsibilities, structure and 
functions as set forth in the relevant section of the MOIP, for the purpose of, inter 
alia, assisting schools in the preparation of the corresponding School Development 
Plan and analyzing School Subprojects.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and, for the purposes of providing funds for the Project, the Borrower 
shall, through MEC, enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with FNDE (the 
FNDE Arrangements), such Arrangements to include, inter alia, the obligation of FNDE 
to enter into an agreement (the Operating Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, with 
each Participating State, Participating Municipality or other municipalities located 
in a Participating State, as the case may be, to govern their corresponding 
responsibilities in the carrying out of eligible activities under Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, 
A.5, B.2, C.2 and D.2 of the Project, all in accordance with the MOIP.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions and upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through MEC, shall:
(a)
In the months of March, June, September and December during each year of 
Project implementation, furnish to the Bank quarterly cumulative financial reports on 
the progress in the implementation of the Project, the reports to be issued in March 
and September to take into consideration the indicators and targets set forth in the 
Project Logical Framework, and, any of the reports referred to in this paragraph (a) 
to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
In the month of April during each year of Project implementation, hold an 
annual review jointly with the Bank, such review to be based on the relevant reports 
referred to in paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such 
action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, during the 
review referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner 
and within the timetable agreed upon during such review; and
(c)
In the month of December during each year of Project implementation, 
except for the first year, furnish to the Bank an annual program satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Annual Implementation Program), describing, inter alia, the Project 
activities (including School Subprojects) to be carried out during the next calendar 
year, including the cost thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under each Participation Agreement and each Operating Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any of the Participating Agreements or any of the Operating 
Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MEC, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continuing operation and maintenance of the facilities provided by the Project; and
Page  6
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and of the Participating Municipalities and 
Participating States, as the case may be, responsible for the carrying out of the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
 (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that at least five Participation Agreements with Participating States and 
Municipalities comprising five Participating Microregions have been entered into among 
the parties thereto; and
(b)
that the Loan Agreement has been registered by Banco Central. 
Page  7
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been validly 
registered by Banco Central.
Section 5.03. The date September 8, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Educação e do Desporto
Direção Geral do Projeto Fundescola
Via N1 Leste, Pavilhão das Metas, 
70150-900, Brasília - D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, U.S.A., as of  the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Paulo Tarso Flecha de Lima
Page  8
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
(a) Equipment
   5,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(b) Furniture
  12,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
50% of local
expenditures
(2)
Works
     200,000
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
School grants
  15,300,000
25% of the amounts
disbursed by the
Borrower
(4)
Training and
  20,300,000
100%
Consultants' Services
(5)
Administrative Expenses
   3,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(6)
Unallocated
   6,000,000
TOTAL
  62,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training and Consultants’ Services” means training, technical 
assistance, travel and related expenses for staff preparing and carrying out school 
development and other educational programs; and
Page  9
(d)
the term “Administrative Expenses” means incremental operational costs 
related to the management and supervision of the Project, including maintenance and 
supplies, communication services and spare parts for office equipment and vehicles.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equivalent to 
$12,300,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 31, 1997 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) civil works 
costing less than $5,000,000 (other than the first two contracts to be awarded); (ii) 
goods costing less than $750,000 equivalent; (iii) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen primary schools and the public 
institutions that are responsible for them within a collaborative framework among the 
relevant Participating States and Participating Municipalities, in order to increase 
the participation, promotion and graduation rates and educational achievement of 
school children in the North and Center-West Regions of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Raising Primary Schools to Minimum Operating Standards
Carrying out of the following activities:
1.
Promoting minimum primary school operational standards through the development 
and dissemination of minimum operational framework standards for schools, as provided 
in the MOIP.
2.
Educating and certifying teachers through the carrying out of teacher’s 
certification programs to be prepared in accordance with the procedures established in 
the MOIP.
3.
Financing basic school furniture and equipment.
4.
Financing school improvement investments, such investments to include, inter 
alia, teaching and other relevant materials for schools.
5.
Financing the rehabilitation of school physical facilities.
Part B:
Establishing a School Development Process
Carrying of the following activities:
1.
Preparing School Development Plans.
2.
Financing School Subprojects included in the School Development Plans.
Part C:
Planning and Providing Additional School Places 
1.
Carrying out of school microplanning activities and developing and disseminating 
of standard school architectural plans.
2.
Carrying out of activities for testing standard architectural plans.
Page  10
Part D:
Strengthening Education Management and Project Administration
1.
Building and strengthening management capacity in schools and in the 
Secretariats of Education of Participating States and Participating Municipalities.
2.
Carrying out of specialized teaching and learning improvement programs designed 
for school staff in order to help schools improve student achievement, such as 
intensive programs targeted to low-achieving and otherwise educationally disadvantaged 
children,  as such programs are further described in the MOIP.
3.
Fostering community participation in the school development process through 
public information and communication campaigns.
4.
Strengthening national education information systems and programs including the 
Borrower’s educational assessment system and educational statistics and information 
system, and, the relevant systems and programs carried out by the Borrower’s National 
Institute for Educational Research and Studies (Instituto Nacional de Estudos e 
Pesquisas Educacionais - INEP). 
5.
Provision of goods, works and consultants’ services for the purposes of 
financing Project management activities, such activities to comprise, inter alia, 
overall planning and coordination of Project activities, and studies designed to 
improve the implementation and impact of the Borrower’s School Improvement Program 
(Fundescola).
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
Page  11
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR 
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed 
Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Page  12
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after May 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  13
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, and works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or 
more per contract but less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a)  each contract for goods or works procured under Part B.1 
of this Section; (b) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of  $350,000; and (c) the 
first two contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, 
Page  14
but less than the equivalent of $5,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970 as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services related to the preparation of school architectural models estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $12,500,000, or 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $7,500,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $16,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Page  16
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  17
