E767
May 2003
ENVIRONMlENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD FRAMEWORK
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Objectives
The environmental and social safeguards framework provides general policies, guidelines, codes
of practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation of World Bank supported
Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project in Iran. Consistent with existing national legislation, the
objective of the framework is to help ensure that activities under the proposed operation will:
* Protect human health
* Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood
* Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their
cumulative effects;
* Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and
* Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.
General principles
Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed operation, and the related need for proving
immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing potential
6nvironmental and social risks, this framework is based on the following principles:
The proposed operation will support reconstruction of multiple investments (housing, utilities,
roads, schools, clinics, etc.), the detailed designs of which may not be known at appraisal. To
ensure the effective application of the World Bank's safeguard policies, the framework provides
guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the selection and design of
investments, and the planning of mitigation measures.
The proposed emergency operation will not support environmental Category A investments, nor
investments requiring land acquisition affecting 200 or more people. Consequently, no
environmental impact assessments (ELAs) or Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) will be required.
All proposed investments will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks can
be adequately addressed through the application of standard guidelines and codes of practice.
Responsibilities for safeguard screening and mitigation
Procurement and supervision of the civil works under the Component A and B will be managed
through Contract Management Unit to be set up in the Housing Foundation of the Islamic
Revolution (HF). The PMU and the Housing Foundation through its CMU will be responsible
for the safeguard screening and mitigation monitoring. Design of investments under Component
A and B follow the standards and norms defined in each sector and thus require close
coordination with the sector ministries and utilities represented at the provincial government
including the ministries of electricity and water, education, health, telecommunication, etc. Each
ministry and public utility will be responsible for applying the safeguard screening and mitigation
requirements to its own investments and will work closely with the CMU and the Department of
Environment



The Environmental Protection Agency of Iran will have the ultimate responsibilities for clearance
of environmental measures and issuance of environmental construction permits. The mission
confirmed with them their readiness to assist with implementation of the framework. A unit has
been recently set up in the Department of Environment for overseeing the World Bank-financed
projects. This will serve as a one-stop shop for providing clearance to ensure compliance with
both the Government's procedure on environmental requirements and the Bank's safeguard and
environmental policies.
Capacity Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Framework Implementation
As part of the capacity building that will be provided for implementation of the proposed
operation the environmental specialist at the CMU as well as the safeguards focal points and
relevant staff of the concerned ministries at the provincial level will receive training in the
application of the safeguard framework.
To assist in this capacity building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review of the
application of the framework, the Project will contract specialist social and environmental
services. During supervision of these operations, the World Bank will assess the implementation
of the framework, and if required will recommend additional strengthening.
Consultation and Disclosure
This environmental and social safeguards framework was prepared in consultation with the
relevant departments and stakeholders such as the EPA of Iran, participating provincial
govemments. The Government will disclose it in Iran and it will also be made available at the
World Bank's Infoshop prior to the approval by the Board of the World Bank.
Environmental Issues and Mitigations Measures
A set of environmental guidelines will be applied during project implementation. These
guidelines will serve as both a checklist to identify potential environmental issues and to ensure
public safety in areas related to: (a) demolition of damaged buildings and debris removal and
disposal; (b) control of erosion: (c) transportation of materials; (d) management of liquid and
solid waste, including hazardous materials from health clinics; and (e) public safety and
management of construction activities to minimize air and noise pollution.
The Environmental Guidelines are designed to provide guidance to the PMU and the CMU on the
procedures used to identify those investments that may induce negative environmental impacts.
Guidance is given on the mitigation of negative environmental impacts that may accrue from sub-
project construction. The guidelines are to be implemented during the application, screening,
assessment, approval and execution of investments.
Under the EERP, most of the eligible investments involve constructing, upgrading and
rehabilitating schools, health clinics as well as essential rural and urban roads, sidewalks,
retaining walls, street lighting and urgent repairs to potable water, storm water drains and
drainage systems. A very limited number of investments will involve constructing, rehabilitating,
upgrading and repairing new potable water sources, potable wells, water reservoirs and small
water supply systems. Sewage treatment plants, solid waste equipment, waste disposal sites are
not eligible for financing under the EERP. All investments will be subjected to environmental
screening and assigned to one of two categories depending upon the magnitude and adversity of
predicted environmental impacts:



Category B       Projects that do have a significant effect on the environment. However, the negative
impacts are mainly short term and can be properly mitigated, and therefore require
only limited Environmental Assessment (EA).
Category C       Projects that do not have a significant impact upon the environment and therefore
do not require Environmental Assessment.
No EERP investments are expected to fall into Category A      classification. Most eligible
investments are expected to fall within Category C and will require no EA. Furthermore, since
these sub-projects will be small in scale, they will not be subject to environmental review. A
small number of investments that include new water supply, wastewater sewerage and municipal
roads may fall within Category B and may require a separate EA. However, the positive impacts,
such as the improvements in public health that will result from adequate water supplies are
expected to substantially outweigh any minor negative impacts. In most cases, any necessary
impact mitigation will be inherent in standard engineering design and good construction practice.
Investments considered to impose unacceptable negative environmental impact will not be
approved for financing.
GOOD PRACTICE ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PROCEDURES
The mitigation of potential environmental impacts may be achieved in a variety of ways. This
involves implementing good engineering design and construction techniques and ensuring that
the Contractor undertakes his work in accordance with good construction practices. This is best
dealt with by incorporating mitigation clauses into the Bidding Documents, thereby allowing the
Contractor to make any necessary financial provisions from the outset. Site supervision staff
must check that the works are carried out in accordance with such clauses throughout project
implementation. However, as mentioned earlier, the majority of the sub-projects to be funded
under the EERP will have minor or no environmental impact. These will be identified at an early
stage in the project cycle and adequately mitigated, so that positive impacts substantially
outweigh negative ones, and only those few impacts that cannot be reasonably mitigated, are
accepted. General descriptions of mitigation measures for negative environmental impacts under
the EERP are given below:
Good Practice Mitigation Measures for Negative Impacts
IMPACT                                GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION
1. Obstruction of Road  Dunng construction, the total closure of roads should be avoided and single line traffic
Access              maintained wherever possible Traffic flow should be managed and working areas cordoned off
for the safety of both the public and construction workers Such areas should also be adequately
lighted throughout the hours of darkness
2. Disruption of Public  Dunng construction, and where existing services such as water, sewerage, electricity and
Services            telephones have to be temporanly disconnected, the penod of disconnection should be kept to a
minimum Where disruption for an extended penod is unavoidable, alternative arrangements
should be made.
3. Generation of        The generation of construction traffic should be minimized wherever possible Heavy transport
Construction Traffic  and equipment activity should be restncted to normal working hours.



4.  Water Supply and       The development of new water sources must be linked to the availability of resources without
Water Pollution        derogation of existing supplies. For new boreholes, a survey of adjacent wells must be
undertaken and data on ground water levels, pumping rates and water quality collected All new
boreholes will be subjected to test pumping on completion, at a discharge rate greater than that
at which they will be expected to operate
Wastewater sub-projects require particular attention to the disposal of raw sewage flows. Where
this is to a regional trunk collector, the capacity of the pipeline to take the increased flows must
be established Where sewage is ultimately discharged to a treatment works, its capacity must
be adequate to take the additional flows.
5.  Soil Erosion           Where construction is undertaken dunng the rainy season, open trenches should be lined or
covered with plastic sheeting and their sides adequately supported  Construction should be
programmed so major excavations and movements of spoil are undertaken dunng the summer
months Avoid stockpiling soil on hillsides, and cover spoil tips dunng penods of rain.
6.  Disruption of Road     The disruption of natural drainage should be kept to a minimum  The excavation of cut-off
Drainage              trenches and diversion channels may need to be constructed as Temporary Works until land re-
grading, concrete culverts or permanent diversion channels can be completed
7.  Disposal of Spoil      Demolition and excavated matenals must be deposited only at locations previously agreed for
the purpose with the Municipality. Wherever possible, spoil should be reused for backfill and
reinstatement, or taken to a site approved for such disposal Small quantities may be graded
over adjacent land where this does not result in the detenoration of soil fertility
8.  Increased Noise        Construction noise should be minimized  Particular limitations may be required where
During Construction    construction is undertaken in the vicinity of mosques and other cultural facilities. Excavators
and other construction machinery should not be left running needlessly, and generators should
be baffled
9.  Air Pollution          The generation of dust and exhaust fumes should be kept to a mnnimum Access and haul roads
should be kept swept and sprayed with water Spoil heaps should also be sprayed Hauling
trucks shall be properly covered
10. Damage to              Where historical remains are unexpectedly discovered in an area not previously known for its
Archaeological         archaeological interest, use "chance find" procedures and coordinate with concerned authonties.
Remains
11. Rehabilitation of      Sub-projects shall give pnority to the rehabilitation of toilets in schools and clinics and to the
schools and clinics    proper disposal of hazardous and infectious wastes
Enviromuental Monitoring
Environmental monitoring for most sub-projects will be limited to compliance monitoring during
construction. This will comprise on-site inspection of construction activities to ensure that the
environmental rnitigation measures included in the Scope of Work of the Contractor are being
implemented. Compliance monitoring will be undertaken by the supervising engineer and, when
required, by an environmental specialist who could be called upon on a part-time basis to inspect
certain environmental mitigation measures on-site. The environmental monitoring indicators to
be used for the EERP include:



Monitoring Indicators for Project investments
Project Component          Monitoring Indicators     Responsibility for                  Frequency
Monitoring
Rehabilitation of schools        Toilet facilities clean and  *  Environmental specialist  *  Semu-annual
functioning properly        in close coordination with
Dnnking water clean and     the Ministry of Education
safe from contanunation     and the EPA
Rehabilitation of clinics   *    Medical wastes separated  *  Environmental specialist  *  Semi-annual
in the   waste  stream      in close coordination with
including proper location   the Ministry of Health
of   hazardous  waste       and the EPA
containers
Availability of proper
guidelines for collection
and     disposal   of
hazardous wastes in the
clinic
Roads rehabilitation         *   Operating     drainage  *    Environmental specialst  *  Semi-annual
channels                    in close coordination with
No    visible  negative     the Municipalities and the
impacts on surrounding      EPA authorities
habitat
Improvements in water        *   Clean functioning toilets  *  Environmental specialist  *  Semi-annual
supply and sanitation        *   No leakage or overflows      in close coordination with
of manholes and drains      the Water Authonties and
the EPA



