25119
October 9, 2002
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/09/2002
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: Islamic Republic of Iran                      Project ID: P080802
Project: Earthquake Emergency Response Project         Task Team Leader: Amir Al-Khafaj
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 8, 2002          IBRD Amount ($m): 163.50
Bank Approval: February 27, 2003 (expected)            IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSIF
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)
Status: Lending                                        Sector:
Theme: Natural disaster management (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project objectives are to assist the GOI in:
(a) Relieving the social and economic hardship caused by the earthquake in Qazwin, Zanjan, Hamedan and
Markazi, with a focus on reconstruction by:
-   Enabling households and communities affected by the earthquake to restart agriculture; and,
-   Reconstructing and repairing to earthquake resistant standards houses and social and economic
infrastructure.
(b) Strengthening capacity of the government to prevent, respond to and recover from emergencies by:
-   Developing effective systems and institutions for earthquake disaster monitoring, mitigation and
management in order to reduce/minimize the impacts of future earthquakes, particularly oni highly
vulnerable social groups.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The proposed project will consist of five components:
Housing Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$94 million);
Social and Public Infrastructure Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$31 million);
Agriculture Support Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$15 million);
Technical Assistance Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$23 million); and,
Project management (Nominative cost estimate: US$0.5 million).
(a) Housing Component
This component will consist of the provision of building material along with the on-going housing credit program targeting the
victims as well as technical assistance and construction supervision in the affected areas. The previous Bank financed Earthquake
Recovery Project (LN3301-IRN) financed purchase of materials and equipment to construct based on an earthquake-resistant
housing model. This model will be reviewed during appraisal in terms of its suitability to local culture, availability of materials
and disaster-resistant standards. Unit cost and its affordability will also be reviewed. Based on this review, a choice will be made
on materials, construction structure. The Bank financing will cover the purchase of materials and equipments, matched with
technical assistance on building system and quality assurance.



(b) Social and Public Infrastructure Component
This component would finance the rebuilding and repair of social infrastructure such as schools and community
centers. This component would provide funding also for rebuilding and repairing of damaged water and sewerage
systems in the affected areas, including consulting services required for the design and supervision of such
subprojects. Public infrastructure would be reconstructed to earthquake-resistant standards. The corresponding utility
or regulatory agency would ensure fulfillment of these norms. This will be monitored by means of standard
government control mechanisms and will be subject to external financial and technical audits. This component is
expected to generate temporary employment for skilled and semi-skilled laborers through the construction activities in
the affected areas.
(c) Agriculture Support Component
The component will aim at providing support to restore the economic activities of the affected communities, namely
in the agricultural sector. It will finance purchase of crops and livestock to replace the losses, the reconstruction of
storage facilities and the provision of farming equipment as well as fertilizers and pesticides. Donor support would be
solicited to cover the cost of this component.
(d) Technical Assistance Component
This component would strengthen the Gol's institutional capacity of: (a) national and local governments in the
management of disaster risk; (b) research and training institutions; and (c) communities in the affected areas and those
in the earthquake prone areas.  While following up on the institutional needs that have arose since the 1990
Earthquake Recovery Project, it aims at strengthening inter-agency and inter-governmental coordination on disaster
management. Proposed activities under this component would include:
*  Stocktaking of past national and local emergency response experiences in Iran. This would involve a review by
independent team of international experts of emergency preparedness leading to the identification of policy,
institutional and physical interventions aimed at reducing catastrophic losses from natural disasters (nominative
cost estimate: US$0.5 million);
* Preparation of preparedness and mitigation plans (nominative cost estimate: US$0.6million);
* Zoning and land use mapping of high-risk areas. A risk map would be prepared for each of the four Provinces
and would focus mainly at areas that suffer from social and economic deprivation. The map would define high-
risk areas and those suitable for construction. It would also provide information on three different types of
vulnerability whenever applicable: seismic, landslides and flooding (nominative cost estimate: US$0.5 million);
* Technical assistance on the improvement of the early warning and monitoring system on seismic risks
(nominative cost estimate: US$0.3 million);
*  Training on the enforcement of building codes for local governments (nominative cost estimate: US$0.3 million);
Training in the areas of disaster prevention.and mitigation (nominative cost estimate: US$0.3 million);
Information dissemination and public awareness program on disaster risk mitigations (nominative cost estimate:
US$0.5 million); and,
Technical assistance on the design of a national-scale disaster insurance program (nominative cost estimate:
US$20 million.)
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social characteristics
of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural
habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be located in Zanjan, Markazi, Qazwin and Hamedan Provinces, which were affected by the
earthquake on June 22, 2002. The provinces of Qazwin, Hamedan, Zanjan and Markazi are located in the
northwest part of Iran and serve as a bridge between Tehran and the northern and western regions as well as the
Caucasus republics and Europe. The affected area is highlands covered with mountains and green slopes.



People engage in primary activities such as agriculture and cattle rearing. Qazwin, Zanjan and Markazi towns
are important transit centers on the main route between Tehran and the Northwest of Iran. The provinces are
highly susceptible to earthquakes and a number of the villages and towns of the area have been rebuilt in the
past.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The Project is categorized as B with physical investment on reconstruction of housing and small-
scale infrastructure. All procedures to be followed will be described in detail in the project Operational Manual.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on El for a detailed description or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    No
Section I - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe aniy safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental Safeguards
OP 4.01 -- Environmental Assessment
In consideration of the scope and emergency nature (OP 8.50) of the operation as per OP 4.01, this project will
not require an environmental assessment prior to board presentation. The justification for this exemption will be
recorded in the Loan documents. Given the emergency nature of the operation, the Project needs to be prepared
speedily. In this regard, the fnalization and disclosure of an EA/EMP during preparation will prevent the project
objectives from being achieved in an effective manner.
The overall environmental impact of the proposed Project is expected to be positive, in that it supports the
restoration of necessary social and housing infrastructure in areas heavily damaged by the earthquake. The
question of whether any of the earthquake destruction was exacerbated due to inappropriate environmental
practices will also be reviewed during appraisal. Potentially negative environrmental issues are primarily
associated with the construction works such as land clearing, disposable of debris and worker safety. Safe water
and sanitation facilities need to be ensured in the case of school construction. Hence, physical investments for
reconstruction to be funded will be subjected to environmental screening. Adequate mitigation/corrective
measures will be incorporated into the proposed design and bidding documents during implementation.
Operational Manual will be prepared based on the best-practice models developed in ERL projects in other



countries. The Government will secure provision of adequate funding to screen and monitor the environmental
impacts during implementation.
Social Safeguards
OD 4.20 (being converted to OP 4.10) - Indigenous Peoples (IP)
OD 4.20 does not apply because on available information the persons affected are not vulnerable ethnic
minorities and are not scheduled as tribal people within the provisions of Iranian law. This will be confirmed
during the appraisal.
OP 4.12 on Involuntary resettlement
The project's beneficiary populations from the proposed Housing Component are regarded as refugees
from natural disasters. Therefore OP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement will not apply.
ll.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or due
to multiple project component.
NA
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The social impacts of the earthquake have been harsh. Particularly affected are the populations in the
remote villages who lost their properties and family members, who now have to survive the harsh
winter in tents. Given the fact that the main social concern is restoring peoples' livelihoods as rapidly
as possible. The Project will have positive impacts as a restoration of livelihoods through provision of
housing, basic and social infrastructure.
II.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environment: An Operational Manual will be prepared covering the screening criteria, procedure and mitigation
measures on environment. The Government will secure provision of adequate funding to screen and monitor the
environmental impacts during implementation.
Social aspect: Not Applicable. However, good practice is incorporated in the project by the following provisions
approved by the Bank social/safeguards reviewer:
a) a rapid simple baseline survey early in implementation that will identify some key qualitative and quantitative
measures of project outcomes (a satisfaction survey should be done before project closing);
b) a local level communications monitoring and feedback mechanism that will ensure effective consultation with
and listening to the beneficiaries, and track their interaction with the responsible authorities;
c) identification of particularly vulnerable persons (e.g. people with disabilities, widows, aged persons living
alone, persons dependent on charity) and the extent to which existing social protection institutions meet their
needs; and
d) "user" aspects of public information on emergency response - what information people need, how they get it,
how effective it is in shaping their knowledge and attitudes in response to emergencies.
The above measures will be incorporated in the project design. The Housing Foundation which has been
designated by the Government to implement housing reconstruction and most likely will be designated as the



implementation agency for the Housing Component in this proposed project established a participatory
consultation an d monitoring systems. In addition to the technical assistance activities to strengthen existing
systems, the Bank supervision tearn will provide technical advisory support to improve them to be more
accountable to the needs of the beneficiary populations and ensure close monitoring of the progress and impacts.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are: (a) population affected in the June 2002 earthquake in Zanjan, Qzawin, Hamedan and
Markazi; and (b) local government bodies. All households affected by the Earthquake have been registered by
the Foundation's survey. This constitutes a census of households, their socio-economic characteristics, danages
and reconstruction costs. The Foundation has established a consultation mechanism with the population and
identified sites as close as possible to the original areas for those living in areas prone to landslides and future
disasters. The village councils-and local governments (including provincial governments) are fully informed on
the process.
E. Safeguards Classif cation (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[xJ S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are technically
and institutionally manageable
[ I S3. - No safeguard issues
[ I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:              Expected    Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                       N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                   N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                                    N/A
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                             Expected    Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                       N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                   N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                                    N/A
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                  Expected    Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                       N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                   N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                                    N/A



Pest Management Plan:                                             Expected    Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                         N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                     N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                                     N/A
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                       Expected    Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                        N/A
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                     N/A
Date of submission to InfoShop                                      N/A
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Given the emergency nature of the Project, the Project will be processed as an Emergency Recovery Loan under
OP8.50. Hence the Project does not require in-country disclosure before the Board presentation.
Signed and submitted by           Name                                        Date
Task Tearn Leader:                Amir Al-Kha     a                          Oc. /i 2 c'
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Kanthan Shankar                            o    rc, vT "-'
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  John Keith Rennie
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                      Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:  SherifKamel Arif                              ,
Sector Manager/Director           Hedi Larbi



