Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T7588-IRN
TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR A PROPOSED LOAN
OF US$180 MILLION
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR AN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
May 5, 2003



Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate effective April 30, 2003)
Currency Unit: Iranian Rials (IRR)
Exchange Rates
US$1.00 = 8,152 IRR
Weights and Measures
I meter (m) = 3.228 feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
Fiscal Year of Borrower
March 21 - March 20
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSCSR         Bureau for Studies and Coordination of Safety and
Reconstruction Affairs
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CMU           Contract Management Unit
CQ            Consultants' Qualifications
EERP          Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOI           Government of Iran
HF            Housing Foundation
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICIP         Iranian Catastrophe Insurance Pool
IDA          International Development Association
IFAC          International Federation of Accounts
IIEES         International Institute of Earthquake Engineering and Seismology
IS           International Shopping
ISA          International Standards on Auditing
MBO           Machinery Bank Organization
MOEAF         Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOHUD         Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MOI          Ministry of Interior
MPO           Management and Planning Organization
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NCRNDI        National Committee for Reduction of Natural Disasters' Impact
NDTF          National Disaster Task Force
NS            National Shopping
OM            Operational Manual
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
OP            Operational Policy



ii
PFS           Project Financial Statements
PMU           Project Management Unit
QBS           Quality Based Selection
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA            Special Account
SBD           Standard Bidding Document
SOE           Statement of Expenses
SW            Small Works
UN            United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                               Joseph Saba
Sector Director:                                Emmanuel Forestier
Sector Manager                                  Hedi Larbi
Task Team Leader:                               Amir Al-Khafaji



iii
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page
Section A. Background & Donor Response Strategy                        1
Section B. Bank Response and Strategy                                  3
Section C. Detailed Project Description                                5
Section D. Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation      14
Section E. Action Plan                                                23
ATTACHMENTS:
1. Damage Assessment Report                                              27
2. Environment and Social Safeguards Framework                           28
3. Capacity Building on Disaster Management                              33
4. Housing Reconstruction Types Under the EERP                           40
5. Rapid Institutional Assessment of the Housing Foundation              42
6. Project Cost Estimates                                                43
7. Financial Management                                                  47
8. Terms Of Reference for the Project Management Unit Staff              53
9. Terms Of Reference for the Contract Management Unit Staff             68
10. Summary of Monitoring Indicators                                     69



A. BACKGROUND
1. The June 22, 2002 Earthquake. An earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale struck
the four Provinces of Qazvin, Zanjan, Hamedan and towns of Markazi in Iran on June 22, 2002.
This resulted in 232 deaths, 1,466 injuries and more than 40,727 damaged houses. The
Government of Iran (GOI) estimates the value of the damages to be around US$257 million.
These refer to destruction of buildings, loss of household properties and commercial equipment,
as well as damage to social and public infrastructure, livestock and agricultural production assets.
They exclude losses in wages, production and sales, as well as the actual cost of the relief effort
and financial compensation. The data indicates that the greatest impact has been on the region's
housing and social infrastructure, such as schools, health centers, hospitals and cultural/historical
buildings.
2. Most of the population affected by the disaster is members of low-income groups who live in
mud-brick constructed houses, with limited means and know-how to build earthquake-resistant
structures. Other materials, such as bricks and cement, have also been used to build living
quarters without anti-seismic reinforcement.  The region's infrastructure also suffered
considerable damage, including the primary and secondary road network, transmission lines and
water and sewerage systems. The earthquake caused direct damage to livestock, agricultural
crops, deep wells and irrigation systems, rural roads, processing and storage structures, and farm
equipment, as well as assets of other input suppliers (fertilizers, pesticides).
3. Background of Qazvin, Hamedan and Zanjan. The provinces of Qazvin, Hamedan, and
Zanjan, which would benefit from the Project, are located in the northwest part of Iran and serve
as a bridge between Tehran and the country's northern and western regions, as well as the
Caucasus Republics and Europe. Highlands and mountains are the dominant geographical
features of the area. People engage in primary activities, such as agriculture and cattle rearing.
Qazvin, and Zanjan towns are important transit centers on the main route between Tehran and
Iran's northwest. The provinces are highly susceptible to earthquakes and a number of the
villages and towns in the area have been rebuilt in the past.
4. Response and Measures Taken by the Government upon June 22 Earthquake. The
Government formulated a two-stage strategy for responding to the June 22nd earthquake. The first
stage involved rescue and relief operations, while the second involved rehabilitation and
reconstruction efforts. The first stage was mobilized immediately after the event. The Ministry of
Interior and the Islamic Red Crescent Society took the lead role in relief operations and provided
stockpiles of tents and emergency supplies. All levels of government were mobilized within few
hours to deal with the disaster. Emergency services in adjacent provinces were also mobilized,
and the Government relief strategy focused primarily on providing emergency shelter to the
inhabitants of the affected areas. Potable water and basic sanitation facilities were also provided,
as were food supplies and clothing. Volunteers and staff from neighboring Provinces with
experience in earthquake recovery were transferred to the four stricken Provinces and started the
task of removing rubble from main roads, repairing key bridges, re-establishing power
substations, tapping temporary water sources, providing basic sanitation facilities and setting-up
temporary health clinics. During that stage, the GOI also received emergency relief support from
a large number of countries and international organizations including the Red Cross, The Red
Crescent and agencies affiliated to the United Nations.



2
5. The second stage of the Government's response has focused on reconstructing and
rehabilitating the affected Provinces. The Government reconstruction efforts were incorporated
into the exiting Guidance Plans for affected cities and villages. The main concern of the second
stage was providing permanent shelter to those inhabitants with severely damaged houses in the
fifteen villages that were required to resettlement prior to the advent of harsh winter weather. To
the Government's credit, this concern was substantially addressed by October 2002. Current
reconstruction priorities include the restoration of basic social and public infrastructure, such as
schools and health centers, potable water, sanitation, electricity, and telecommunications, and the
provision of economic opportunities to the affected population to help restore their income and
revive the local economy.
6. The GOI has already provided emergency reconstruction funds equal to US$40million under
the reconstruction program. These were partly allocated for housing credits to inhabitants of
severely damaged houses. The GOI funding covered also key infrastructure works such as potable
water supply and basic sanitation.
Table 1: Reconstruction program proposed by sector (excluding the Housing component)_
(Source Minisry of ntleror, GOI, Augum 2002)
Qazvin                     Zanjan                  Hamedan
Sector                 No of     Estimated cost  %  No. of Estimated cost  %  No of  Estimated  %
projects  (million IR)      projects (million IR)    projects   cost
(million IR)
I Education centers           82         20,355 00 15%    29         1,747  5%      78     17,347   41%
2 Rural water supply and       79           16,020 12%    24        18,400 56%      48      9,750   23%
sanitation
3 Government buildings         14            7,808  6%                               9      1,250    3%
4 Health centers              17             2,300  2%    13          755  2%       50      1,453    3%
5 Public baths                21             2,300  2%                              51      2,262    5%
6 Agriculture                 43            10,420  8%
7 Rural roads                  9            24,594 19%                              34      9,194   22%
8 Electricity                  5             8,329  6%               1,478  4%      19       600     1%
9 Telecommunications                         5,000  4%                112  0%       29       476     1%
10 Municipal assets                         22,274 17%
11 Cultural heritage                         5,300  4%
12 Religious property          48            6,980  5%               2,000  6%
13 Urban water supply and       4             920   1%    15         8,500 26%
sanitation
TOTAL      322           132,600 100%  81        32,992 100%     511     42,332  100%
7. Donors' support. Aside from the in-kind support, which was available immediately after the
earthquake, donors' pledges of support have been relatively slow and modest. To date, German
Technical Cooperation has agreed to grant 0.5 million Euros for the reconstruction of six school
building complexes in the earthquake-affected areas of Hamedan Province. These activities are
expected to be completed by July 2003. It is anticipated that the Bank's support will leverage
donor interest in supporting the GOI's reconstruction efforts.
8. April 2002 Earthquake in Kermanshah. Subsequently, the Government has requested for
the inclusion of Kermanshah Province in the Bank-financed reconstruction program. Significant
parts of Dinawar and small areas of Humeh Counties in Sahneh Township were struck by
earthquake at 00:13 AM, on April 25, 2002, which had a magnitude of 4.8 on the Richter scale,
and again at 00:18 AM. The second earthquake had a magnitude of 5.2 on the Richter scale.
Aftershocks were felt at 07:01 AM (3.5 on the Richter scale), 8:33 AM (4.3 on the Richter scale),
and 12:25 PM (4.2 on the Richter scale). The earthquake's depth was reported to have been
approximately 33 Km, and damage estimates amounted to US$45 million.



3
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
9. Country's seismic risks and their impacts. Iran is known to be one of the most earthquake
prone countries in the world. With two major seismic belts, the entire country faces moderate to
very high seismic risks. O'ne runs along the Zagros Mountains in southern Iran, along the Persian
Gulf, while the other runs through northern Iran around the Caspian Sea. Earthquakes in the
northern belt are particularly hazardous as many people live in this region. This northern seismic
belt connects the tectonic activity in Turkey, to the west, with the on-going mountain building
and seismicity in the Himalayas to the east. In the 20th century alone, twenty large earthquakes
have claimed more than 140,000 lives, destroyed many villages and cities, and caused extensive
economic damage to the country. Table I below provides a snapshot of the eight largest
earthquakes in Iran from 1957 to 1997.
Table 2. Loss of Life and Direct Property Damages from 8 Largest Earthquakes in 1957-97.'
Year          Location                     Magnitude     No of Deaths   Damage (US$)
(Richter scale)
1957          Amol                                       1,200
1962          Bueen Zahra                  7 2           12,000         12 milhon
1968          Khoraian                     7 4           12,100         40 mlion
1972          Firoozabad                   6 9           5,044          5 milhon
1978          Tabas                        7 7           20,00(0        tl million
1990          Gdan/Zanjan                  7 2           5(1,00ti       I bili(on
1997          Ardekul/Bmrrand/Boinoord/Ardebi/Ghaen  7 3  1,600         5(10 million
10. Recurrent earthquakes, which have broad economic and fiscal consequences, oln average
destroy over one percent of the national housing stock annually. From  1999 to 2001 alone,
government subsidies to homeowners affected by natural disasters were in excess of annual
average of US$1 billion, which amounts to 1.3 percent of GDP2. In the 1990 Gilan/Zanjan
earthquake, the cost to reconstruct housing, agriculture, energy, education, water supply, heath
and transport facilities, was estimated as US$990 million.
11. Vulnerability and future risks in the areas affected by the April 2002 and June 2002
Earthquake. The major vulnerability derives from the fact that in areas affected by the
earthquake, housing construction relies on traditional methods in which mud bricks are typically
utilized without structural reinforcement. These local construction methods have a poor seismic
safety record, particularly for low-income households,-and are a main cause of fatalities following
earthquakes in the region.
12. Poverty is another element of vulnerability. As indicated in the Human Development
Indicalors, the affected provinces are amongst the poorest regions in the country.  Agricultural
activities, the primary source of income, have been adversely affected, and the population is
deprived of its main source of income.  In addition, the remote access of these villages makes it
difficult to deliver materials and support needed for reconstruction of their livelihoods.
13. Furthermore, according to the Iranian Red Crescent Society (IRIRCS), the affected provinces
have historically received less attention in improving disaster management capacities, as
compared to other earthquake areas, such as Gilan and Zanjan. Infrastructure needed to support
relief activities, such as relief centers for stocking goods and organizing volunteers, have not been
fully established. The June earthquake is viewed as an opportunity to boost the populations'
1 Mission Report: Natural Disasters Insurance Component for the Proposed Emergency Response Project,
September, 2002, The World Bank
2 Ibid.



4
interest in strengthening the base for emergency response. The IRIRCS plans to construct relief
centers in these areas, and to provide a series of training programs for local volunteers.
14. Institutional capacity of emergency response and disaster management in Iran. Serious
attention by GOI to emergency response and disaster management seems to have emerged after
the 1990 RashtlGilan earthquake.  In 1991, the Consultative Assembly assigned formal
responsibility for disaster management to the Ministry of the Interior (MOI) by virtue of the
Budget Act of the same year. The Minister was delegated to deal with natural disasters, which up
to that time, were discharged by a special task force within the Office of the President. Also, in
line with the UN's International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, the Assembly enacted
the "Act of the Formation of the National Committee for Reduction of Natural Disaster's Impact
and delegated responsibility for implementation to MOI in 1991.
15. Under these legislative initiatives, MOI is responsible for developing policy, providing
guidance, overseeing supervision, and coordinating disaster management and post disaster
activities. These activities include coordinating rescue and relief operations, temporary
settlement and reconstruction with all respected government agencies. To carry out this function,
MOI established three main structures:
o   NCRNDI: National Committee for Reduction of Natural Disasters' Impact
o   NDTF: National Disaster Task Force;
o   BSCSR: The Bureau for Studies and Coordination of Safety and Reconstruction
Affairs, which serves as a coordinating secretariat for the above two structures.
16. These three structures with their national, provincial and local subdivisions are supported by
agencies assigned with direct executive responsibilities under the MOI's supervision, namely: (a)
the Iranian Red Crescent Society and Armed Forces (rescue and relief); (b) sector ministries
(reconstruction of each sector except housing);(c) Housing Foundation (housing reconstruction);
and (d) the Institute of Earthquake Engineering and Seismology; (e) Natural Disaster Institute of
Iran; (f) Building and Housing Research Center; and International Institute of Seismology and
Earthquake (g) the Management and Planning Organization-MPO (budget arrangements of all
the reconstruction operations).
17. The experience of the Zanjan and Gilan Earthquake in 1990 served as a turning point in the
country's emergency response system, and relief and rescue capacity has improved considerably.
In three devastating earthquakes that occurred between February and May 1997, 95 percent of
people were rescued within first 24 hours of an earthquake, and all affected people were settled in
70,000 tents, which served as temporary shelters, within 48 hours. Ninety percent of electricity
supplies were recovered within 24 hours, and 100 percent within 48 hours of an earthquake.
18. Two shortcomings remain in the country's disaster management system. First, while the
emergency response capacity has improved considerably, it is not sufficient to respond to a large
earthquake or a natural disaster in large urban areas, like Tehran. Second, disaster management
and planning systems need to be improved, both at the local and national levels, particularly with
respect to preparedness and risk mitigation. Better inter-agency coordination on all aspects
(research and development, training and application) and all stages of disaster management
(prevention, relief, reconstruction) is needed to enable smoother transition from relief to
reconstruction, and to better prepare for future potential disasters.



5
19. In Summary: (a) the GOI's capacity to respond quickly to emergencies involving search and
rescue activities has considerably improved over the past decade, given its experience with wars
and previous earthquakes; and (b) institutional mechanisms have been established under the
Ministry of Interior for responding to emergencies. However, risk mitigation and preparedness
aspects of the disaster management systems need strengthening, both at the national and local
levels, including the enforcement of building codes, implementation of early warning systems,
and public education. This is crucial in view of the fact that Iran is prone to earthquakes, and
earthquakes have had debilitating consequences on the country's economy. Better inter-agency
coordination on all aspects (research and development, training and application) and all stages of
disaster management (prevention, relief, reconstruction) is needed to enable smoother transition
from relief to reconstruction, and to better prepare for future potential disasters.
20. Rationale for Bank's Involvement. The Rationale for the Bank's involvement should be
viewed in the context of Iran's vulnerability to natural hazards, and the Bank's international
experience in this area. Between 1980 and 1999, the Bank lent approximately US$8 billion for
post-disaster reconstruction, which brought about a broad consensus that the focus of the Bank's
disaster assistance should shift to reducing long-term risk and vulnerability. While floods and
earthquakes will continue to occur, it is in conjunction with the built environment that they turn
into deadly disasters. The Bank's focus on disaster prevention focuses on: (a) assisting clients in
implementing measures to minimize the likelihood of occurrence of natural and man-made
disasters; (b) integrating disaster mitigation into development efforts; and (c) building a national
culture of prevention and preparedness. Considering the Bank's broad international experience in
multiple risk and vulnerability reduction, it is in a unique position to assist the Government of
Iran through a comprehensive reconstruction program supported by a technical assistance
program on disaster management. It is expected that the Bank's assistance will serve as a basis
to draw the interests of other donors in assisting the Government of Iran.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
21. The proposed EERP covers a portion of the overall government reconstruction program and
consists of: (a) housing reconstruction through the provision of building material, mechanical
equipment, technical assistance and construction supervision; (b) rehabilitation and
reconstruction of damaged social and public infrastructure mainly schools, health facilities and
water and sanitation facilities; (c) improving the economic opportunities of the population of
the affected areas; (d) project management and capacity building aimed at improving the
natural disaster management capacity in Iran and (e) setting the foundation for the preparation
in the future of a disaster insurance scheme in Iran.
22. T he total cost of the proposed project is estimated to be US$225 million, of which US$180
million would be financed from IBRD financing. The three-year Emergency Recovery Loan
would include the following components: (a) Reconstruction of housing, social and public
infrastructure; (b) Economic recovery for vulnerability reduction; (c) Capacity building and
project management; and, (d) Disaster Insurance preparation.



6
Component-A: Reconstruction of Housing, Social and Public Infrastructure
(US1$72million)
Sub-Component A.1l: Housing Repair and Reconstruction and Purchase of Mechanical
Equipment (US$73m!llion)
23. This sub-component will fund: (a) the purchase of building material (US$40 million) for the
repair and on-site reconstruction of permanent houses; and, (b) the purchase of mechanical
construction equipment (US$33million).
Housing Repair and Reconstruction (US$40mifion)
24. The EERP will finance the repair of 15,232 houses that are 20%-50% damaged and the
reconstruction of 14.041 houses that are 50%-100% damaged. The EERP will only fund housing
repair and reconstruction projects that are in compliance with the following eligibility criteria:
o   Damage or destruction occurred after the earthquakes of April 25, 2002 or the earthquake of
June 22, 2002.
o   Household has already secured a loan from the HF
o   Project design and estimated cost completed
o   Environmental screening completed in a satisfactory manner
o   Local counterpart funds secured from Government or Provincial budget
o   Prior approval of MPO is secured
25. The EERP will promote the use of seismic resistant construction techniques in the repair and
on-site reconstruction of permanent houses. The Housing Foundation (HF) will procure in bulk
the building material for the repair and reconstruction of damaged houses. The cost of both
building material and construction labor will be met by individual house-owners who will use the
proceeds of housing loans to be provided by the HF. The latter will determine the amount and
allocation of building material to be procured under the project and will be also responsible for
the provision of technical assistance and construction supervision.
26. The distribution and total cost of repair and reconstruction is shown in the table below:
Table 3: Earthquake Damage to the Housing Sector source HoUA'ngFrOuzallon, Ociober 2002)
Name of Total Number of Damaged Housing Number of Housing Housing Units to be  Total Number of  Total Cost of
Province           Units              Units being   reconstructed by  Houses to be repaired  repair and
reconstructed by the  the EERP   and reconstructed  reconstruction
Housing Foundation               under the EERP
20-50%   50%-100%  Total 50-l100% danage level 50%-100% damage  No.      (USS million)
damage level damage level                       level
Qazvin      2,154      8,285  10,439      3,764           4,521           6,675             14 31
Hamedan      7,149    11,754  18,903      3,058           8,696          15,845             16 88
Zanjan      3,452      3,079   6,531      2,580           499             3,951              6 93
Kermanshah  2,477      2,377  4,854       2,052           325             2,802              1 88
TOTAL       15,232    25,495  40,727     11,454          14,041          29,273            40.00
27. House reconstruction will be carried-out using three types of house construction models
(refer to Attachment 4). These will be determined according to the choice of the house-owner and
will depend on the availability of building material, the size of the house, the soil type and



7
location. For Type-I and Type-IIl houses, the soil excavation for the house foundations and the
transportation and on-site installation of the steel frames for individual houses will be contracted-
out separately by the IHF.
Table 4: Unit Cost of House Reconstruction
ITEM                  Unit  TYPE-I     TYPE-Il     TYPE-Ill
I   Cost ofbasic building material (inc  tR  19,191,700  17,712,200  16,233,150
transportation)
2   Construction labor cost (on-site)  IR    7,258,100    5,334,000  5,434,700
3   Excavation for the house foundations  IR   41,000       36,900     35,670
4   Transportation and on-site installation of steel  IR  350,000  -  200,000
frame
TOTAL                                  IR    26,840,800  23,083,100  21,903,520
TOTAL                                  US$       3,372       2,900      2,752
Source: The Housing Foundation, October 2002- IUS$=7960 IR
28. Building on past experience, the Housing Foundation estimates that the distribution of house
reconstruction types across the four Provinces will be as follows:
Table 5: Estimated distribution of house construction type by Province
PROVINCES              TYPE-I              TYPE-ll         TYPE-1ll
I   Qazvin                40%                 10%              50%
2   Zanjan                30%                 10%              60%
3   Hamedan               40%                 10%              50%
4   Kermanshah            40%                 10%              50%
Source. Alue Houmig Founidatioti, Ociober 2002- IUSS=7960 IR
Procurement of Mechanical Equipment (US$33million)
29. This sub-component includes the purchase of reconstruction equipment for the "Machinery
Bank Organization" (MBO) of the Housing Foundation. Equipment to be procured includes
machines for the removal of debris and rubble, site preparation, transport of construction
materials, plant equipment for the Housing Foundation.
30. Background to the "Machinery Bank Organization". The Machinery Bank
Organization is a holding company of the Housing Foundation. It was initially created to respond
to disasters and emergencies. It has since become involved in the construction of low income
housing in Iran and also for the operation and maintenance of 1,016 units of construction
equipment. Around 78% of the equipment used by the MBO is leased from the private sector
while the Housing Foundation owns 22%. The maintenance of the equipment is normally
contracted-out to the private sector and the MBO holds a stock of essential spare parts for a
period of 6 months. The MBO follows a procurement policy that relies on international
companies with local dealers that are able to secure maintenance and adequate supply of spare
parts.



8
Rationale for the procurement of new mechanical construction equipment:
31. Old Stock. As is shown in the tables below, around 96% of the construction equipment in
the central stock and 91% of the equipment in the provinces is more than 10 years old. Out of the
latter, around 50% are non-operational. This situation has resulted in low productivity during
emergencies in addition to high expenditure on operation and maintenance costs. More that 75%
of the MBO income is used for maintenance and repair.
32. Large Volume of Debris to be Cleared. The earthquake of June 2002 has left a massive
volume of building debris to be cleared from the affected villages. This operation will require the
extensive use of heavy construction machinery and equipment that is in a working order.
33. Lack of Accessibility to Building Material. Most of the affected villages are located in
remote mountainous regions. Access roads are poorly paved making the delivery of building
material (such as bricks, pipes, etc...) time consuming. Furthermore, distances between the
affected villages and the steel manufacturing and cement production centers are about l,000 km
and 300 km respectively.
34. Lack of private sector activities in the affected areas. Being widely scattered and located
in low-income and remote areas, the affected villages have not attracted large of volume of
construction activities in the past. Private contractors are not widely present or suppliers of
building material. This has made the cost of relying on private contractors for the removal of
debris, transportation of building material and reconstruction quite prohibitive.
Table 6: Equipment Distribution by Age-Central Stock (Tehran)
EQUIPMENT                    Total    Age < 2    S<Age<10    Age>10     Non-     % from
years      years       years  operational  TOTAL
1. Bulldozer                     29                              29        11       38%
2. Loader                        89         2            3        84        42      47%
3. Motor Grader                  32         5                     27        7       22%
4. Roller Truck                  61         4            9        48         7      11%
5. Backhoe shovel                 4                               4          1      25%
6. Tractor                        19     .      .     _  _        19        10      52%
7. Trailer                       881                             81         6        7%
S. Dumper Truck                  612        7           60       545       380      62%
9. Water Tanker                  56                               56        41      73%
10. Truck Mixer                  11                               11        7       64%
11. Others                       21_                             21         0
TOTAL        1015       18           72      925       512      50%
% distribution by age  100%      2%           7%      91%
(Source. The Machme Baik Organizaluo,, The Housng Foutduation December 2002)



9
Table 7: Equipment Distribution by Age-Provincial Stock
EQUIPMENT                       Age < 2 years  5<Age<10 years    Age>10 years     TOTAL
Bulldozer                                                                    23        23
Loader                                     2                3                65        70
Motor Grader                               2                                 22        24
Roller Truck                               2                5                40        47
Mechanical Digger                                                             3         3
Tractor                                                                      17        17
Trailer                                                                      80         80
Compressor Truck                           7               60               400       467
Water Tanker                                                                 49        49
Truck Mixer                                                                   7         7
Others                                                                       21        21
TOTAL               13               68              727        808
% distribution by age         2%               8%               90%       100%
Sotirce. The Machinie Bank Organization. 7he Housiag Foundation. October 2002)
35. Requirements of Machinery and Equipments.                Around 60%      of the equipment to be
procured under the EERP is destined to replace old stock while 40% will add to the response
capacity of the MBO in emergency situations. The newly procured equipment will be widely used
for reconstruction activities thus securing a steady income for the MBO. This, in turn, will help to
provide the necessary funding for the operation and maintenance of the equipment. It is worth
noting that the balance sheet of the MBO for 2001-2001 is in surplus and that during the last five
years, the MBO has been reporting net profits. Finally, a numerical model for the distribution of
the equipment between the various provinces is used by the MBO and relies mainly on
parameters such as population, size and number of projects.
Table 8: Equipment to be procured under the EERP
EQUIPMENT                         Number of    Estimated Unit Cost  Estimated Total Cost    Estimated Total Cost
Units         (IR million)         (IR million)            (USS million)
1.  Loader                               30                 1300              39,000 00                       4.88
2.  Grader                                15                 1700             25,500 00                       3 19
3.  Double Dumper Truck                  180                 700             126,00000                       1575
4.  Single Double Truck                   30                 600              18,000 00                       2 25
5.  Buldozer D8                            5                2700              13,500 00                       1 69
6.  Buldozer D6                            5                2200              11,000 00                       1 38
7.  Trick Mixer                            5                 1200              6,000 00                       0 75
8.  Backhoe Shovel                         8                 1100              8,80000                        1 10
9.  Mobile sand and gravel station     -  4                 2880              11,520 00                       1 40
10. 4 -WD Vehicles (Pick-Ups)            20                  250               5,000 00                       0 63
TOTAL                                                264,320.00                      33.00
Source: The Machine Bank Organizahon, The Housing Foundatiot December 2002 - (I US$=8000Rials)
Sub-Component A.2: Social Infrastructure (US$27million)
36. This sub-component will finance the rebuilding and repair of damaged social infrastructure,
such as schools and health clinics in affected areas. The social infrastructure will be reconstructed
according to sector standards and regulations, and the corresponding sector Ministry and/or
agency will ensure enforcement of these norms.



10
37. The EERP will only fund the repair and reconstruction of social infrastructure projects that
comply with the following criteria: (a) damage or destruction occurred after the earthquakes of
April 2002 and June 2002; (b) the damage already surveyed by the sector ministry or utility; (c)
project design and cost estimates completed according to sector specifications; (d) environmental
screening completed in a satisfactory manner; (e) environmental mitigation measures (if any) are
already incorporated in the project design; (f) local counterpart funds secured from Government
or Provincial budget; and (g) the prior approval of MPO is already secured.
38. EERP Support to the Health Sector. A large number of health and medical centers were
partially or totally damaged as a result of the earthquakes of April and June 2002. Engineers from
the "Organization for Renovation Development and Equipment of National Schools" of the
Ministry of Education have already inspected and surveyed damages to educational centers in the
four provinces. Urgent reconstruction and repair activities are required in order to restore and
strengthen the basic health services provided at these centers. Furthermore, considering that most
of the affected villages are far from major cities, and that the area is located in a disaster-prone
region, strengthening the capacity of health centers is of prime importance. Reconstruction and
repair of health infrastructure facilities damaged by the earthquake will further contribute to
government efforts aiming at reducing child and women mortality rates in the four provinces. As
shown in the table below, EERP financing covers a large part (75%-80%) of reported sector
damages and typical projects include the construction and equipping of: (a) health and medical
centers; (b) village clinics; (c) emergency units and; (d) the procurement of ambulances and
medical equipment for hospitals.
39. EE1RP Support to the Education Sector. The earthquakes of April and June 2002 and the
ensuing after-shocks have caused considerable damage and the destruction to a number of public
schools and educational centers in the affected areas. These are largely inhabited by a young
population and restoring access to education at all levels is a govemment priority. As shown in
the table below, EERP financing covers a large part (60%) of reported sector damages and typical
projects include the construction and equipping of a number of: (a) elementary, (b) secondary
and (c) high schools; (d) girl's boarding schools and; (e) replacement of instructional materials
and fumiture.
40. EERP Support to the Strengthening of Emergency Services and IKey Public Buildings.
This component will finance activities that will strengthen emergency services and upgrade key
public buildings that must remain safe during and after an earthquake. Typical projects include:
(a) the construction of a new fire station building in Hamedan and the structural strengthening
and; (b) upgrading of city hospitals, city schools, emergency medical centers, drinking water
networks and fire station buildings.
Sub-Component A.3: Public Infrastructure (US$72million)
41. This sub-component will finance the rebuilding and repairing of damaged public
infrastructure, such as water and drainage networks, telephone, power, road and electric systems
in affected areas. Similarly to sub-component A-2 above, public infrastructure would be
reconstructed according to sector standards and regulations. The corresponding utility or
regulatory agency would ensure enforcement of these norms. This component is expected to
generate temporary employment for skilled and semi-skilled laborers through construction
activities in the affected areas.



I1
42. The EERP will only fund the repair and reconstruction of public infrastructure projects that
comply with the following criteria: (a) damage or destruction occurred after the earthquakes of
April 2002 and June 2002; (b) the damage already surveyed by the sector ministry or utility; (c)
project design and cost estimates completed according to sector specifications; (d) environmental
screening completed in a satisfactory manner; (e) environmental mitigation measures (if any) are
already incorporated in the project design; (f) local counterpart funds secured from Government
or Provincial budget; and,(g) the prior approval of MPO is already secured.
43. EERP Support to the Telecommunications Sector. The telecommunications infrastructure
suffered severe damages as a result of the two earthquakes. Telecommunication centers were
destroyed, networks were severely damaged and communications were disrupted. The EERP will
support government efforts to restore telecommunication services and will finance the installation
of telecommunication networks in areas of new settlements built adjacent to the destroyed
villages. The project will also finance: (a) the reconstruction of damaged communication centers;
(b). telecommunications networks; (c) the establishment of BTS, BSC, MSC systems for
improving the telecommunication system in the affected regions; and, (d) the procurement of
equipment such as fiber optics cable, switches, etc.
44. EERP Support to the Water Sector. Access to water was severely disrupted following the
earthquakes of April and June 2002. Trunk mains and secondary networks were damaged and a
number of water wells, pumping equipment and chlorination facilities were fully destroyed.
Underground water levels decreased as the groundwater was diverted as a result of the
earthquake. The EERP will support the restoration of water supply to the affected areas and will
finance: (a) the construction of deep water-wells; (b) the repair and reconstruction of water
networks; and, (c) the procurement of pumping and chlorination equipment.
45. EERP Support to the Sewerage Sector. The project will help accelerate the implementation
of both on-going and new sewerage projects in the affected areas through the provision of
financing for the construction of networks and a limited number of sewerage treatment plants.
46. EERP Support to the Electricity Sector. The project will support the repair of the electrical
infrastructure damaged during the earthquake. It will also finance the installation of electrical
networks in areas of new settlements built adjacent to the destroyed villages. The project will
restore the power supply to affected areas through the reconstruction of low, middle and high
distribution and transmission networks.
47. EERP Support to the Road Sector. The road network has been the highest affected sector
resulting from the earthquakes of April and June 2002. A number of provincial rural roads and
poorly designed bridges were severely damaged. Also, the frequent movement of heavy relief and
rescue machinery has added to the road damage and severe cracks were noted on bridges and
rural roads. Restoring the quality of the road network in the affected areas is important to the
regional economy and the EERP will finance the asphalting and strengthening of key roads and
bridges in the region.
48. EERP Support to the Improvement of Local Roads and Street Infrastructure. Major
damages occurred to local roads and street infrastructure in the affected cities and villages.
Repairing that damage and restoring the rural and urban fabric of the villages and cities is key to
improving the living environment in the region. The EERP is an opportunity to upgrade the local
street infrastructure in the affected areas. This will be achieved by improving the, quality of local
roads such as asphalting gravel roads and streets, providing sidewalks in order to improve public
safety and implementing the key infrastructure projects of the village guidance plans.



12
Component B: Economic Recovery for vulnerability reduction (IUS$36milliou)
49. To support economic recovery in the affected areas, a component is proposed to finance
investments in earthquake-affected provinces that would seek to strengthen the base for local
economic development. The component would reduce vulnerability to natural disasters by
improving the well being of the population. The provincial government will play a key role in
defining investments and in coordinating activities with relevant sector ministries.  The
investments, which would focus mainly on agricultural services and infrastructure, would be
selected based on the following criteria:
o Feasibility studies that are acceptable to the IBRD, and which meet sectoral standards.
o Satisfactory completion of the environmental screening process;
o An identified source of counterpart funds to undertake operation and maintenance
(O&M) activities; and,
o Prior approval of MPO has been obtained.
Component C: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$13.7million)
50. Capacity Building for Disaster Management. This sub-component seeks to build disaster
management capacity both at national and local levels. Following on the institutional needs that
have surfaced since the 1990 Earthquake Recovery Project, the would support the Government's
efforts to address priority issues of improving institutional capacity in disaster management, and
in particular, strengthening preparedness for future natural disasters. Based on discussions with
the Government, and in consideration of the on-going initiatives of other donors such as UNDP,
strategic priorities to be addressed by Projects were agreed as follows:
o   Policy Review: Stocktaking of past national and local emergency response experiences in
Iran. An independent team of international experts would review emergency preparedness
and culminate in the identification of policy, institutional and physical interventions to
reduce catastrophic losses from natural disasters;
o   Public Awareness/Media Program: This activity would enhance national and local level
awareness of important preventive measures to minimize the risks in future disasters. The
activity would include: launch of a public awareness campaign on disaster preparedness,
production of short-films and booklets, and educational sessions for the public;
o   Training on construction and application of building codes for local engineers;
o  Training for local builders and the beneficiary population;
o  Training on the risks and vulnerability evaluation of buildings for local engineers;
o  Support for research institutions and laboratories for pilot studies, and to carry out analysis
and testing of earthquake resistant construction technology; and
o  Studies and research on earthquake preparedness and mitigation.
51. Project Management & Consultfing Services. This sub-component would help finance: (a)
project management costs, such as staffing and equipment costs of the Project Management Unit
(PMU); (b) fees for project implementation to be paid to the Housing Foundation towards
managing both Component-A and Component-B; and (c) consulting services (firms and
individuals) to prepare feasibility studies, undertake design work, develop tender documents, and
supervise construction activities.



13
Component D: Disaster Insurance Preparation (3.3US$million)
52. The component launch initial feasibility work to establish systems, a legal framework, and
training Iranian service providers. Under this Component, the following activities would be
undertaken:
53. Risk Management Study of Earthquake and Flood Exposures in Iran (US$0.5 million).
The study will quantify the earthquake and flood exposures of Iran to determnine the pricing of
catastrophe insurance and reinsurance coverage and the amount of reinsurance coverage needed
to protect the expected risk accumulations of the Iranian Catastrophe Insurance Pool (ICIP). The
study will focus on (a) analyzing the hazards; (b) collecting the vulnerability data on the assets
(housing stock and main infrastructure) at risk; (c) determining the vulnerability functions of
major assets classes; (d) modeling the expected Probable Maximum and Annual Loss. Besides
producing the data for developing detailed rating guidelines, the study will also deliver Iran
specific earthquake and flood models which can be used later on by the ICIP to determine the
actuarial cost of the risk in reinsurance placements.
54. Comparative Analysis of International Disaster Insurance Models and the Development
of an appropriate Natural Disasters Insurance Model for Iran (US$ 0.2million). The study
will review and undertake a comparative analysis of international disaster insurance models
and will develop an appropriate natural disasters insurance model for Iran.
55. Preparation of Natural Disasters Insurance Law (US$0.1 million). The nature of this
activity is to have an experienced international consultancy (preferably, a joint venture), assist the
government in preparing a credible Natural Disasters Insurance Law. In advising the government,
the consultant will consider the best international practices available in managing catastrophe
risks as well as the requirements unique for Iran. In particular, the draft law should reflect the
experience of the California Earthquake Authority, New Zealand Earthquake Commission, and
the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool.
56. Study Tour for the Program Staff and the Key Government Decision Makers
(US$0.1million). The study tour intends to familiarize the program staff and the key Iranian
policy makers involved in the preparation of the program with the best international experience
available in the area of national catastrophe risk management. The study tour will introduce them
to the operations of the largest catastrophe insurance programs around the world such as CEA
(California Earthquake Authority), Florida Hurricane Reinsurance Pool, the Turkish Catastrophe
Insurance Pool and other relevant case studies. In addition, the Iranian delegation will be briefed
on the functioning of risk transfer markets, both reinsurance and alternative risk transfer markets
by major international reinsurers, reinsurance brokers and risk modeling consultancies.
57. Operational Guidelines, Rating Guidelines, and Policy Terms and Conditions
(US$0.2million). The consultancy is expected to result in the preparation of operational
guidelines, rating guidelines and policy terms and conditions for the ICIP.
58. In preparing the operational guidelines, a due consideration will be given to the envisaged
institutional design of the Iranian program under the draft Earthquake Insurance Law and the
operational design of similar programs in Turkey, New Zealand and the United States.
59. The preparation of rating guidelines will involve finding a right tradeoff between the
complexity of the rating structure and its applicability in Iran. At minimum, however, the



14
operational guidelines will reflect such individual risk characteristics of residential dwellings as
(a) proximity of properties to earthquake faults or river deltas;(b) housing vulnerability
characteristics such as type of construction, and age of housing.
60. The preparation of policy terms and conditions will consider the local insurance regulations
and practices.
61. Building Surveys/GIS Data-bases (US$o.5 million). The proposed study aims to develop
comprehensive data bases of buildings in major Iranian cities for the purposes of reducing the
processing time needed for issuing catastrophe insurance policies and thus for reducing the
program administration costs in the future. The study will result in the creation of Geographic
Informational Systems' databases to be used in the day-to-day operations of the ICIP.
62. Training of Building Loss Adjusters (US$1.0 million). Provision of insurance coverage to
millions of the Iranian homeowners will require the developed infrastructure for insurance
services. Swift, consistent and professional adjustment of insurance claims in the aftermath of a
major natural disaster is an essential prerequisite of a well-functioning national catastrophe
insurance program. Although numerous qualified civil/structural engineers can be found in Iran,
currently there are no professional loss adjusters for residential dwellings. The assignment aims to
create a national training program for the Iranian loss adjusters which will produce hundreds of
qualified Iranian insurance professionals trained in modern international techniques for assessing
residential property damages.
63. Advisory Services (US$0.7 million). Qualified local and foreign insurance professionals will
be retained under the insurance component to assist the government with the implementation of
the insurance component and to work on the preparation of the launch of the ICIP. These
professionals will act as a Technical Secretariat of the Intergovernmental Steering Committee on
Disaster Insurance, advising the government on key technical matters involved in the
implementation of the World Bank financed program and the launch of the national insurance
scheme. It is envisaged that the staff of the PIU will assume key management roles in the ICIP
once it is launched. This sub-component will finance the salaries of the professional staff (I
foreign insurance professional, 2-3 local insurance experts) and the overhead costs of running the
Technical Secretariat for 3 consecutive years.
D. INSTITUTIONAL AEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
SAFEGUARD
64. Social Aspects. The social impacts of the two earthquakes have been harsh. The proposed
Project would have a positive impact on restoring economic livelihoods through the provision of
housing and, basic social infrastructure. The main social concern is restoring peoples' livelihoods
as rapidly as possible. Since the August 2002 mission, the Government has completed the
emergency resettlement of inhabitants in the fifteen affected villages with its own financing.
Therefore, the Project will not involve any involuntary resettlement and will not trigger O.P.4. 12.
O.P. 4.20 on indigenous peoples does not apply because persons affected by the project are
neither vulnerable ethnic minority nor scheduled as tribal people within the provisions of Iranian
law.
65. Environmental aspects. The overall environmental impact of the proposed Project is
expected to be positive in that it supports the restoration of necessary social and housing
infrastructure in areas heavily damaged by the earthquake. Potentially negative environmental



15
issues are primarily associated with the construction works, such as land clearing, disposal of
debris and worker safety. Safe water and sanitation facilities need to be ensured in the case of
school construction. To address these issues, and based on the best-practice models in similar
ERL operations, environmental screening criteria have been prepared and were agreed during
negotiations. The Government will secure adequate funding to screen and monitor the
environmental impacts during implementation.
66. The Project is rated as a category "B," which requires the preparation of an Environmental
Management Plan. Under normal Bank processing, official receipt and clearance of the EMP by
the Bank and public disclosures of the EMP both in Iran and the Bank's Infoshop will be a
prerequisite for appraisal. Given the nature of the operations (being processed under the OP 8.50
on Emergency Recovery Loan) and the proposed activities for Bank financing, an exemption has
been obtained from the Bank's senior management for any detailed environmental assessment by
appraisal. The Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (including a mitigation and
monitoring plan) was drafted and discussed during negotiations. This has been compiled in a
Technical Annex and will be made publicly available in Iran and delivered officially to the Bank
prior to Board presentation. During project implementation, all proposed subprojects would be
screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks could be adequately addressed through
the application of the standardized guidelines of practice provided in the Environment and Social
Safeguards Framework.
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
67. Directions on overall project management are provided by the NCRNDI serving as the
Project Steering Committee. The NCRNDI will make major decisions and provide advice on the
key direction of the project. The NCRNDI is chaired by the MOI and its membership includes
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, Management and Planning Organization (MPO),
Iranian Red Crescent Society, most sectoral ministries and a number of research institutes. The
representatives of the provincial governments of Qazvin, Zanjan, Hamedan and Kermanshah will
be represented through MOI.
68. Reporting to the NCRNDI will be the newly created Project Management Unit (PMU), which
will solely serve the proposed project. The PMU is comprised of a team of qualified specialists
that will be housed in the MOI for the project's duration. Its main function is to carry out the
day-to-day activities of project management, serve as the main focal point in coordinating project
preparation and implementation with all entities involved, and prepare quarterly reports indicating
physical implementation data, as well as financial information related to commitments and
disbursements from the loan. The financial management specialist of the PMU will be appointed
by September 30, 2003.
69. Housing reconstruction under Component A The housing reconstruction will be directly
implemented by the Housing Foundation (HF), which will establish a Contract Management Unit
(CMU) comprising a project manager, a procurement officer, a liaison officer, an information
technology officer, an environmental specialist, and supervising officers. The HF will play a
central role in the procurement of goods and services needed for the housing rehabilitation and in
implementing the physical works. The HF will mobilize the affected communities and, with the
help of outside consultants, will prepare bidding documents and launch the procurement process.
Bids will involve the construction of structures without the finishing work. The HF will provide,
under separate competitive bidding, the construction materials, including frames for the homes.
For the finishing work of the housing units, the HF will facilitate and certify commercial loans to
each household in amount of approximately US$2,000 to US$4,000 equivalent. Such loans are



16
provided in installments and require HF's supervision at each stage before subsequent payments
are made.
70. Reconstruction of social and public infrastructure under component A, and execution of
component 1B. The HF, through its CMU, will act as a procurement advisor in assisting the
concerned technical units of sectoral ministries and public utilities in each of the four provinces
affected by the project to prepare the bid documents and launch and evaluate bids. These entities,
with the assistance of HF, will also supervise their own work program.
71. Component C, implementationa of the technical assistance studies and training, will be
directly managed by the PMU in cooperation with research institutes and universities with
expertise in their respective fields.
72. Component D, the Disaster Insurance Preparation, will be carried out by a joint venture
of international and national consultants who will work closely with NCRNDI, MOEAF and
MOHUD, and the Inter-Governmental Committee on Disaster Insurance. The MOEAF has been
designated as the counterpart for the implementation of this Component.
CAPACITY FOR PROJECT IMPLEMlENATION
73. P1MI. Besides the Director, the team will be comprised of a financial management specialist,
Technical Coordinator, an Engineer, an Economist, an Office Manager and other support staff.
To strengthen their role as coordinator during project preparation and implementation, and
reporting requirement, the team members will be provided with basic training on the Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures. The Bank will follow up, particularly during the first
year of implementation, the preparation of procurement documents for hiring consultants. The
MOI, where the PMU is located, has already had experience with the Bank during the first
earthquake project, which was completed in 1996. PMU staff employed in accordance with the
Bank's Consultant Guidelines may be remunerated from the proceeds of the Loan. All other
consultants will be remunerated from the Government's budget.
74. Housing Foundation (lF). The dominant implementing agency HF, which will handle the
bulk of the project funds under components A and B, was assessed during the appraisal mission
as to its organizational structure and its capacity to implement procurement. HF has extensive
experience in handling such activities, and has been active in natural disaster-stricken areas for
the last twenty years. It also worked with the World Bank during the earlier earthquake project.
For the past ten years, HF has coordinated the realization of 595,000 housing units in disaster-
stricken areas, or 75 percent of all houses damaged in various disaster situations. Further, HF has
been responsible for the villages' built environment, including streets and surface water drainage.
HF played a main role in rebuilding the villages following the 1991 earthquake, which left 3000
villages and fifteen cities devastated. While HF facilitated housing loans in all the damaged
villages, it also built about 700 houses as example of safe construction, and built over 50 schools
and 17 health centers in rural areas on behalf of national and international donating bodies.
75. Although the HF has gathered a lot of experience in implementing projects in accordance to
local procurement regulations, the overall project risk for procurement is judged to be high. To
ensure that the PMU/CMU staff receive adequate training on procurement according to Bank
Guidelines, it is proposed that: a) a procurement specialist from the Bank provide initial on-site
training to these staff during the project launch mission; b) a detailed time-scaled training plan for
all PMU/CMU staff dealing with procurement is developed and submitted to the Bank no later
than June 30, 2003; and, c) the provisions are made for the procurement specialists of the PMU



17
and CMU to attend external training, preferably at the ILO offices in Italy, with funding from the
Bank Loan.
PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
76. Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selections
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised
in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. A General Procurement Notice of bidding opportunities and consultant contracts will
be advertised in the UN Development Business before project launching and updated annually for
all outstanding procurement.
77. Where National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out, the procedure must be
acceptable to IBRD which would require:(a) explicit evaluation and award criteria in bid
documents; (b) national advertising with public bid opening; (c) sufficient time for bidders to
submit bids (four weeks usually);(d) no preference margin to domestic contractors or
manufacturers; (e) foreign bidders to participate in NCB if they so wish; and (f) contract award
to be made to the bidder whose offer is substantially responsive and lowest evaluated.
78. Iranian procurement procedures needs to be adapted to Bank requirement under the
procurement guidelines, irrespective of adequate capacity of implementing agencies to handle
procurement and adequate control organization in the country. The Bank's procedures need to be
applied in particular concerning the following issues:
* the use of two envelopes in bidding for works and goods: the envelopes containing the
administrative and technical documents, and the envelope containing the financial offer, will
be opened simultaneously in public and in one single stage, and prices are announced in the
same session; and
* services of consultants: open competitive bidding will not be used. In accordance with the
Bank's procedures, the Borrower addresses a request for proposals to a predetermined short
list. For consultants, the envelopes containing the financial proposals will be opened in public
in a second stage, only after the technical evaluation is completed.
Procurement of Works
79. Works to be procured under the project would include rec6nstructing housing units, schools
and health clinics scattered throughout the four provinces, rebuilding damaged social and public
infrastructure, such as water and drainage networks, telephone, power and electric systems, and
repairing agricultural infrastructure. In view of the emergency situation, and since it is not
anticipated that most contract would exceed US$5 million equivalent, and these works contracts
may be procured following NCB procedures, using standard bid documents agreed in advance
with the Bank. For housing in particular, notices for bids estimated not to exceed US$100,000
equivalent may be posted in the provincial government concerned and in neighboring provinces
as long as it has been established that there is a sufficient number of qualified contractors in the
communities.



18
Procurement of Goods
80. Goods procured under the project would consist primarily of purchasing reconstruction
equipment for removal of debris and site preparation, as well as equipment for housing, the
purchase of construction materials, and mechanical equipment for schools, health clinics and
public infrastructure. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into
bidding packages of more than US$1 million and procured following ICB procedures, using Bank
SBDs. Contracts with estimated value below this threshold may be procured using NCB
procedures and Bank SBDs agreed with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped
into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract may be
awarded on the basis of International Shopping (IS) or National Shopping (NS) in accordance to
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants
81. Consulting services will be contracted to carry out technical studies, coordinate workshops,
and undertake seismic risk prevention and mitigation measures. These services would be
procured using a standard request for proposals document.
82. Firms: All contracts for firms would be procured using Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) except for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less that would be
procured using selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ).  Short lists may be
comprised entirely of national consultants (firms registered or incorporated in the country), if the
assignment does not exceed US$200, 000 equivalent, and a sufficient number of qualified firms
(at least three) are available at competitive costs and competition including foreign firms is not
justified. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they shall not be excluded from
consideration.
83. Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by independent consultants
selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds
84. Works contracts of US$500,000 or more, and goods contracts of US$250,000 or more are
subject to prior review by the Bank. In addition, the first two contracts for works and the first
two contracts for supply of goods, which are below these thresholds, are subject to prior review
by the Bank. For consultant assignments, all contracts including the terms of reference are
subject to the Bank's prior review.
Procurement Plan
85. At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation that provided the basis for the procurement methods. The Bank discussed this
plan with the Borrower and found it acceptable. It may, however, vary because of the emergency
nature of the project. For the first year, the total amount of contracts to be awarded is in the order
of US$65 million, as shown in Table 9. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will
update the procurement plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.



19
86. Frequency of procurement supervision. In addition to prior review to be carried out from
the Bank, it is recommended to have three full supervision missions during the first year of
implementation and to have two full supervision missions to visit each year the field thereafter
and carry out post review of procurement actions.



0g  R t  
z0-5t_ o        o___    _
L9OcS_ e -  en   e ____< _
i  e   - Z      Z Z  ZR o 
;  u   gS   e8  8  N oe _ _ n  - u 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C .   clil t



21
Table 10: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement in US$ million
Disbursement category          ICB    NCB     Other* NBF      Total cost
Civil works                           100      30             130
(83)    (12)           (95)
Goods and
Mechanical equip.              40      20                      60
(38)    (14)     (3)            (55)
Consultants services                   14        3             17
and training                         (13.7)   (2.5)           (16.2)
Unallocated                     7       9.2     1.8            18
(6)    (6)      (1.8)           (13.8)
47     143.2   34.8     Total= 225
(44)  (116.7) (19.3)           (180)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed under the Bank Loan All costs include contingencies
* "Other" represents IS/NS, small works, front-end fee and PMU Costs.



22
Table 11: Thresholds, Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(Base Cost Values)
Cate~or   ~    Contract Value        Procurement        Contracts Subject
Threshold ($million)   Method             to Prior Review
> $5.0 million         ICB                All
1. Works       < $5.0 million         NCB                The first two
contracts estimated
to cost less than
<$100,000              Small Works        $500,000
> $1 million           ICB                 All
< $1 million           NCB                All contracts for
goods estimated to
2. Goods                                                 cost $250,000 or
more and the first
< $100,000             IS/NS              two contracts
estimated to cost
less than $250,000
> $100,000 (firms)     QCBS                All
3. Services    < $100,000 (firms)      CQ                 All
< $50,000(Individuals)  Individual         All
._____________           consultants or



23
Table 12: Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement category        Amount         Expenditure to be
(US$ million)  financed (%)
Civil works                   95           75%
Goods and mech. Equip.        55           100% of for.exp, 100%
loc. exp. (ex-factory),
and 80% of loc. exp. for
items procured locally
Consultant services           16.2         97% of cost of foreign firms
& individuals, 88% of cost
of local firms & individuals.
FrontEnd Fee                   1.80        100%
Unallocated                   12.00
TOTAL                         180
Table 13: Implementation Schedule
Year
1       ~~~2       3
Component A                t_______i___
Construction and mechanical equipment  ~~______
Building materials                               Y g    jS ,
Public infrastructure                       _ A_____'.,_'__*
Social infrastructure
Component B
Irrigation mfrastructure                          -   ,
Agro-food industries             __,____1_____
Animal husbandries           r____________
Component C
TA studies & training             -     ,*
Component D
Disaster  Insurance              _____________  _



24
87. Financial Management Arrangements. The project is approved by the Higher Economic
Council and will be implemented in line with laws and regulations that govern execution and
control of public expenditure and are strictly enforced by the MOEAF and the Supreme Audit
Court of Iran. Financial management operations and functions are carried out at the center in
Teheran for all the four provinces. The PMU, that is located at the MOI in Teheran, complements
the existing financial management capacity of the MOI by being responsible for the financial
management arrangements of the project. The CMU, that will be located at the HF, will act as the
procurement advisor to the PMU. The PMU will conclude and sign/co-sign all contracts. The
financial management function, in Teheran, is divided between the Financial Controller (FC) of
the MOEAF who is assigned to and located at the MOI, and the PMU that is responsible for
project accounting and reporting. The FC is one of the two signatories on the Special Account
(SA), the PMU Director is the other. The FMS also carries out accounting and financial reporting
functions in order to provide the information required by the Bank in a regular, complete and
timely manner. The accounting records and the reports of the FC do not capture the project
accounting information in a complete and comprehensive manner as to allow the preparation of
the reports required by the Bank3.
88. Financial Reporting. The PMU is responsible for the preparation of quarterly FMR and the
annual PFS. The content of the FMR has already been discussed and are included in the
Operational Manual (OM). The FMR will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end
of each calendar quarter.
89. Audit Arrangements. An independent audit firm acceptable to the Bank will be appointed to
audit the annual PFS. The audit should be carried out in line with the International Standards on
Auditing as published by the International Federation of Accountants, and the specific TOR
acceptable to the Bank. The audited PFS should be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible and
in any event not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The TOR for the audit
assignment defines the scope of the audit. The MOI, HF, and all other government organizations
that are participating in implementation of the project should provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and any other information required for the purposes of the
project audit.
90. Financial Management Assessment. At project preparation, the financial management
arrangements of the project did not meet the Bank's minimum requirements. In order that these
arrangements meet the Bank's requirements and to further strengthen the financial management
arrangements: (i) a project FMS and a consultant will be appointed by no later than September
30, 2003. In order to further mitigate the risk in meeting the Bank's minimum requirements for
financial management of the project, complementary accounting and reporting procedures are
incorporated in the OM. The consultant: (a) will install a software for accounting and financial
reporting that is also capable of generating the reports required by the Bank, and will provide the
related training to the staff of the PMU, and (b) will assist with implementation of the OM at the
PMU, and will introduce procedures both for processing payment by the MOI/PMU on contracts
managed by the CMU as well as for supervision of equipment and material management
functions at the CMU, altogether, within two months from his (her) appointment and in no event
later than November 30, 2003. In the interim, the PMU uses computer spreadsheets to facilitate
accounting and preparation of the FMRs required by the Bank. The consultant will also provide
training in the use of these computer spreadsheets. In addition, in order to further strengthen and
build the financial management capacity of the PMU, the financial staff of the project will
3A set of Terms of References (Financial Management Specialist-FMS, Consultant for installing
accounting and financial reporting software, and audit) are integrated in the last part of Attachment 7.



25
participate in a training program. A study tour in a bank-funded project in the region will also be
considered for the financial staff. During project supervision, regular reviews will be carried out
to ensure consistent application of the OM, at both the PMU and the CMU.
91. Disbursement. Withdrawals from the proceeds of the loan will be based on the traditional
disbursement methods of the Bank, using direct payments, payments against special
commitments and replenishments to the Special Account and reimbursement applications, either
fully documented or using Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as per applicable procedures. As
projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed four
months after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard Bank
documentation.
92. Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works, goods,
services and training, the Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a
Commercial Bank of Iran to cover eligible project expenditures to be managed and administered
by the PMU. Authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$5 million covering an
estimated three months of eligible expenditures financed through the SA by the Loan. MOI/PMU
will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documentation for expenditures incurred, including reconciled bank statements, for
expenditures incurred, and will retain and make the documents available for review by Bank
supervision missions and project auditors. All eligible project expenditures that are less than 20%
of the amount of the authorized allocation of the Special Account should be paid through the
Special Account.
93. Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All applications to withdraw proceeds from the
Loan will be fully documented, except for: (a) expenditures of contracts for goods with an
estimated value of US$250,000 or less; (b) expenditures of contracts for works with an estimated
value of US$500,000 or less, (c) expenditures of training and contracts for consulting firms with
an estimated value of US$100,000 or less, and (d) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants,
which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the Financial Controller at
MOI until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, and will be available for review when
requested by Bank supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements will be subject to
the conditions of the grant Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
E. ACTION PLAN
ACTIONS AGREED WITH THE GOVERNMENT
94. The following agreements between the Bank and the Government of Iran were implemented
and documents submitted to the Bank prior to negotiations: (a) confirmation of the Memorandum
of Understanding of the October 2002 Appraisal Mission; (b) approval by the Higher Economic
Council; (c) designation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance to be the counterpart
for Disaster Insurance Component; and, (d) the appointment of the PMU Director. During
negotiations, the Government committed to finalize the contract with the Housing Foundation.
95. One condition for Effectiveness has been agreed as follows: that MOI will enter into an
implementation agreement with HF, in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, including those referred to under paragraph I of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.



26
Dated covenants include: (a) employment of a Financial Management Specialist by MOI, whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to assume the financial
management responsibilities within PMU; and, (b) employment of a consultant, in a similar
manner, to implement the financial management arrangements and system.
96. Monitoring Indicators. Indicators to monitor the financial management and implementation
progress and the achievement of the Development Objectives have been discussed and agreed
during negotiations. The list of indicators is in Attachment 10.



27
ATTACHMENT 1:
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT REPORT'
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Summary
A detailed report on the damages inflicted on the four provinces Qazvin, Hamadan, Zanjan, and
Kermanshah following the two recent earthquakes is included in the project files. The report
contains a brief description of rescue and relief operations after the earthquake, general conditions
of the affected areas, and achievements to date on reconstruction. Total direct damages in the
four provinces as a result of the earthquake were calculated at around US$300million. Lost
revenues were roughly estimated at US$100million. Total reconstruction allocations provided by
the Government so far have been calculated at around US$98million.
' This report was prepared by Pooya Alaedini, Ph D. Babak Priouz collected all the background material
provided by the Governor-General Offices of Zanjan, Qazvin, Hamadan, and Kermanshah and the Ministry
of Interior. Information from the Housing Foundation was also used extensively, including: Housing
Foundation, "Gozaresh-e Moqaddamati-ye Zelzeleh-ye Avaj va Bamameh-ye Bazsazi," Housing
Foundation, July 2002.



28
ATTACHMENT 2:
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD FRAMEWORK
ISLAMIC REPUBLU[C OF IAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Objectives
The environmental and social safeguards framework provides general policies, guidelines, codes
of practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation of World Bank supported
Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project in Iran. Consistent with existing national legislation, the
objective of the framework is to help ensure that activities under the proposed operation will:
o  Protect human health
o  Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood
o  Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their
cumulative effects;
o  Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and
o  Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.
General principles
Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed operation, and the related need for proving
immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing potential
environmental and social risks, this framework is based on the following principles:
The proposed operation will support reconstruction of multiple investments (housing, utilities,
roads, schools, clinics, etc.), the detailed designs of which may not be known at appraisal. To
ensure the effective application of the World Bank's safeguard policies, the framework provides
guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the selection and design of
investments, and the planning of mitigation measures.
The proposed emergency operation will not support environmental Category A investments, nor
investments requiring land acquisition affecting 200 or more people. Consequently, no
environmental impact assessments (EIAs) or Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) will be required.
All proposed investments will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks can
be adequately addressed through the application of standard guidelines and codes of practice.
Responsibilities for safeguard screening and mitigation
Procurement and supervision of the civil works under the Component A and B will be managed
through Contract Management Unit to be set up in the Housing Foundation of the Islamic
Revolution (HF). The PMU and the Housing Foundation through its CMU will be responsible
for the safeguard screening and mitigation monitoring. Design of investments under Component
A and B follow the standards and norms defined in each sector and thus require close
coordination with the sector ministries and utilities represented at the provincial government
including the ministries of electricity and water, education, health, telecommunication, etc. Each
ministry and public utility will be responsible for applying the safeguard screening and mitigation
requirements to its own investments and will work closely with the CMU and the Department of
Environment



29
The Environmental Protection Agency of Iran will have the ultimate responsibilities for clearance
of environmental measures and issuance of environmental construction permits. The mission
confirmed with them their readiness to assist with implementation of the framework. A unit has
been recently set up in the Department of Environment for overseeing the World Bank-financed
projects. This will serve as a one-stop shop for providing clearance to ensure compliance with
both the Government's procedure on environmental requirements and the Bank's safeguard and
environmental policies.
Capacity Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Framework Implementation
As part of the capacity building that will be provided for implementation of the proposed
operation the environmental specialist at the CMU as well as the safeguards focal points and
relevant staff of the concerned ministries at the provincial level will receive training in the
application of the safeguard framework.
To assist in this capacity building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review of the
application of the framework, the Project will contract specialist social and environmental
services. During supervision of these operations, the World Bank will assess the implementation
of the framework, and if required will recommend additional strengthening.
Consultation and Disclosure
This environmental and social safeguards framework was prepared in consultation with the
relevant departments and stakeholders such as the EPA of Iran, participating provincial
governments. The Government will disclose it in Iran and it will also be made available at the
World Bank's Infoshop prior to the approval by the Board of the World Bank.
Environmental Issues and Mitigations Measures
A set of environmental guidelines will be applied during project implementation. These
guidelines will serve as both a checklist to identify potential environmental issues and to ensure
public safety in areas related to: (a) demolition of damaged buildings and debris removal and
disposal; (b) control of erosion: (c) transportation of materials; (d) management of liquid and
solid waste, including hazardous materials from health clinics; and (e) public safety and
management of construction activities to minimize air and noise pollution.
The Environmental Guidelines are designed to provide guidance to the PMU and the CMU on the
procedures used to identify those investments that may induce negative environmental impacts.
Guidance is given on the mitigation of negative environmental impacts that may accrue from sub-
project construction. The guidelines are to be implemented during the application, screening,
assessment, approval and execution of investments.
Under the EERP, most of the eligible investments involve constructing, upgrading and
rehabilitating schools, health clinics as well as essential rural and urban roads, sidewalks,
retaining walls, street lighting and urgent repairs to potable water, storm water drains and
drainage systems. A very limited number of investments will involve constructing, rehabilitating,
upgrading and repairing new potable water sources, potable wells, water reservoirs and small
water supply systems. Sewage treatment plants, solid waste equipment, waste disposal sites are
not eligible for financing under the EERP. All investments will be subjected to environmental



30
screening and assigned to one of two categories depending upon the magnitude and adversity of
predicted environmental impacts:
Category B       Projects that do have a significant effect on the environment. However, the negative
impacts are mainly short term and can be properly mitigated, and therefore require
only limited Environmental Assessment (EA).
Category C       Projects that do not have a significant impact upon the environment and therefore
do not require Environmental Assessment.
No EERP investments are expected to fall into Category A       classification. Most eligible
investments are expected to fall within Category C and will require no EA. Furthermore, since
these sub-projects will be small in scale, they will not be subject to environmental review. A
small number of investments that include new water supply, wastewater sewerage and municipal
roads may fall within Category B and may require a separate EA. However, the positive impacts,
such as the improvements in public health that will result from adequate water supplies are
expected to substantially outweigh any minor negative impacts. In most cases, any necessary
impact mitigation will be inherent in standard engineering design and good construction practice.
Investments considered to impose unacceptable negative environmental impact will not be
approved for financing.
GOOD PRACTICE ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PROCEDURES
The mitigation of potential environmental impacts may be achieved in a variety of ways. This
involves implementing good engineering design and construction techniques and ensuring that
the Contractor undertakes his work in accordance with good construction practices. This is best
dealt with by incorporating mitigation clauses into the Bidding Documents, thereby allowing the
Contractor to make any necessary financial provisions from the outset. Site supervision staff
must check that the works are carried out in accordance with such clauses throughout project
implementation. However, as mentioned earlier, the majority of the sub-projects to be funded
under the EERP will have minor or no environmental impact. These will be identified at an early
stage in the project cycle and adequately mitigated, so that positive impacts substantially
outweigh negative ones, and only those few impacts that cannot be reasonably mitigated, are
accepted. General descriptions of mitigation measures for negative environmental impacts under
the EERP are given below:
Good Practice Mitigation Measures for Negative Impacts
IMPACT                                 GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION
1.  Obstruction of Road  During construction, the total closure of roads should be avoided and single line traffic
Access              maintained wherever possible. T'raffic flow should be managed and working areas cordoned off
for the safety of both the public and construction workers. Such areas should also be adequately
lighted throughout the hours of darkness.
2. Disruption of Public  During construction, and where existing services such as water, sewerage, electricity and
Services            telephones have to be temporarily disconnected, the period of disconnection should be kept to a
minimum. Where disruption for an extended period is unavoidable, alternative arrangements
should be made.
3. Generation of        The generation of construction traffic should be minimized wherever possible Heavy transport
Construction Traffic  and equipment activity should be restricted to normal working hours



31
4.  Water Supply and       The development of new water sources must be linked to the availability of resources without
Water PoUution         derogation of existing supplies For new boreholes, a survey of adjacent wells must be
undertaken and data on ground water levels, pumping rates and water quality collected All new
boreholes will be subjected to test pumping on completion, at a discharge rate greater than that
at which they will be expected to operate
Wastewater sub-projects require particular attention to the disposal of raw sewage flows Where
this is to a regional trunk collector, the capacity of the pipeline to take the increased flows must
be established Where sewage is ultimately discharged to a treatment works, its capacity must
be adequate to take the additional flows
5.  Soil Erosion           Where construction is undertaken during the rainy season, open trenches should be lined or
covered with plastic sheeting and their sides adequately supported  Construction should be
prograrnmed so major excavations and movements of spoil are undertaken during the summer
months Avoid stockpiling soil on hillsides, and cover spoil tips during periods of rain
6.  Disniption of Road     The disruption of natural drainage should be kept to a minimum  The excavation of cut-off
Drainage               trenches and diversion channels may need to be constructed as Temporary Works until land re-
grading, concrete culverts or permanent diversion channels can be completed
7.  Disposal of Spoil      Demolition and excavated materials must be deposited only at locations previously agreed for
the purpose with the Municipality Wherever possible, spoil should be reused for backfill and
reinstatement, or taken to a site approved for such disposal. Small quantities may be graded
over adjacent land where this does not result in the deterioration of soil fertility
8.  Increased Noise        Construction noise should be minimized. Particular limitations may be required where
During Construction    construction is undertaken in the vicinity of mosques and other cultural facilities  Excavators
and other construction machinery should not be left running needlessly, and generators should
be baffled
9.  Air Pollution          The generation of dust and exhaust fumes should be kept to a minimum Access and haul roads
should be kept swept and sprayed with water. Spoil heaps should also be sprayed. Hauling
trucks shall be properly covered
10. Damage to              Where historical remains are unexpectedly discovered in an area not previously known for its
Archaeological         archaeological interest, use "chance find" procedures and coordinate with concerned authorities
Remains
11. Rehabilitaton of       Sub-projects shall give priority to the rehabilitation of toilets in schools and clinics and to the
schools and clinics    proper disposal of hazardous and infectious wastes
Environmental Monitoring
Environmental monitoring for most sub-projects will be limited to compliance monitoring during
construction. This will comprise on-site inspection of construction activities to ensure that the
environmental mitigation measures included in the Scope of Work of the Contractor are being
implemented. Compliance monitoring will be undertaken by the supervising engineer and, when
required, by an environmental specialist who could be called upon on a part-time basis to inspect
certain environmental mitigation measures on-site. The environmental monitoring indicators to
be used for the EERP include:



32
Monitoring Indicators for Project investments
Project Component          Monitoring Indicators    Responsibility for                   Frequency
Monitoring
Rehabilitation of schools   a    Toilet facilities clean and  -  Envirornental specialist  -  Semi-annual
functioning properly        in close coordination with
a    Drinking water clean and    the Ministry of Education
safe from contamination     and the EPA
Rehabilitation of clinics   .    Medical wastes separated  a  Environmental specialist  a  Semi-annual
in the   waste  stream      in close coordination with
including proper location   the Ministry of Health
of   hazardous  waste       and the EPA
containers
a   Availability  of proper
guidelines for collection
and     disposal   of
hazardous wastes in the
clinic
Roads rehabilitation        D   Operating     drainage  o    Environmental specialist    Semi-annual
channels                    in close coordination with
.    No   visible  negative      the Municipalities and the
impacts on surrounding      EPA authorities
.___________________________  habitat
Improvements in water.          Clean functioning toilets  a  Environmental specialist  a  Semi-annual
supply and sanitation       a   No leakage or overflows      in close coordination with
of manholes and drains      the Water Authorities and
the EPA



33
ATTACHMENT 3:
DRAFT
TERMS OF REFERENCE ON
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR DISASTER MANAGEMENT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
BACKGROUND
The Islamic Republic of Iran is a large and complex country at serious risk from natural disasters.
To date earthquakes have been the most significant risk.4 These occur annually, have taken a
disproportionate share of lives, left thousands homeless, and caused heavy and physical,
economic and social damage. The last significant manifestation was the earthquake in Qazvin
and surrounding provinces in June of this year measuring 6.3 on the Richter scale5. This
earthquake killed some 230 persons, destroyed 1600 houses, left 25,000 persons homeless, and
resulted in damage, including damage to social and physical infrastructure, livestock etc.,
estimated by GOI at more than US$140m (replacement costs).
But Iran has seen even greater camage. The earthquake which hit Rasht/Gilan Provinces in June
of 1990 measured 7.7 on the Richter scale, killed some 50,000 persons, destroyed some 120, 000
houses, left 60,000 homeless and resulted in damage estimated by the World Bank at US$5.25b,
or 2.5% of GDP. An official report by the Iranian Housing Foundation, a local NGO affiliated to
the Ministry of Housing, indicated that during the 1993-2001 period some 600,000 dwellings, or
about 5 percent of the total country housing stock, was severely damaged or destroyed by natural
disasters. The Foundation also estimated that overall property damage was more than US$10
billion, and that in the 1999-2001 period government subsidies to homeowners affected by natural
disasters exceeded US$1 billion, or about 1.3 percent of GDP.
By way of comparison with other countries, the Rasht/Gilan earthquake in 1990 was even more
severe than the earthquakes which wreaked havoc in Turkey (Marmara) in 1999 and Japan
(Kobe) 1995 and created proportionally more damage to life and property. Also, in Rasht/Gilan
Iran experienced even greater loss of life and property than that experienced during the Mexico
City Earthquake of 1985, even though the latter was far more intense.6  Obviously then,
earthquakes present GOI with a very serious economic and. social challenge. They occur
regularly, and with devastating effect every five to ten years. And if a highly populated area such
as Tehran city was to experience a severe tremor such as those discussed above, the loss of life
other damages could be catastrophic.'
4 Flooding is reportedly on the increase and becoming a serious risk.
5 There have been several quakes since
6 Data for Iran are from recent World Bank mission reports, particularly the AIDE MEMOIRE, Iran
Housing Reform Loan: Natural Disasters Insurance Component, July 5, 2002, by Eugene Gurenko et al.
Data for Turkey, Japan and Mexico are from Turkey, Marmara Earthquake Assessment, September 14,
1999, Turkey Country Office, World Bank, ppl2 & 13.
7Tehran has been spared from serious earthquake damage to date. It is not invulnerable, however. A
recent estimate by the Financial Times indicated that an earthquake of 8 in Tehran would leave over I



34
The core of the problem appears to be: a) a relatively high proportion of structurally unsound
building sited on geologically unstable lands; and b) inadequate national disaster planning and
management systems. The former often intersects with poverty, insufficient public information
concerning proper construction and land use techniques, and insufficient attention to enforcement
of building regulations. The latter is more complex and requires more detailed analysis. Clearly,
though, the institutional arrangements for disaster prevention and mitigation need strengthening.
The magnitude of the challenge requires that the GOI improves the effectiveness of institutions
and systems to prevent and/or minimize earthquake disasters. This will build on the past
preparedness and planning work carried-out by the GOI during the last ten years. The GOI is
fully aware of the challenge and, with the assistance of the World Bank, wishes to develop "best
practices" in this field. Accordingly GOI intends to strengthen its disaster preparedness and
management systems (DPMS). It intends to proceed by:
o Obtaining a better grasp of the nature, location, frequency and scope of the earthquake
problem in Iran;
o Obtaining a better understanding of the intersection of poverty; poor code
understanding, application and enforcement, earthquake risk, and damages to life, limb
and property;
o Assessing the ability of current Iranian systems and institutions to predict likely
occurrence and estimate damage potential;
o Assessing the capacity and performance of existing DPMS and structures to revent
serious damage, and to mitigate and respond quickly and appropriately when disasters
do occur. (This includes an assessment of responses to the 1999 Rasht/Gilan and
subsequent earthquakes, and more recent 2002 Qazvin earthquake);
o Comparing recent Iranian, Turkish, and Japanese experience and performance with
best practice and each other; and
o Reviewing best practice in the DPM field.
On the basis of the above, GOI intends to establish effective DPMS and institutions in Iran,
having regard to Iranian institutions and the priorities of GOI. Such a design will adapt best
practices worldwide to the particular situation of Iran.
The overall task will be undertaken by GOI experts over the next [2-3] years, with the
assistance of local and international consultants. These consultants will be employed on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The tasks to be executed under these TOR are the first of three stage of a broader DPMS
reform process which is structure as follows:
Stage 1: System Stocktaking and Options Review;
Stage 2: Detailed System Development and Testing;
Stage 3. Full (Nationwide) System Implementation and Documentation.
million dead and over 20 percent of housing stock destroyed (cited in AIDE MEMOIRE, Iran Housing
Reform Loan: Natural Disasters Insurance Component, July 5, 2002, by Eugene Gurenko et al.).



35
OBJECTIVES
The specific objective of these TOR is to provide guidance to consultants who will be employed
by GOI (the client) to help develop proposals for DPMS reform. In particular, the consultants
shall:
a) Assess and report on Iran 's current state and level of disaster preparedness, with special
focus on earthquake disaster preparedness and management (stocktaking);
b) Develop guidelines for effective reforms aimed at achieving "best practice" in Iran and
thereby minimizing the negative impacts offuture earthquakes.
PROCESS
In undertaking their tasks, the consultants shall consult extensively and liaise closely with GOI
and local experts. To facilitate this, the MOI will assemble a counterpart team (CT) of these
experts for this purpose. This team will be led by a Task Manager appointed by GOI. The CT
is expected to participate actively and to assist the consultants wherever possible in the
execution of task, and will be held accountable for doing so. They are not expected to be
passive by-standers, but a vital part in developing and carrying forward the reform process.
Nevertheless, the consultants will be held solely responsible for the quality and timely
delivery of the work.
Workshops of experts and key stakeholders should be convened periodically, where useful and
deemed necessary by the TM and the consultants. The assessments to be undertaken, the
workshops to be held, and the reports to be produced by the consultants shall provide
technical, institutional, legal, financial and operational guidance to GOI. They should also
help to build a broad consensus on subsequent phases of the efforts to be later undertaken by
GOI (see discussion above), including any necessary reforms and reform processes.
SCOPE OF WORK
The following is a summary of the main tasks and subtasks to be undertaken by the consultants:
Part A. Stocktaking
Task 1: Prepare Inception Report
a) Meet with counterpart team;
b) Review assignment;
c) Prepare Inception Report outlining understanding of tasks, approaches, and work
program
Task 2: Create an effective working group and work plan
a) Identify key stakeholders;



36
b) Convene and host a small internal "Kick-off' Workshop with counterpart team and
selected stakeholders to:
i. Discuss Inception Report;
ii. Identify key issues
iii. Identify and agree on data requirements and sources;
iv. Agree roles, responsibilities and working and reporting arrangements;
v. Agree revised work program as necessary.
Task 3: Analyze of existing legal and institutional arrangements for DPM
a) Identify relevant legislation;
b) Identify current roles and responsibilities at local, district, province and national levels;
c) Identify current policies, plans, procedures and operating systems at local, district,
provincial and national levels;
d) Identify current earthquake mapping and monitoring systems and procedures;
e) Identify current structural design codes and assess relevance, enforcement and
effectiveness;
f) Evaluate relevance and effectiveness of existing DPM policies, plans, programs, systems
and procedures at local, district, provincial and national levels;
Task 4: Analyze the effectiveness (or otherwise) of existing DPMS with respect to the 1990
Rasht/Gilan and June 2002 Qazvin earthquakes
a) Identify the location, timing, severity and scope of the earthquakes;
b) Determine the role, extent and effectiveness (or otherwise) of existing earthquake
research and monitoring institutions in anticipating and helping to prepare GOI
institutions and local communities for the disaster;
c) Review the timeliness and accuracy of estimates of injuries, fatalities and damage to
houses and economic and social infrastructure;
d) Review the role, timeliness and effectiveness (or otherwise) of existing local, district,
provincial and national level authorities (including GOI, Red Crescent, NGO's and other
relevant agencies and institutions) in responding to the disaster during the following
phases:
i. Warning;
ii. Search and rescue;
iii. Rehabilitation; and
iv. Reconstruction.
e) Review the role, timeliness and effectiveness (or otherwise) of local community
individuals and groups (formal and informal) and systems in responding to the disaster
during the following phases:



37
i. Preparedness (if any);
ii. Warning (if any);
iii. Search and rescue;
iv. Rehabilitation; and
v. Reconstruction.
Task 5 Convene and Host Stocktaking Workshop
a) Document findings in a Draft Stocktaking Report and circulate to GOI, the Bank and key
stakeholders
b) Plan and convene workshop of key stakeholders to review findings (on above);
c) Discuss findings in working groups and develop a consensus among stakeholders on the
need (or otherwise) for reform and the issues to be addressed;
Part B. Developing Guidelines for Reform
Task 5: Develop guidelines for system reform and improvement involving "best practice" and
suitable for the Iranian context
a) Review workshop findings and recommendations and revise Stocktaking Report
accordingly;
b) Review Iran's earthquake risk profile relative to other countries, including
i. Type;
ii. Periodicity;
iii. Likely scope;
iv. Likely severity;
v. Co-incidence with poverty; and
vi. Likely impact (physical, economic and social);
c) Review Iran's DPM experience relative to that of other earthquake prone countries,
including advanced and developing ones;
d) Review DPM best practice worldwide;
e) Review any recent proposals for DPMS reform in Iran, including, particularly,
proposals from international agencies and NGO's (UNDP, Red Crescent, etc.);
f) On the basis of the above outline the options available for establishing an effective,
best practice DPM for Iran including, inter alia:
i.       Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment;
ii.       Development of Seismic Safety Goals and Policies;
iii.      Design of Potential Mitigation and Preparedness Strategies;
iv.       Program Development;



38
v.        Design of Plan Format and Evaluation.
g) Outline a process and a timetable for preparing and implementing the DPMS reforms
outlined above;
Task 7: Convene and host a National DPMS Reform Workshop
a) Document findings re Task 5 in a Draft Final DPMS Reform Report and circulate to
GOI, the Bank and key stakeholders (including revised (Final) Stocktaking Report as
part of a comprehensive document);
b) Plan and convene workshop of key stakeholders to review Report findings and
recommendations;
c) Discuss findings and recommendations in working groups, and develop a consensus
among stakeholders on the scope, content, timing and process of reform;
Task 8: Prepare Final DPMS Reform Report
a) Revise Draft DPMS Reform Report to reflect and include:
i. Finding and agreements reached at workshop, including the scope, content,
timing and process of reform;
ii. Responsibility for guiding the reform process;
iii. Work Plan for reform
iv. Budget for reform
b) Draft TOR for consultants to be employed to assist GOI to prepare the detailed
documentation of the revised DPMS and to help implement the reforms.
Task 9: Deliver Completed Final DPMS Reform Report to GOI and Bank.
CONSULTANTS TEAM AND INDICATrVE LEVEL OF EFFORT
The consultant's team should normally comprise at least two persons with expertise in DPMS.
The consultant's minimum qualifications should include advanced university degrees (master's
level minimum) in one or more of the following: earthquake engineering, civil engineering, urban
and regional planning, public administration, social planning, institutional analysis, or other
relevant DPMS discipline. The team leader should have a minimum 10 years of professional
experience in DPMS development, including a minimum of 5 years of experience on
international, multi-disciplinary risk management projects. Team members should be computer
literate, and possess good organizational, communications, and English speaking and
writing/reporting skills. Work experience in Iran (or a comparable developing context) and a
working knowledge of Farsi would be a distinct advantage.
The indicative level of effort is [20] person weeks. The consultant is expected to complete his
task in 12-15 working weeks.



39
REPORTING AND DELIVERABLES
The consultant shall report to and liaise closely with the TM appointed by MOI. The reporting
schedule is as follows:
Activity/Report                                                Target
Completion Time
(working days)*
I. Review of TOR and clarify assignment with the GO] Task Manager            2-3
and counterpart team. (Task 1)
2. Prepare an Inception Report outlining how consultant intends to             5
proceed and on what schedule (Task 1)
3. Convene Internal Planning "Kick-off' Workshop (Task 2)                    5-7
4. Prepare and deliver Draft Stocktaking Report (Tasks 3&4)                30-35
5. Convene and host Stocktaking Workshop (Task 5)                          35-40
6. Prepare Draft DPMS Reform Report (Task 6)                               50-55
7. Convene and host DPMS Reform DPMS Reform Workshop (Task 7)              60-65
8. Prepare and deliver Final Report to MOI and Bank (Tasks 8&9)            70-75
* Beginning the dale of signing of contract
At least 4 copies of each report should be presented in both Farsi and English (4 copies in Farsi
and 4 in English). Reports should be typed and bound in accordance with normnal professional
practice. The consultants should also submit a (one) electronic copy of each report in each
language (one in Farsi and one in English) in a format that can be easily read by Microsoft Word.
DOCUMENTS TO BE PROVIDED BY CLIENT
1. Copies of all relevant GOI Legislation.
2. A listing of all current and relevant GOI committees, working groups, commissions, etc.
3. Copies of relevant disaster related committee's proceedings and reports.
4. Reports on current system organization and performance and proposals for reform, including
any current proposals from international agencies and NGO's (UNDP, Red Crescent, etc.).
5. Reports on finding on Gilan/Zanjan and Qazvin earthquakes, including the extent and type of
damage, GOI and community response, and the response of other agencies and NGOs (Red
Crescent, etc).
6. Reports and maps relating to seismicity and to poverty, and their co-incidence in Iran.
7. Reports related to building regulations in Iran, including the design and enforcement of
earthquake codes.
8. Reports on community response and participation in disaster situations
FACILITIES TO BE MADE AVAILABLE BY CLIENT
MOI (the client) will provide or assist the consultant to securing suitable office space and
equipment. MOI will also assist with any clearances, permits and logistics necessary for the
effective performance of the consultants' tasks.



40
ATTACHMENT 4:
HOUSE RECONSTRUCTION TYPES UNDER THE EERP
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
TYPE-Il: 43m2 Braced steel frame with composite concrete slab roofing
1- Lateral and vertical    Steel frame and eccentric braces
resisting systems:
2- Design code:            Iranian seismic Building Design code,
Standard n.o.2800, Chapter3
3- Built-up area:          43m2
4 - Construction method:   Prefabricated beams, columns and
braces with bolted connections.
5- Amount of concrete      6.8m3
required:
6 - Amount of steel        Foundation 300kg, frame and roof
required:                  1,800kg
7 - Construction period:   -  Construction of members in factory:
3days
Erecting beams and columns on the
foundation: 4hours
- Foundation and brickwork
- Total = 20 days
TYPE-I[: 43m2 Concrete tie frame with jacked arch roofing
1- Lateral and vertical    Brick bearing walls and concrete ties
resisting system:
2- Design code:            Iranian seismic Building Design code,
Standard no. 2800, CHAPTER 3
3- Built-up area:          43 m2
4 - Construction method:   In-situ
5- Amount of concrete      8m3
required:
6- Amount of steel required: 1350 kg
7 - Construction period:   Three (3) months



41
TYPE-41:              40m2 Steel tie frame with jacked arch roofing
1- Lateral and vertical              Brick bearing walls and steel ties
resisting system:
2- Design code:                      Iranian seismic Building Design code,
Standard no. 2800, Chapter3
3- Built-up area:                     40m2
4 - Construction method:              Prefabricated vertical and horizontal
ties with bolted connections
5- Amount of concrete                 2.6m3
required:
6- Amount of steel required:          Foundation 220kg, ties 1080kg
7 - Construction period:              -   Construction of members in factory:
2days
-    Erecting ties on the house
foundation: 3hours
-    Foundation and brickwork: 7days
-    Total: 2 weeks
Sou,ce Housing Foundation, OctobLr 2002
Table 2: Unit Cost of Building Material for the EERP
Building Material   Unit   Unit          TYPE-I:               TYPE-II:            TYPE-I111:
for House                  Cost
Reconstrmction             (IR)
Total   Total Price   Total   Total Price   Total   Total Price
Amount                Amount                Amount
Steel bar          Kg       3,200     300 00    960,000     700 00  2,240,000     230 00    736,000
Steel frame        Kg       3,000          -          -     650 00   1,950,000  1,100.00  3,300,000
Braced steel frame  Kg      3,430    1,620 00  5,556,600         -          -         -
Wooden (loor &     sq m    70,000       6 00    420,000       6.00    420,000       2 00    140,000
windows
Cement             Ton    250,000       5 65   1,412,500      4 75   1,187,500      4 19  1,047,500
Gravel             Ton     35,000       10 60   371,000       5 50    192,500       4 20    147,000
Sand               Ton     35,000      31 70   1,109,500     37 50  1,312,500      32 00  1,120,000
Bncks              No        280    25,900 00  7,252,000  28,570 00  7,999,600  27,100 00  7,588,000
Gypsum (chalk)     Ton    130,000       2 12    275,600       4 94    642,200       3 73    484,250
Roof insulation    sq.m    13,000      45 00    585,000      45 00    585,000      42 00    546,000
Steel doors &      Kg       4,200     t50 00    630,000     137 00    575,400     132 00    554,400
windows
Mosaic             No      15,000      41 30    619,500      40 50    607,500      38 00    570,000
TOTAL (in IR)                                 19,191,700            17,712,200            16,233,150
TOTAL (in USS)                                     2,411                 2,225                2,039
Source: The Housing Foundation, October 2002



42
ATTACHMENT 5:
RAPID INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT OF THE HOUSING FoUNDATION'
ISLArMC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Summary
The Housing Foundation (HF) was established in April 1979 as a non-governmental organization
with the mandate to provide housing for the poor. Its original source of funding came from a
special revolutionary account (Account 100) created through public donations. The HF became a
specialized para-statal agency witlh a clear mandate and bylaws. HF's bylaws were approved by
the national parliament on December 7, 1987 giving it the following responsibilities:
o  Studying the housing needs of the poor in rural and urban areas and preparing the means
to provide low-income families with inexpensive housing through their participation
o  Preparing plans for settlement complexes and inexpensive housing units and realizing
them directly or with the help of the people in coordination with relevant government
organs in rural and urban areas
o  Preparing land for the implementation of the plans and projects
o  Assisting in the provision of construction materials through procurement, production and
distribution
o  Supervising zero-interest loans for rural housing and low interest loans for urban housing
to be awarded through financial resources provided by the national banking system
o  Preparing guiding plans and street improvement plans for villages in coordination with
relevant government organs and implementing them -- utilizing government allocated
resources -- with people's participation
o  Preparing and implementing housing renovation and reconstruction projects in disaster-
stricken villages with the help of the people in coordination with relevant government
organs
The HF is the sole national organization responsible for rural housing and. streets and surface
water drainage. Additionally, HF is involved in a number of related activities from construction
of rural access roads to the provision of utilities to producing construction materials. It has
offices in all provinces and about 120 centers across the country to implement its projects.
One of HF's important mandates is to address the needs of disaster-stricken areas. HF began
reconstruction activities in war damaged areas in 1982 at the same time that the Iran-Iraq War
was still escalating. Further, HF has been active in all natural disaster-stricken areas since its
inception. These include areas hit by floods, earthquakes, or any other form of natural disasters.
HF has been active in the reconstruction of damaged areas following the two recent earthquakes
in Kermanshah and Qazvin/Zanjan/Hamadan. Its record to date in these two areas is provided in
another report. A detailed report on the institutional review of the Housing Foundation is included
in the project files.
' This detailed report was prepared by Pooya Alaedini Ph.D (Consultant) in October 2002



sA~~0     0a  0000 NO  o voovoxm-  ( -N "m  M* 
_    0(Nr', EN  (N(N00-0E  000 o  g o  o
a- .                       (N E( nn N> SN
o    O  t W  (N  (n  ,N   '( 'O   (  '0(   (N  (N
] ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0  00  (N E E  --- _^t N 
A~~~~ 00      00  -N  -000  ,,  -  0 0 0 0   (NX b 
i ~ ~~~ B   00      0 .. (N  f
o         (N  (N  00.  0'  (N   N   N0
.\   0 4 ' A ' 4 0  (N _  ' AN  (N A00 A_A
~~~~~~~~~~~~rl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r
0' 0  N  00  00 * ' 0
(N (N~~~~~~~ 
0'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
00   00 00 (  (  (  - 0 0 0   0 
00  00,   CD'0(  -   (  NO
a.         - 0 '00000~~~~~~~~~C (NO 000 (NO '0 
(I).0            0  ( (N 0 - 050( -00
O z    S
0   0  00   0  0 0' 0
0
Z 0
Ooa~~~~~~~O 
z  ~   ~     C
o~~~~~~~L                  > oS



0o   t,           f ,  ri  -  -  ri  .,i  0  r-l>
N       '0 !o   t) o   00    00
r v o   o  o  0 0 0 0 0
0           o     ;      (esi -  -  INnz Ms
C4i
r. -  t                             ts
z                      CL
IN Eg      2        10g A 
00  0'    u u 00  a  c:



45
ATTACHMENT 7:
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
A.     Financial Management
1.     Summary of Financial Management Assessment. Based on a review of the financial
management arrangements at the PMU, the financial management system in place does not
currently meet the minimum requirements of the Bank for accounting and financial reporting. In
order to meet those requirements there is a need for (i) appointment of an FMS to manage the
financial operations and reporting at the PMU, (ii) Implementation of the comprehensive OM for
the financial management operations that has already been prepared', and (iii) appointment of a
consultant to install a software for accounting and financial reporting, and to implement the OM.
Appointment of the FMS and the consultant will take place no later than September 30, 2003.
Appointment of an FMS allows production of the quarterly FMR and the annual PFS in a regular,
complete and timely manner. Implementation of the procedures contained in the OM by the
consultant will provide an adequate level of segregation of duties and a clear division of
responsibilities. TORs for the appointment of both the FMS and the consultant are already
submitted to the MOI.
2.     The financial management issues that merit particular attention in the project
implementation are the following: (a) reinforcement of the procedures for the financial
management functions at the PMU, and supervision of equipment and material management
functions and operations at the CMU, (b) institution of an effective financial management
information system which is also capable of generating FMRs to be submitted to the Bank; and
(c) introduction of suitable procedures for processing payment by the MOI/PMIU on contracts
managed by the CMU. It is expected that the implementing agency will need a period of at least
five months to implement items (a) to (c) listed above, all of which form part of the scope of work
of the consultant. In the interim, the PMU uses computer spreadsheets to facilitate accounting and
preparation of the reports required by the Bank. The consultant will also provide training in the
use of those computer spreadsheets.
3.     Risk analysis. The tables below present a risk analysis of the financial management
arrangements for the operations at the center, in Teheran. An OM has been prepared for use by
project staff for the financial management aspects of the project, amongst others. The financial
management staff of the project will participate in a training program. In addition, a study tour in
a Bank-funded project in the region will also be considered.
1 Termes of References for the Financial Management Specialist (FMS) and the consultant for installing the
financial reporting and accounting software are in the last part of this Attachment 7



46
i.      lRisk Analysis for the Operations at the Center, in Teheran
Risk                               Risk                   Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating*
Executing Agencies
MOIIPMU First time implementation of a Bank-             S          Cross support from the office of the FC of the MOEAF at
funded project, with less experienced staff, may result
in inadequate and inconsistent application of the                  th    Ooe     f
maintained
financial arrangements
S
The contract management arrangement with the HF
may requiret renagularmsupentrrvs to wisethat the IFRegular supervision ofthe CMU will be made In addition,
marrangement ingplaceare adpequateon for pnsuroess the              the extemal auditors will be required to review the contract
contracts,ens the volume ofathe adeqtcfonpractssy rse               management activities and processes, as well as prepare a
contracts, as the volume of the contracts may rise                  rpr nmtra qimn            n  oto
,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~report on material equipment and control
rapidly, and given also that the CMU will not have a
financial management responsibility
Flow of Funds
Coordination between the FMS with respect to request     M           During the project supervisions, regular reviews will be
for funds from the Bank and the FC for the request for               carried t to ensupe        regem   ews for
counterpart funds, due to the newness of the project and              rriedmout t   re thatcthe angement sfor
the FMS may require close and regular supervision
Staffing
The pace of the project's FMS familiarization with       S           Arrangements for training of the staff in a Bank-funded
Bank policies and use of the computer models/programs                project in the region will be made as soon as possible.
for financial recording & reporting may be slow
Regular supervision to ensure transfer of experience from
the staff of the FC's office to the PMU staff, in conjunction
with the implementation of the procedures contained in the
OM
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The project Is implemented as part of the GJovemment
S          Regular supervision during implementation to ensure
Development budget and is thus subject to regulations
regulations on public expenditure Is strictly enforced
goveming public expenditure in Iran However, a
CFAA, which would assess risks associated with                       enuret
management of the budget processes, has not yet been
carried out
Flow of Financial Information
Coordination between the FC's office that is responsible
for payments and recording for budget purposes, and the   M           Regular supervision will be carried out to ensure (i) transfer
FMS that will be responsible for accounting and reporting             of experience from the staff of the office of the FC to the
for project purposes due to the first time implementation
of a Bank project may require close and regular                       new staff at the PMU, and (h) implementation of and
supervision                                                           compliance with the procedures contained in the OM
Internal Audit
Intemal audit is limited to compliance with verification
M           Regular review of the disbursement requests by the MO!
procedures for work carried out by the office of the FC
and follows budget execution procedures This
administrative compliance review is limited in scope
The_double_function_of the_FC_as_the_Financial  I



47
Risk                                Risk                    Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating*
Controller and as the Government Treasurer for the
Development Budget at the MOI needs to be assessed
External Audit
A review has not yet been carmed out by the Bank to         M           There will be (i) a review of the auditors capability before
determine the capability of the auditors to perform an                  award of the audit contract, (n) an early appoitment of the
audit in line with the bank requirements In addition, no                auditors, (ihi) an agreement with the borrower on an agreed
additional semi-annual SOE review is also a due to the                  aud       (ii R  r an  a     udith tbr r    an a greed
low volume of activity through the SOE throughout the                   and specific TOR for the annual audit, (iv) an additioial
lifw volume profjctivity through the SOE throughoutthesemi-annual SOE review, and (v) increased supervision
life of the project
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial repots may not provide the kformation             S           Forms for financial reporting is prepared and is included in
the OM  Regular supervision will be carried out to ensure
that the accounting system is properly maintained for the
complete and timely reporing of information Upkeep of the
databases to ensure such compliance will be regularly
, __________________________________________ __________________   reviewed during supervision
Information systems
There is no accounting software in use at the PMU,         S            OM provides the basis for selection of suitable software for
which may prevent comprehensive financial information                   the purposes of financial management and accounting for
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h pupoe oftue                                   fiania managemen and accountin fori
to be captured and reported on a timely basis                          the PMU   The software will be adapted and improved by
local expert consultants to respond to the specific needs of
the project in a flexible manner
ii.       Risk Analysis for the Operations in Provinces
(These risks are in addition to those that apply to the operations in Teheran. The risks of
the operations at the center, in Teheran, apply by default as well to the operations in
provinces.)
Risk                           Risk Rating*                  Risk Mitigation Measures
Executing Agency
Governorates in Provinces. A new project in a new          M/H          Cross-support from the MOI/PMU will be provided Planning
area with less experienced staff may result in inadequate               and implementation of a regular cross-support program will
and inconsistent application of the financial                           be closely monitored during supervision
arrangements
Staffing
The pace of the coordinators familiarization with Bank      S           Cross-suppor will be provided from the center
policies and use of the computer models/programs for                    Accountants and project staff will be tramed on a
financial recording & reporting could be slow
formalized and regular basis Implementation of a regular
cross-support program will be closely monitored during
supervision



48
Overall Risk Rating                                M
For both operations in Teheran and in the provinces
(i) The absence of a country analytical work such as the CFAA; (ii) the decentralized financial execution of the project and coordination of the
contracting activities involving a large volume of contracts through a separate entity, i.e., the HF/CMU, (iii) lack of a review of the capability of
the audit firms, (iv) newness of the staff and the lack of familiarity with the Bank procedures, and (v) the very nature of the project, (an
emergency project) are the factors for the final rating of "High" risk for the financial management of the project. However, (i) the experience of
the FCs which has demonstrated the strict enforcement of budget regulations, (ii) the cross support and the training that will be provided, (iii)
the accounting and reporting set up at the center and in the govenorates that are in line with the rules and regulations on public finance, and (iv)
the existence of a comprehensive OM and reinforcement measures that will be introduced by the consultant constitute the main risk mitigation
measures
Risk Ranking H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), and N (Negligible or Low Risk)
4.       Financial Management Arrangements The project is approved                 by the Economic
Council. The project is implemented in line with the laws and regulations that govern all aspects
of public expenditure and are strictly enforced. All the financial management operations and
functions are carried out at the center in Teheran for all the four provinces. In Teheran, the PMU
has the overall responsibility for all the financial management matters relating to the project.
5.       Staffing, Accounting, and Flow of Information. The financial management function is
divided between the PMU, which is responsible for accounting and reporting of the project
activities, and the FC of the MOEAF who is assigned to and located at the MOI. The FC is
responsible for budget execution and financial management of the MOI and its related
organizations. The PMU and the office of the FC coordinate between themselves all the flows of
information for financial management purposes. The FC is a signatory on all the bank accounts
that the FC him (her) self is responsible for opening in the name of the MOI, including the
foreign currency Special Account, and the project local currency account. The FC is also
responsible for commitment for expenditure, the approval of the payment and the actual payment,
and the financial reporting in line with the requirements that govern public expenditure in Iran.
The FC performs all its functions in line with the regulations governing the management of public
ex'penditure that are strictly enforced by the MOEAF and supervised by the Supreme Audit Court
of Iran.
6.      The FMS in the PMU is responsible for the overall financial management of the project,
annual budgeting and the project general accounting, and the preparation of FMRs for submission
to the Bank. These responsibilities require the FMS to perform functions that include budget
preparation, initiation of expenditure, effecting the expenditure, receipt of goods and services,
preparation of forms relating to accounting transactions, follow-up on the request for payments,
record keeping, verification of supporting documents, preparing bank reconciliation statements,
preparing periodic reports and financial statements, and coordination in financial reporting as
well as monitoring of the Special Accounts (SA) with the FC. The PMU Director also serves as
one of the two signatories on the SA, the FC is the other. The FMS will also work directly with
the CMU for payments to the contractors. The CMU, that will be located at the HF, will be
responsible for management of all contracts. CMU will act as an advisor to the PMU for contracts
negotiations and management of their execution. PMU will conclude and sign all contracts. CMU
will manage contract executions, reporting, and approving the request for payments submitted by
the contractors. CMU will submit to the PMU the reports on contracts executions as well as the
requests for payments to the contractors. PMU makes payments directly to the contractors. The
number of payments to most of the contractors is not expected to be substantial as the major
contracts represent purchase of large civil works projects and construction equipment, and as such



49
mostly require few large payments. A regular (at least on a monthly basis) reconciliation between
the accounting records of the FC relating to the execution of the Development Budget at the MOI,
and the project records kept by the FMS will be carried out by the FMS. A similar monthly
reconciliation between the records of the CMU and those of the PMU on the status of all
contracts will be prepared by the FMS. The assignment of responsibilities is shown in Tables
l,and 2 below. The responsibilities and functions including the preparation of reconciliation
statements just described are covered further in detail in the OM.
Table 1                      BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
Process                                            Assignment of Responsibility
MPO             FC         MOI/PMU
A. Project Approval and Insertion in the Developnent Budget
I Project Approval by the High Economtc Council                                   X                     .      X
2 Allocation of Budget Codes to the Project                                       X__
3 Budget Preparation and Submission to the Parliament (Insertion of the Project in                             X
the Development Budget)
B. Expenditure Execution
I Budget Allocation (Availability of the Counterpart funds)                   X and the
______________________________________                      MOEAF
2 Determining (initiating) Expenditure                                                          X              X
3 Credit Commitment                                                                                            x
4. Incurring Expenditure,                                                                                      X
(Effecting Commitment) and Delivery of Goods and Services
5 Liquidation of Commitment                                                                     X
6 Signing Checks and/or Approving Payment Transfers                                             X              X
7 Payment to the Supplier                                                                                     PMU
8 Request for Funds
a    Withdrawal Application (Foreign Currency)                                         X              X
b    Counterpart Funds (Local Currency)                                                X
9 Recording of Expenditure and Reporting
a    For National Budget Purposes                                                            X
b    To meet the Bank's requirements                                                                        X
c    Regular reconciliation between a and b above                                                           X
C Control During Execution                                                                             _
I Pre-audit Verification and Due Diligence Functions for
a    Credit Commitment,                                                                               X
.Liquidation of Commitment                                                         X
Material and Equipment Accounting and Control                                                X              A
D. Records Management
I keeping of Financial Records and Documents for
a   Expenditures under the Loan                                                     X (Copy)     X (Original)
b   Expenditures of Counterpart funds, and Contributions                           X(Original)    X (Copy)
Process                                            Assiginment of Responsibility
MPO                  SAC           Independent
Auditors
Control Subsequent to Execution
I A compliance audit of the budget execution for                An overall review of
a   Expenditures of Counterpart funds and contributions  project implementation  Regular and the
(Not an audit)       annual audits
2 A financial audit of the project execution for.
b. Expenditures under the Loan                                                                 Acceptable to
the Bank, an
annual audit of
the PFS



50
7.     Accounting system. The accounting system currently in place at the office of the FC is
not sufficient to enable the preparation of the FMRs in a complete and timely manner as required
by the Bank. In order that the accounting system meets the Bank's minimum requirements for
accounting and financial reporting, the PMU will keep all the financial records of the project and
will perform the accounting of the project in a computerized environment. A consultant will be
appointed by effectiveness to install suitable accounting software that will respond to the
requirements of the Bank for accounting and financial reporting.
8.    Internal Control Procedures. The internal control procedures currently in place at the
MOI conform to the requirements. These procedures meet the Bank requirements on internal
control procedures and the control environment. Internal controls procedures that are in place at
the MOI/PIU provide reasonable assurance that (i) All expenditures and the related financial
transactions are properly approved and authorized (ii) There are safeguards in place for the
access to and use of the government assets, (iii) Rules regarding management of the financial
records are strictly enforced, (iv) there is adequate control over valuable documents, such as
checks and other documents that represent proof of property ownership, and (v) two signatures
required on all bank account, and one signatory will not be directly involved in the accounting
and financial management operations. The OM defines the procedures that should be followed by
the PMU to maintain the control environment in line with the requirements of the Bank.
9.     Flow of Funds. MOI establishes two accounts: (a) Special Account in foreign currency
where funds from the Bank will be deposited; and (b) Counterpart fund account in local currency,
,where counterpart funds will be deposited and only be used for payment of local purchases. in
line with the terms and conditions that are required by the Bank. The PMU, in conjunction with
the office of the FC at the MOI, is directly responsible for managing the SA and the project local
currency account, preparation of the withdrawal applications, and reconciliation of the bank
accounts, cooperation with the Bank's supervision missions and coordination with the external
auditors.
10.   Financial Reporting. The FMS is responsible for the preparation of quarterly FMR in
the form acceptable to the Bank. The format for the FMRs is included in the OM. The fiscal year
in Iran follows the Hejri Solar calendar. It starts on March 21 of each Gregorian calendar year,
and ends on March 20 of the following year. The end of the other quarters falls on different days
of the related month in the Gregorian calendar as follows: June 21, September 22, and December
21. The FMR will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end of the quarter. The PMU
is also responsible for preparation of the annual PFS. The PFS contains :(a) the Balance Sheet; (b)
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, (c) Statement of Withdrawals, indicating withdrawals
made on the basis of the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), (d) SA Reconciliation Statement; and
(e) with respect to the activities that are carried out by the CMU: (i) Statement of the Physical
Stock of Equipment and Material, and (ii) Statement of Contract Executions and Contract
Commitments. The reconciliation statements between the records of the FMS and those of the FC
and the CMU for each of the months falling on the end of each quarter, as discussed above, will
also be submitted to the Bank with the FMR reports. Samples of these forms are included in the
OM.
I1. Impact on Procurement Arrangements. The recommendations for the related risk
mitigation are detailed under procurement arrangements. The impacts on financial management
arrangements as they will particularly relate to required coordination between the PMU and the
CMU as well as the disbursement and audit aspects are detailed in the related sections of this



51
attachment under the financial management and audit arrangements. They also form part of the
TOR of the consultant that will appoint to implement the OM.
B.        Audit Arrangements
12. An independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank will audit the PFS. The audit will be
carried out in line with the International Standards on Auditing as published by the International
Federation of Accountants and the specific TOR acceptable to Bank2. The auditor will provide an
audit opinion on the PFS. The audit report should be submitted to the Bank within six months
from the end the fiscal year. The auditors will also provide a memorandum on the weaknesses in
the internal controls including suggestions for improvements in those controls and submit the
memorandum to the PMU and CMU for follow-up and implementation
13.      Action Plan. The timetable for implementation of the activities that should be undertaken
in relation to the financial management of the project is set out below.
Aciion                                                                                       Due Date                 Responsibility
I   A Decision by the Higher Economic Council on January 1, 2003 and a Presidential  The two account Codes to be   MPO/MOU
Decree have approved on February 4, 2003 the allocation of up to US$250million for established by May 25, 2003  PMU
the EERP The Decree instructs the MPO to establish two account codes in the
Development Budget of the MOI One account code will be established for the loan
proceeds and the second for the counterpart funds
2   (a)- Training of the FMS and the project financial staff in a Bank-funded project in As soon as the arrangements are  Bank and MOI
the region.                                                                 made
3 Appointment of a consultant to carry-out the following activities             Already discussed and will be      MOI/PMU
appointed by September 30, 2003
(i)       Procure, and set up (including training of the staff) a financial  Within three months of the project  MOIUPMU
managenient and accounting software that is suitable for use, responds to  start-up
the capability and familiarity of the users, and meets the Bank's
requirements for accounting and financial reporting,
(fi)      Implement accounting and financial procedures for the project, that are  Within two months of the end of the  MOI/PMU
contained in the OM and a chart of account, in compliance with the rules  period in (i) above
and regulations that govern the management of public expenditure in Iran,
as well as the terms and conditions ofthe loan agreement, at the PMU
(iii)     Implement procedures both for reporting on contracts managed by the  Within two months of the end of the  MOI/PMU/HF/CMU
CMU, and its supervision of the stock of material and equipment   period in (i) above
(Iv)      In the interim period, advice on the use of computer spreadsheets that are  As soon as the consultant is  MOIUPMU/HF/CMU
included in the OM and its annexes, both at the PMU and the CMU   appointed
4    Preparation of the format for the FMRs, and the reconciliation reports relating to  Is prepared and is included in the  Bank/
PMU records with those of the FC and the CMU                                OM                                 MOIUPMU/HF/CMU
5    Submission of the first FMR and other requested reports to the Bank for the quarter  February 4, 2004         PMU
2 See Terms of Reference in the last part of this Attachment 7.



52
ending December 21, 2003 Subsequent FMRs and other requested reports will be
submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end of the related quarter, as follows,
March 20, 2004                                                          May 4, 2004                      PMU
June 21,2004                                                            August 5,2004                    PMU
September 22, 2004                                                     November 6, 2004                  PMU
And so on and so forth
6   Appointment of auditors that are acceptable to the Bank                 December 31, 2003                MOUPMU
7   Preparation of a detailed Terms of Reference (TOR) for the annual audit of the  Is prepared and is included in the  Bank/ MOUPMU
project                                                                 OM
8.  Appointment of auditors that are acceptable to the Bank                 December 31, 2003                MOUPMU
9.  Evaluation of the financial management and reporting system by the World Bank  Within 18 months of the project  Bank
start-up



53
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR (MOI)
Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project (EERP)
Terms of Reference
For the Position of Financial Management Specialist (FMS)
Project Management Unit (PMU)
1.     Background
The Emergency Recovery Loan by the World Bank is designed to assist the reconstructions and
rehabilitations of the damaged housing, infrastructure and assets of economic/production
measures after the April 2002 earthquake in Kermanshah and the June 2002 earthquake in
Qazwin, Zanjan, and Hamedan.
The proposed Project comprises of:
Component-A. Reconstruction of Housing, Social and Public Inftastructure
Component B.' Economic Recovery for vulnerability reduction
Component-C Capacity Building and Project Management
Component-D. Disaster Insurance Preparation
The Project is implemented under the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and by the Project Management
Unit (PMU). Directions on overall project management are provided by the Steering Committee
for the Project. The Steering Committee will build on the existing structure of the National
Committee for the Reduction of Impact of National Disasters (NCNDR). The Steering Committee
will make major decisions and provide advice on the key direction of the project. The NCNDR is
chaired by the MOI and its membership includes Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance,
Management and Planning Organization (MPO), Iranian Red Crescent Society, most sectoral
ministries and a number of research institutes In addition to these members in the NCNDR, the
Steering Committee will include representatives of the provincial governments of Qazwin,
Zanjan, Hamedan and Kermanshah.
The PMU is a team of qualified specialists to be housed in the MOI for the Project's duration and
is an entity solely serving the Project. The main function of the proposed PMU will be to carry
out the day-to-day activities of project management and coordination.
The MOI is designating the Housing Foundation (HF) to act as the advisor on contract
management, through setting up a Contract Management Unit (CMU) at the HF. CMU will be
responsible for contract management activities related to the procurement of works, goods and
services contracts under Components A & B. The CMU assists the PMU in the preparation of
Request for Proposals and bidding documents, and in verifying the progress of contractors work
and certifying needed payments. Based on the information/reporting provided by the CMU The
PMU remains the responsible entity for exercising overall control for launching procurements,
signing and executing payments. For the technical assistance components, the PMU will take
direct responsibilities for procurement of consultant services and goods including the preparation
of Terms of References, and the bidding documents.



54
The PMU invites expression of interest from the qualified specialists to apply for the staff post for
the PMU.
2.     Context for Financial Management Arrangements
According to the Legal Agreement to be signed between the Government of Islamic Republic of
Iran and the World Bank, the PMU shall at all times maintain a financial management system,
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements for the project preparation
activities in a format acceptable to the World Bank and adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Loan/Project execution. Also the Governing Body shall
maintain records and supporting documents for all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Special Account were made (the records should reflect all categories of
withdrawals SOEs, direct payments and replenishments of the Special Account).
The Loan Agreement requires that the records, accounts and financial statements of the Project
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited FS should be submitted to the World Bank as soon they
become available but not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. In fulfillment of
this statutory (or Loan Agreement) requirement, the Governing Body should engage a qualified
independent audit firm according to terms of reference and scope of work acceptable to the World
Bank, as summarized below.
3.     Position and Responsibilities:
The Financial Management Specialist for the EERP will be a member of the Project Management
Unit (PMU) and is directly responsible and reports to the PMU Director. Under the Supervision
of the Project Director, the FMS will responsible for monitoring and coordination aspects of the
financial management, audit and disbursement arrangements of the project that are provided in
and govemed by the loan agreement. Those arrangements include the responsibility for
maintenance of project accounts, preparation of reports, coordination of audit arrangements, and
compliance with disbursement arrangements. While administratively responsible to the Project
Director, on a functional level, (s) he will work closely with the Financial Controller from the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance who is assigned to the project.
4.     Functions and Duties:
The FMS will assist in the introduction and the regular operation of a financial management
polices and procedures for the PMU that will be in line with the IBRD guidelines OP/BPIO.02.
(S) he will ensure that the financial management system provides a basis for the reliable
recording of all the project-related financial transactions, and has the capability for the
preparation of the financial statements and reports in a timely manner and in line with the
requirements of the IBRD. Specific functions and duties of the FMS will be, but are not limited,
to:
A.     For The financial operations that are managed by the PMU
o  Set-up and operate a manual accounting and financial management system, internal
control mechanisms, accounting policies and procedures;
*  Establish procedures for authorizing the procurement of works, goods and services,
maintain material and equipment accounting and control, follow-up the activities of the



55
Special Account, for an effective management, and prepare the reports for use by the
PMU until such time that a computerized system is established and operational, which is
expected within five months from September 30, 2003;
* Participate in the selection and implementation of accounting software, design a Chart of
Accounts for introduction into the computerized system, enter data from the manual to
the computerized system, test the new system, and convert of the financial information
from the manual system to the computerized system,
* Establish and maintain, in a computerized environment, suitable internal control
mechanisms, document all the related accounting policies and procedures, and ensure that
all accounting records are properly maintained and are current;
* Prepare the project's annual budget projections, prepare and complete all the required
forrns, follow-up the forms in the approval of expenditure as well as payment steps as
they relate to the national budget execution and control processes, including submission
of the forms and supporting documents for payment;
* Safeguard of the project assets, financial records and documents;
* Prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR), and the annual Project Financial
Statements (FMS) in line with the guidelines provided in the loan document.
* Process Withdrawal Applications for the Special Account; and
* Respond to requests from the IBRD, and/or the auditors for clarification or additional
information.
B.     For the Contract management activities that are carried out by the CMU
* Coordinate, and monitor the related contract management and reporting activities of the
CMU, to include activities that are carried out in the provinces;
* (S)he should monitor and review on a regular basis material and equipment accounting
and control activities that will be carried out by the CMU;
* Provide guidance to the individuals that are assigned to the related functions.
5.     Minimum Required Qualifications:
The FMS should have a degree in accounting from an accredited university, and at least five
years of accounting experience. Ability to read and write in English, familiarity with use of the
computer, and basic accounting software are required. Familiarity with International Accounting
Standards (IAS) is preferred but is not required.



56
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAN
MINSTRY OF INTERIOR (MOl)
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT (EERP)
TERMS OF REFERENCE (TOR)
FOR
ESTABLISHING A FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPERATING MANUAL (OM)
AT
THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PMU)
AND
THE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT UNIT (CMU)
A.     OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
1.     The objective of the assignment is to design and assist the PMU in establishing a
financial control and accounting system, which meets the bank requirements for accounting,
internal control and financial reporting, and assist the CMU in contract management and
reporting. The system at the PMU should provide for the recording the project's financial
operations and activities, and have the capability for the production of financial statements and
reports in a timely fashion, and safeguard project assets and resources. The arrangements at the
CMU should provide for contract management and reporting in a manner to ensure that an
effective control over management, execution and payments of contract is in place.
B.     SCOPE OF WORK OF THE CONSULTANT
2.     The Consultant will work with MOI/PMU personnel to develop and implement a project
financial management system, and the HF/CMU personnel to implement a suitable procedure for
reporting by the CMU to the PMU on contract management and execution on a fast track basis so
that the system is operational no later than five months from the Consultant's appointment that
will not be later than September 30, 2003 (i.e., February 29, 2004) As an interim measure, and to
avoid dela5ying Loan Effectiveness, The Consultant will assist the PMU in the use of the existing
accounting system in use at the MOI, and the CMU in applying the existing contract management
arrangements at the HF so as these activities will be subject to intemal control procedures and
documented operational policies and procedures for the management of public expenditure in
Iran. In addition, in the interim period, the consultant will provide assistance to the PMU and the
CMU in the use of the computer spreadsheets that contained in the OM for contract accounting
and the preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), and other requested reports to be
submitted to the Bank as well as for the Project Financial Statements (PFS) for submission to the
auditors.
3.     The scope of work (and the deliverables) of the Consultant will be the identification of
the needs of the PMU for financial management, accounting, and financial reporting as laid out in
the OM and implementation of those needs, and in a similar vein for contract management at the
CMU. The Consultant will specifically do the following:



57
* Identify, procure, and install an accounting software that meets the requirements of
the PMU as laid out in the OM, and is suitable for use, responds to the capability
and familiarity of the users, and meets the Bank's requirements for accounting and
financial reporting (to include both the FMRs and the annual PFS),
*  Develop a comprehensive Chart of Accounts that is in line with the regulations in
Iran and also meet the Bank's requirements for accounting and financial reporting
in writing, and install that in the Software,
* Run dummy transactions and prepare dummy reports in line with the requirements
of the Bank for financial reporting (FMRS and the PFS), and those of the
MOIVPMU,
* Train the FMS and a back-up staff in the use of the software,
* Implement accounting and financial procedures for the project that are contained in
the OM with due regard to the issues that will be raised by the officials of the
MOI/PMU to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations that govern the
management of public expenditure in Iran as well as the terms and conditions of
the loan agreement, and clearly document the changes and additions in writing and
integrate them in the existing OM as and where appropriate, and
* Explain different aspects contained in the revised OM to the MOI/PMU for
implementation purposes. In particular, advise the PMU in setting up the detailed
procedures and processes that meet the Bank's requirements for accounting,
internal controls and financial reporting,
* Carry out a similar exercise as it relates to the implementation of the OM, as
above, at the HF/CMU for contract management and execution and in particular
introduce procedures (i) at the HF/CMU for reporting to the MOI/PMU on contract
executions, (ii) for processing payment at the MOI/PMU to the contractors, and
(iii) for supervision of equipment and material management functions at the
HF/CMU,
* In the interim period, advice on the use of computer spreadsheets that are included
in the OM and its annexes, both at the PMU and the CMU.
4.TTHE ADVISE BY THE CONSULTANT SHOULD EXTEND TO:
a. Internal Controls
Defining (in writing) clearly administrative, accounting and operational processes (based on the
procedures contained in the OM) that define levels of authority and responsibilities, ensure an
orderly and efficient payment and procurement process, and properly record and safeguard
project-related assets and resources. Specific attention should be given to establishing:
* A process to identify and track sources of project financing, including the flow of
funds and the timing of such flows (whether direct to the project or through
government entities);
* A suitable authorization process for award of contracts and purchase of equipment
and supplies, including documentation procedures;
* An appropriate segregation of duties and responsibilities, including invoice
processing, accounting duties, and payment functions;
* Design and help implement the use of standard forms for recording and controlling
all transactions;
* Arrangements for storing project documents and restricting access to authorized
personnel only.



58
b. Accounting System
The accounting system developed for the PMU should reflect project needs and be designed to
provide financial information to all interested parties, including the PMU, the Bank, and
oversight agencies. The computerized system, at a minimum, should:
o Provide information which is compatible with agreed accounting standards;
o Permit the establishment of a Chart of Accounts which has a logical structure for
recording accounting transactions, is based on the project's budget, and has the
capacity to classify and sub-classify accounting data;
o Facilitate the development of a budgeting system, including planned allocation of
resources, which would be coordinated with the financial accounts in order to
reconcile budget variances with financial figures;
o Summarize accounting balances by source (World Bank or counterpart), category
(works, goods or services), and project component;
o Record individual transactions by vendor;
o Allow for transfers and adjustments between accounts;
o Assist the user to process and maintain Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); and
o Provide financial data to measure project performance and create audit trails.
c. Accounting Standards
In line with the national accounting standards, supplemented, where justifiable, by the
International Accounting Standards (IAS). The use of IAS standards helps to ensure consistent
recording of financial data and presentation of financial statements, and greatly facilitates
interpretation of the information presented.
d Records Management
The management of records should provide-a paper trail on which the accounting system is based,
and verification of financial transactions. For each financial transaction, an individual record
should be created. Records management should include:
o Clearly defined procedures for creating and maintaining records;
o Adequate backup procedures;
o The storage of physical financial records under lock and key and safe from
environmental risks (fire and water damage); and
o Easy access for authorized personnel only.
e.     Financial Reporting
THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SHOULD BE CAPABLE OF
PRODUCING A FULL ARRAY OF MFIANCLAL STATEMENTS AND REPORTS,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO:
o The annual PFS, including the balance sheet, sources and uses of funds, cash flow
statements, and notes to the financial statements; and other reports as contained in
the OM,
o The quarterly FMR as defined in the Guide for Borrowers



59
C. SCHEDULE
5.     The PMU will appoint a project Financial Management Specialist (FMS) who will work
closely with the Consultant to develop and implement a financial management system for the
project according to the work plan shown below. If the Consultant does not reside in Iran, the
Consultant needs to coordinate his travel arrangements with the Project Manager and the FMS at
the PMNU in an effective manner so as to avoid delays in implementation. The travel arrangements
should be in place no later than the end of September 2003. Until such time that the consultant is
appointed, the FMS (should the FMS be appointed earlier) will begin developing a framework
for the requirements of the system and the required interface needs with the office of the
Financial Controller of the Ministry of Economic Affaires and Finance who is assigned to the
MOI. Again, if the Consultant does not reside in Iran, the Consultant should make him (her) self
familiar with the financial management system already in place at the MOI and the HF before
traveling to Iran.
6.    If the Consultant does not reside in Iran, the Consultant must be willing to spend up to
three months (continuous) in Iran beginning on or about October 1, 2003.
Minimum Required Experience and Qualifications:
7.     The Consultant should have previous demonstrated experience in and/or knowledge of:
(i) Bank-funded projects, and be familiar with the Bank requirements for financial management
arrangements of the projects, (ii) installation of accounting software and training of staff, (iii)
implementation of financial management, accounting and internal control procedures, contract
management activities, and (iv) public expenditure management rules and regulations in general,
and preferably as it relates to Iran. The Consultant must be fluent in English, and have a working
knowledge of Farsi.



60
llslamic Republic of Iran (1RI)
MINISTRY OF INERJOR (MOl)
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project (EERP)
Terms of Reference (TOR)
for the Audit of the EEIRJP
1. Project Background:
The government of IRI has obtained a loan of US$180million from the World Bank to finance the
implementation of EERP "the Project". The MOI is the Governing Body and is entrusted in the
execution and supervision of the implementation of the project through a Project Management
Unit ("PMU") located within the MOI. The Project comprises of:
Component-A: Reconstruction of Housing, Social and Public Infrastructure
Component B- Economic Recovery for vulnerability reduction
Component-C: Capacity Building and Project Management
Component-D. Disaster Insurance Preparation
The Project is implemented under the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and by the Project Management
Unit (PMU). Directions on overall project management are provided by the Steering Committee
for the Project. The Steering Committee will build on the existing structure of the National
Committee for the Reduction of Impact of National Disasters (NCNDR). The Steering Committee
will make major decisions and provide advice on the key direction of the project. The NCNDR is
chaired by the MOI and its membership includes Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance,
Management and Planning Organization (MPO), Iranian Red Crescent Society, most sectoral
ministries and a number of research institutes. In addition to these members in the NCNDR, the
Steering Committee will include representatives of the provincial governments of Qazvin,
Zanjan, Hamedan and Kermanshah.
2.     Context for the Annual Audit:
According to article 4.01. (or exact article) of the Loan/Credit Agreement no., the Governing
Body of the Project {through the PMU} shall at all times maintain a financial management
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements for the project in a
format acceptable to the World Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Project. Also the Governing Body shall maintain (i) records and
supporting documents for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made (the records should reflect all categories of withdrawals: SOEs, direct
payments and SA replenishments), and (ii) records of contract managed by the Contract
Management Unit (CMU) that will act as advisor to the PMU on contract matters and is located at
the Housing Foundation. The Project Financial Statements ("PFS") are comprised of :(a) the
Balance Sheet at the fiscal year (period) closing date; (b) Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds
Project for the year (period) then ending, (c) Statement of Withdrawals, indicating withdrawals
made on the basis of the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), (d) Special Account Reconciliation
Statement as of year end; and (e) with respect to the activities that are carried out by the CMU: (i)
Statement of the Physical Stock of Equipment and Material, and (ii) Statement of Contract



61
Executions and Contract Commitments. For procurements of goods and services to the Project,
the Governing Body is committed to comply with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The
Loan Agreement requires that the records, accounts and financial statements mentioned above
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited PFS should be submitted to the World Bank as soon
they become available but any way not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. In
fulfillment of this statutory (or Loan Agreement) requirement, the Governing Body should
engage a qualified independent audit firm according to terms of reference and scope of work
acceptable to the World Bank, as summarized below.
3.     Objective of the Annual Audit:
The primary objective of the audit engagement is to enable the auditor to express a professional
opinion as to whether (i) the Project Financial Statements (PFS) show true and fair view of the
Project's financial position as of MM/DD/YY and funds receipts and expenditures incurred
during the period then ending. (ii) expenditures reimbursed on basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) are eligible to Bank financing and are reflected on the PFS, (iii) the Special
Accounts (SA) have been used exclusively for payment of eligible expenditures as reflected in the
PFS, (iv) the Statement of the Physical Stock of Equipment and Material correctly reflects the
physical on hand as of the end of the fiscal year (period), and (v) Statement of Contract
Executions and Contract Commitments correctly reflects the position at the end of the fiscal year
(period).
To accomplish this objective, the auditor shall carry out whatever necessary examninations of the
statements and underlying records and control systems. The Audit opinion should also state
whether the Procurement Guidelines of the World Bank have been properly applied and in
accordance with the Project's Loan/Credit Agreement.
As stated above, the PFS includes: (a) the Project Balance Sheet, (b) A Statement of Sources and
Uses of Funds, indicating funds received from various sources and project expenditures, (c) A
Statement of the Physical Stock of Equipment and Material, and (d) A Statement of Contract
Executions and Contract Commitments,
And also the statements for (e) a SA Reconciliation Statement, and (f) a Statement of
Withdrawals, indicating withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE).
4.     Scope of the Annual Audit:
The subject of audit of Project accounts and funds flow is considered as a special purpose
contractual agreement audit for which, in addition to compliance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISA), the auditor needs to consider the World Bank reporting requirements and
compliance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The audit scope includes:
i) The audit will be carried out in accordance with the ISA, as published by the
International Federation of Accountants, or Generally Accepted Auditing Standards
(GAAS), and/or the Standards issued by the INTOSAI, having regard to relevant
financing agreements and World Bank specific requirements, and should pay special
attention to the following:



62
(a) All funds provided to the Project have been used, accounted for and
classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreements;
(b) All the transactions related to the project are reflected in the PFS issued
according to Generally accepted Accounting Policies
(c) Goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the
relevant financing agreement;
(d) All necessary copy of supporting documents, records, and accounts have
been kept in respect of all project ventures (including expenditures reported
via SOEs and/or FMRs8, and other reports). Clear linkages should exist
between the books of account and reports that are submitted to the Bank;
(e) Where Special Accounts have been used, they have been maintained in
accordance with the provisions of the relevant financing agreement;
(f) Compliance with specific covenants of the Loan Agreement, (Project
Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreement} (e.g., compliance with the
short-term and long-term borrowing conditions, cash flow covenant);
(g) Determine eligibility of expenditures claimed under Statement of
Expenditures submitted to the World Bank for replenishment. This is in
addition to substantiation of these expenditures;
ii) The auditor will be expected to review all correspondences with the World Bank in
relation to the Project including copies of the Aide Memoires, Mission Reports, and
assess progress on all financial issues
iii) The auditor will pay special attention to any specific risk area as mentioned in the
project documents (PIP, PAD, and other Bank-generated or related documents).
The general principles applying to the auditors are listed in Annex 1 to the current TOR.
5.     Audit Deliverables:
There are two main deliverables of the Audit Engagement:
i)     Audit Report: which includes
(1) An explicit professional opinion whether (i) the PFS give a true and fair view
of the state of the Project's affairs, (ii) expenditures reimbursed on basis of
SOE are eligible to Bank financing and are reflected on the PFS, and (iii) the
SA has been used exclusively for payment of eligible expenditures as
reflected in the PFS.
(2) The Auditors should take into account relevant statutory and other mandatory
disclosures and accounting requirements stipulated in the Loan Agreement
and express in the report any relevant exception and the impact of the
exception on the PFS
s SOE: Statement of Expenditures; is a list of eligible expenditures incurred on the Project and submitted
along with Withdrawal Application for replenishment of the Special Account by the World Bank
FMR: Financial Monitoring Reports; 3 sets of progress reports showing uses and sources of funds, funds
needed for next quarter, physical progress and contract monitor reports. FMR will replace SOE and can be
attached to Withdrawal Application to finance the Special Account.



63
A model of unqualified audit opinion for a Project's financial statements is attached as
Annex 2 to the current TOR.
ii)    Management Letter:
The Auditors should report by way of a management letter any significant accounting and
control issues arising from the audit, as identified during the internal control mechanisms
review together with the related risk. The letter, with management responses, and
recommendation to address the situation and insufficiencies, should be made available to
the Project's governing body in time. As annex of the management letter the auditor will
mention whether or not recommendations issued on the previous management letter have
been considered by the PIU and/or governing body.
6.     Audit Process:
Audit will be conducted in two phases:
Interim Phase: to be undertaken during the last four months of the current fiscal year which will
be dedicated to the review of the internal control system for the project, compliance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines, and conduct preliminary audit and risk assessment.
Final Phase: to be during the four months following the end of the fiscal year to be dedicated to
the update of the interim review and complete financial audit.
7.     General Principles for the Audit:
The auditor should be registered as certified public accountants with the appropriate
professional body in the country and have substantial experience in auditing major projects in
the country. In case of government auditing, the audit team should be adequately staffed with
qualified auditors having substantial experience in auditing major projects. The same audit
principles should be applied if the audit is conducted by private or government auditors. The
general principles under which the audit will be conducted are according to [AS or GAAS
and are summarized in Annex 1.
8.    Irregularities Including Fraud
The Governing Body is responsible for ensuring the establishment and maintenance of an
adequate system of internal control. It is also responsible for ensuring compliance with
statutory and other regulations, and for the prevention and detection of irregularities,
including fraud. Although, the Auditors are not required to search specifically for such
matters, the Audit shall be planned and conducted so that the Auditors have a reasonable
expectation of detecting material misstatements in the accounts resulting from irregularities,
including fraud, or breach of regulations.
The Auditors will report in writing any serious weaknesses, fraud, irregularities or accounting
break-downs that they come across in the normal course of their duties to the designated
office holder, Governing Body, and the World Bank without delay.



64
9.     Access to Information and Documents
The Auditors shall have rights of access to the books, accounts, vouchers, Loan Agreement,
Project Agreement and related Supplemental Letters, Project Appraisal Document,
correspondence, and all other documents in relation of the Project and to such information
and explanations as auditors consider necessary to perform their duties and fulfill their
responsibilities. In addition, the auditors will be provided with copies of the World Bank
publications that the governing body has to recognize including: (i) World Bank guidelines
"Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook" (FARAH) (ii) the World Bank
"Project Financial Management " issued in February 1998 (iii) the World Bank "Procurement
Guidelines"
In turn, on occasions where the World Bank representative may wish to meet with Projects'
auditors, particularly in connection with a visit to the auditors office and review the audit
working papers files and discuss the work performed and conclusion reached by the auditors.
The Auditor should not limit access in any way and must reply to all inquiries raised by the
World Bank representative. Failure to comply with this provision may disqualify the auditors
from dealing with the all projects funded or administered by the World Bank. Formal
discussion should normally be arranged through the Project's designated office holder or
representative. The World Bank will have this exclusive right during performance of the audit
and within 2 years after completion of the audit engagement.
10.    Annual Meetings
The Auditor will be requested to attend the meeting of the Governing Body to which the
Project's annual reports and financial statements of account are presented. The Auditor will
receive all notices and other communications relating to that meeting which any member of
the Governing Body is entitled to receive. The Auditor will discuss the audit report and
management report and any part of the business, which concerns the auditor.
11.    Termination of Appointment
If there are serious shortcomings on the part of the Auditor, the Governing Body, after
consultation with the World Bank, may pass a resolution to remove the Auditors before the
expiry of their assignment.
12)    Restriction of Auditor's Liability
There is no limitation of the auditors' liability in respect of audit opinions given under this
assignment. The Project's Governing Body will not agree to any such restriction in liability.



65
Annex 1
General Principles for Auditors
Duties
The audit of Project's funds constitutes audit procedures additional to those required
under International Auditing Standards on Auditing, since auditors are also concerned
with the World Bank's requirements and, if applicable, those of other donors.
Independence
Auditors should avoid the following:
a. Official, professional and personal relationships which might cause the auditor to limit
the extent or character of the audit.
b. Any involvement in the executive management of the Project.
c. Any interest, financial or non-financial, direct or indirect, in the Project.
Due professional care
In exercising due professional care auditors should:
a. Take reasonable steps to obtain information relevant to the audit. Auditors should take
into account information from the Project and the related ministry, any changes in
legislation, and the results of previous audit work.
b. Keep up to date with developments in professional matters.
c. Look out for and take into account any unusual circumstances.
d. Consider audit objectives and plan work to adhere to them.
e. Document the conclusions arising from the planning process, and detail a budget for
staff and time.
f. Discuss the main features of the audit with the Project management and the World
Bank representative.
g. Ensure that audits are staffed with suitably qualified and experienced personnel, and
that work is properly controlled and reviewed. Also co-ordinate the work of specialist
staff.
h. Obtain and document sufficient and complete audit evidence, so that an experienced
auditor with no previous connection with the audit can ascertain what work was done and
what conclusions were reached.
i. Ensure that conclusions are adequately supported by reliable evidence.
j. Maintain objectivity at all times.
k. Preserve confidentiality where appropriate.



66
Annex 2
An Unqualified Audit Report
The suggested form of the wording of the unqualified report should be:
Date of the audit report
TO GOVERNING BODY OF.......................................
Address
We have audited the balance sheet of ABC Project as of December 31, 2000 and the
Statement of funds receipts and expenditures for the year then ended.
Respective responsibilities of the governing body and auditors
The governing body is responsible for ensuring that financial statements are prepared. It
is our responsibility to form an independent opinion, based on our audit, on those
statements and to report our opinion to you.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and such
other specific procedures requested by the Governing Body.  An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, evidence supporting amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments
made by the governing body in the preparation of the financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Project's (group's) circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial
statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
The financial statements referred to above give a true and fair view of the balance sheet
of the Project and the balance of the reconciled Special Account as of December 31,
200X (each fiscal year) and the statement of funds receipts and expenditures for the year
then ended. Also, expenditures provided in statement of expenditures are properly
supported and represent eligible expenditures under the Loan Agreement. Also,
procurements of goods and services incurred during the year were conducted in
accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines issued in October 1995.



67
Note: Above is the wording of an unqualified audit report. Any subsequent qualifcations
will then be based on the auditor's professional judgment in compliance with the
International Standards on Auditing (ISA)



68
ATTACHMENT 8:
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT STAFF
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(a) Organization of the PMU
The main function of the PMU will be to carry out the day-to-day activities of project
management and coordination including:
* Reporting to the Project's Steering Committee and serving as the secretariat to the
Steering Committee;
*  Liaising with concerned provincial govemments and sector ministries;
* Working as the main counterpart to the World Bank during the Project implementation;
* Providing guidance to the CMU;
*  Ensuring and preparing intemal documents and obtaining necessary internal approval
process for the Project within the Govemment;
* Acting as an entity to authorize and processing all the payments through the Special
Account; and,
* Ensuring compliance with World Bank financial management and procurement.
Procedure.
(b) Proposed staffing of PMU:
* Director
* Financial Management Specialist
* Accountant
* Technical Coordinator
* Engineer
* Economist
* Office Manager/Secretary who will further assume additional role of translator/interpreter
for correspondences with the Bank's mission.
* Driver
* Janitor/Cleaner
A detailed description of the Temns of Reference for the Project Management Unit Staff is
included in the Project Files and Operational Manual.



69
ATTACHMENT 9:
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR:
THE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT UNIT STAFF
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
The implementation of Component-A and Component-B of the EERP will be carried-out by the
Housing Foundation (HF) with the support of a Contract Management Unit (CMU) that will be
appointed by the HF's Project Director. The CMU structure is designed to accommodate seven
(7) professional staff. The number of employees can be expanded depending on the volume of
subprojects that the CMU will be handling. The CMU would initially include the following staff:
(a) Project Manager
(b) Procurement Officer
(c) Liaison Officer
(d) Information Technology Officer
(e) Supervising Officers (3no.)
The CMU will act on behalf of the PMU and will be responsible for project implementation and
supervision including the preparation of tender documents and request for proposals for the
procurement of works, goods and services. The CMU will also participate and provide logistical
support to the evaluation processes (Requests for Proposals, Terms of Reference, and
participation in the evaluation of offers with recommendations for contract award, and follow up
on contract signing and legal documentation). The CMU will secure the prior approval of the
MPO for the financing of sectoral sub-projects. It will provide also contract management support
to sector ministries and will assist them in the selection of contractors and consultants for works,
technical assistance and studies. The CMU will supervise contracts under execution, carryout
project monitoring and certify payments to contractors.
The Project Manager will be fully responsible for the sound implementation of the project
according to the "Implementation Agreement" with the Ministry of Interior. An environmental
specialist will be recruited on demand basis and will assist the Supervising Officers in monitoring
the environmental compliance of subprojects on a bi-annual basis. The full job description of
professional CMU staff is included in the attached table.
The CMU will assume the reporting responsibilities and prepare quarterly and annual progress
reports in addition to the completion report. The specific activities that will be carried-out by the
CMU are described below:
(a)- Project Preparation and Procurement
* Ensuring the timely implementation of Component-A and Component-B of the EERP and
constantly updating the PMU at the MOI on progress.
* Advising sector ministries and government agencies, on the preparation of the request for
proposals and tender documents for the procurement of services, goods and works under the EERP.



70
o Advising on procurement evaluation committees for sector subprojects at the different ministries.
O Developing and updating monitoring and evaluation indicators for the different types of
subprojects
o Ensuring coordination with government agencies and securing the prior approval of the MPO for
the financing of sub-projects.
o Screening subprojects to identify those classified EA Category B for further review and ensure
compliance with the EA Guidelines and that appropriate mitigation measures are incorporated in
subproject designs and are being implemented.
o Maintaining accurate procurement records, including all actions and documents. This includes
advertisement, preparation of bids, invitation to bid, record of bid submissions, bid opening,
evaluation of bids, contract award and performance of the contracts. The Procurement files will be
maintained for review by the World Bank supervision missions.
(b)- Project Supervision and Monitoring
o Supervising project execution and, monitoring all activities linked to subproject implementation
including the preparation of quarterly and annual reports.
o Designing, developing and maintaining a Project Management Information System (PMIS) to
facilitate the monitoring of the EERP. The PMIS will help managing in real time key information
about sub-project activities and performance. The PMIS would consist of an interactive database
system that would enable tracking of program activities, implementation benchmarks, and output
process and impact indicators.
o Informing the PIU at the MOI of potential delays and changes in subproject costs and financial
requirements.
o Providing the services of environmental specialists to supervise those subprojects classified EA
Category B, and ensuring that appropriate environmental mitigation measures are incorporated in
both the design and the implementation of subprojects.
o Actively participating in all project reviews, particularly the mid-term review and assist the PMU
at the MOI in the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
A detailed description of the Terms of Reference for the Contract Management Unit Staff is
included in the Project Files and the Operational Manual.



71
ATTACHMENT 10:
SUMMARY OF MONITORING INDICATORS
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
COMPONENTS                   KEY PERFORMNACE INDICATORS                         MONITORING AND
EVALUATION
A. RECONSTRUCTION OF
HOUSING. SOCIAL & PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE
(a)  % of damafed housing units repaired and      (a)  Quarterly & Yearly Progress
reconstructed in compliance with seismic          Reports, Bank supervision
standards                                         reports and Third Party
(b)  % of housing projects that are funded under the   Audits
EERP in compliance with the Project Selection
Criteria for the housing sector as mentioned in the
MOP
(c) % of social and public infrastructure projects that
are funded under the EERP in compliance with
the Sector Selection Criteria as mentioned in the
MOP
(d) % of damaged and destroyed social and public
infrastructure repaired and reconstructed in
compliance with seismic standards
B. ECONOMIC
RECOVERY
(a)  % of sector projects that are funded under the  (a)  Quarterly & Yearly Progress
EERP in compliance with the Sector Selection     Reports, and Bank
Criteria as mentioned in the MOP                  supervision reports
C. CAPACITY BUILDING
& PROJECT
MANAGEMENT
(a)  Stocktaking of past national and local emergency (a)  Quarterly & Yearly Progress
response expenences in Iran completed             Reports, and Bank
supervision reports
(b) Public campaign on disaster preparedness
launched, and production of short-films and
booklets, educational sessions for the public
completed
(c) Timely implementation of the project, in
accordance with procurement and disbursement
guidelines
D. DISASTER INSURANCE
PREPARATION
(a) Quarterly & Yearly Progress
(a)  Completing the formulation of a comprehensive    Reports, and Bank
proposal for the establishment of an Iranian     supervision reports
disaster insurance company/agency
(b) Carrying-out training on the enforcement of
building codes for local govemments
(c) Preparing a draft Natural Disaster Draft Insurance
Law and carrying-out discussions with
stakeholders including the "Majlis" and the
"Guardian Council"









Reporit No.: T      7588  IRN
Type:     YAN



