Report No. PID11502
Project Name                     IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF-IR-Earthquake
Emergency Response
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Theme                            NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT
Project                          P080802
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency(ies)         OIETAI, MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC
AFFAIRRS AND FINANCE (MOEAF)
Address: Nasser Khosrow Avenue
Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran
Contact Person: Mr. Mohamed Khazaee Torshizi
Fax: 98-21-390-1033
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                October 6, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              November 8, 2002
Bank Approval Date               February 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The June 22, 2002 Earthquake
An earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale struck the four Provinces of
Qazwin, Zanjan, Hamedan and Markazi in Iran on 22 June 2002. This has
resulted in 232 deaths, 1,466 injuries and more than 33,085 damaged houses.
The Government of Iran (GOI) estimates the value of the damages to be around
US$140 million. These refer to destruction of buildings, loss of household
properties and commercial equipment, as well as damage to social and public
infrastructure, livestock and agricultural production means. They exclude
losses in wages, production, market share, sales, tax revenue, as well as the
actual cost of the relief effort and financial compensation. The data on
damages indicates that the most important impact has been on the region's
housing and social infrastructure, such as schools, health centers, hospitals
and cultural/historical buildings.
Most of the population affected by the disaster is of the low-income groups
who live in mud-constructed houses, with limited means to build better
structures, and other materials such as bricks and cement have also been used
without adequate reinforcement. The region's infrastructure also suffered
considerable damage including the primary and secondary roads, transmission
lines and the water and sewerage systems. The earthquake also caused direct
damages to livestock, agricultural crops, deep wells, and irrigation systems,
rural roads and to processing and storage structures and farm equipment as
well as assets of other input suppliers (fertilizers, pesticides). The
earthquake affected a total of 373 villages and 4 cities.
Background of Qazwin, Zanjan, Hamedan and Markazi



The provinces of Qazwin, Hamedan, Zanjan and Markazi are located in the
northwest part of Iran and serve as a bridge between Tehran and the northern
and western regions as well as the Caucasus republics and Europe. The
affected area is highlands covered with mountains and green slopes.     People
engage in primary activities such as agriculture and cattle rearing. Qazwin,
Zanjan and Markazi towns are important transit centers on the main route
between Tehran and the Northwest of Iran. The provinces are highly
susceptible to earthquakes and a number of the villages and towns of the area
have been rebuilt in the past.
Country's seismic risks and their impacts
Iran is known to be one of the most earthquake prone countries in the world.
With two major seismic belts, the entire country faces moderate to very high
seismic risks. One runs along the Zagros Mountains in southern Iran along
the Persian Gulf. The other belt runs through northern Iran around the
Caspian Sea. Earthquakes in the northern belt are particularly hazardous as
many people live in this region. This northern seismic belt connects the
tectonic activity in Turkey, to the west, to the on-going mountain building
and seismicity in the Himalayas to the east. In the 20th century alone, 20
large earthquakes have claimed more than 140,000 lives, destroyed many
villages and cities and caused extensive economic damage to the country.
Vulnerability and future risks in the areas affected by the June 2002
Earthquake
The major vulnerability derives from the fact that in the village areas
affected by the earthquake, housing construction relies on the traditional
methods of mud bricks and which lacks structural reinforcement. These local
construction methods have a poor seismic safety record, particularly for low-
income households and are a main cause of fatalities following earthquakes in
the region.
Poverty is another element of vulnerability. As indicated in the Human
Development Indicators, the affected provinces are amongst the poorest
regions in the country.    Agriculture activities, the primary source of
income, have been affected and the population is deprived of the main sources
of income.    The remote access to the villages makes it difficult to deliver
materials and support needed for reconstruction of their livelihoods.
Furthermore, according to the National Red Crescent Society, the affected
provinces have historically received less attention in improving disaster
management capacities as compared to other earthquake areas such as Rasht and
Gilan.   Infrastructure needed for relief activities such as relief centers
for stocking relief goods and organization of volunteers have not been fully
established. The Society sees this June earthquake as an opportunity to
boost the populations' interest in strengthening the base for emergency
response. It plans to construct relief centers to stock the relief goods and
as a base of relief activities in these areas, matched with series of
training programs for local volunteers.
Institutional capacity of emergency response and disaster management in Iran
Two issues remain critical in the country's disaster management system.
First, the emergency response capacity has improved considerably, but it is
-2 -



not sufficient for a large earthquake or a natural disaster in urban areas
like Tehran. Second, disaster management and planning system needs to be
improved both at the local and national levels, particularly on the aspects
of preparedness and risk mitigation.
Immediate response capacity of the GOI to emergencies involving search and
rescue activities has considerably improved over the past decade, building on
the experience of wars and previous earthquakes. Institutional mechanism has
been established under the Ministry of Interior for emergency response.
However, risk mitigation and preparedness aspects of the disaster management
systems remain to be strengthened both at the national and local levels,
including the enforcement of building codes, early warning and public
education. This is crucial in view of the fact that the country is
seismically prone and the potential impacts of the earthquakes on the
country's economy.    Inter-agency coordination on all aspects (research and
development, training and application) and all stages of disaster management
(prevention, relief, reconstruction) remain to be addressed to enable
smoother transition from relief to reconstruction and to prepare for future
potential disasters.
2. Objectives
The project objectives are to assist the GOI in:
(a) Relieving the social and economic hardship caused by the earthquake in
Qazwin, Zanjan, Hamedan and Markazi, with a focus on reconstruction by:
-       Enabling households and communities affected by the earthquake to
restart agriculture; and,
-       Reconstructing and repairing to earthquake resistant standards
houses and social and economic infrastructure.
(b) Strengthening capacity of the government to prevent, respond to and
recover from emergencies by:
-       Developing effective systems and institutions for earthquake
disaster monitoring, mitigation and management in order to
reduce/minimize the impacts of future earthquakes, particularly on
highly vulnerable social groups.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has accumulated a broad knowledge and growing operational experience
in disaster response in more than 30 different developing countries over the
past two decades.    Its integral approach of combining reconstruction efforts
to the enhancement of long-term preparedness for natural disasters and
institutional strengthening has been gaining a stronger support in the
developing countries. Particularly, its experience in assisting the
borrowers in establishing disaster insurance programs has made the Bank's
perspective in addressing long-term fiscal impacts of natural disasters and
their reconstruction costs. Throughout the MNA Region, the Bank as assisted
borrowers on post-disaster emergency reconstruction (e.g. Algeria, Iran, and
Yemen).    The Bank is thus in a strategically position to turn this natural
crisis into an opportunity to strengthen national and local institutions in
disaster management.    The Bank is also in a strategic position to provide a
platform for donors' assistance. The Bank's assistance is expected to
establish a base for the Government to solicit donors' support in
reconstruction.
-3-



4. Description
1.      The proposed project will consist of five components:
(a)     Housing Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$94 million);
(b)     Social and Public Infrastructure Component (Nominative cost
estimate: US$31 million);
(c)     Agriculture Support Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$15
million);
(d)     Technical Assistance Component (Nominative cost estimate: US$23
million); and,
(e)     Project management (Nominative cost estimate: US$0.5 million).
(a) Housing Component
This component will consist of the provision of building material along with
the on-going housing credit program targeting the victims as well as
technical assistance and construction supervision in the affected areas. The
previous Bank financed Earthquake Recovery Project (LN3301-IRN) financed
purchase of materials and equipment to construct based on an earthquake-
resistant housing model. This model will be reviewed during appraisal in
terms of its suitability to local culture, availability of materials and
disaster-resistant standards. Unit cost and its affordability will also be
reviewed. Based on this review, a choice will be made on materials,
construction structure. The Bank financing will cover the purchase of
materials and equipments, matched with technical assistance on building
system and quality assurance.
(b) Social and Public Infrastructure Component
This component would finance the rebuilding and repair of social
infrastructure such as schools and community centers. This component would
provide funding also for rebuilding and repairing of damaged water and
sewerage systems in the affected areas, including consulting services
required for the design and supervision of such subprojects. Public
infrastructure would be reconstructed to earthquake-resistant standards. The
corresponding utility or regulatory agency would ensure fulfillment of these
norms. This will be monitored by means of standard government control
mechanisms and will be subject to external financial and technical audits.
This component is expected to generate temporary employment for skilled and
semi-skilled laborers through the construction activities in the affected
areas.
(c) Agriculture Support Component
The component will aim at providing support to restore the economic
activities of the affected communities, namely in the agricultural sector. It
will finance purchase of crops and livestock to replace the losses, the
reconstruction of storage facilities and the provision of farming equipment
as well as fertilizers and pesticides. Donor support would be solicited to
cover the cost of this component.
(d) Technical Assistance Component
This component would strengthen the GoI's institutional capacity of: (a)
national and local governments in the management of disaster risk; (b)
- 4 -



research and training institutions; and (c) communities in the affected areas
and those in the earthquake prone areas.    While following up on the
institutional needs that have arose since the 1990 Earthquake Recovery
Project, it aims at strengthening inter-agency and inter-governmental
coordination on disaster management.    Proposed activities under this
component would include:
?       Stocktaking of past national and local emergency response experiences in
Iran. This would involve a review by independent team of international
experts of emergency preparedness leading to the identification of policy,
institutional and physical interventions aimed at reducing catastrophic
losses from natural disasters (nominative cost estimate: US$0.5 million);
?       Preparation of preparedness and mitigation plans (nominative cost
estimate: US$0.6million);
?       Zoning and land use mapping of high-risk areas. A risk map would be
prepared for each of the four Provinces and would focus mainly at areas
that suffer from social and economic deprivation. The map would define
high-risk areas and those suitable for construction. It would also provide
information on three different types of vulnerability whenever applicable:
seismic, landslides and flooding (nominative cost estimate: US$0.5
million);
?       Technical assistance on the improvement of the early warning and
monitoring system on seismic risks (nominative cost estimate: US$0.3
million);
?       Training on the enforcement of building codes for local governments
(nominative cost estimate: US$0.3 million);
?       Training in the areas of disaster prevention and mitigation (nominative
cost estimate: US$0.3 million);
?       Information dissemination and public awareness program on disaster risk
mitigations (nominative cost estimate: US$0.5 million); and,
?       Technical assistance on the design of a national-scale disaster insurance
program (nominative cost estimate: US$20 million.)
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($23.50)
IBRD ($140.00)
Total Project Cost: $163.50
6. Implementation
Before appraisal, GOI will prepare a draft Program Implementation Plan,
spelling out the detailed institutional and implementation arrangements.
Implementation arrangements are proposed to build on the experience of the
previous ERL on earthquake in 1990 (Earthquake Recovery Project: LN3301-IRN).
To avoid duplications and delay, the implementation arrangements will
maximize the existing arrangements on natural disaster relief and
reconstruction programs of the Government except for the proposed sub-
component on disaster insurance program. For the previous project, the
National Project Coordinator was housed under the Organization for
Investment, Economic and Technical Assistance for Iran (OIETAI) under the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Each sector ministry and agencies
involved in the project components were responsible for conducting
procurement and had reporting responsibilities to the Project Implementation
- 5 -



Unit (PIU). In this project, it is proposed that the PIU, composed of the
designates of each implementation agencies as sector/component coordinator
will be housed under the Ministry of Interior (MoI).     MoI, heading the
National Committee on Natural Disaster Reduction (NCNDR) is in a strategic
position to take the lead role in long-term policy development on disaster
management. The NCNDR will serve as the Steering Committee for the Project
to make major decisions and advise on the key direction of the Project.
Procurement and monitoring of the component's investment will be carried
under the PCU. Sector coordinators will ensure close supervision of the
implementation agencies' performance. For the disaster insurance program,
the Inter-Governmental Steering Committee on Disaster Insurance, composed of
representatives of MoEAF, Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, MoI and
Management and Planning Organization has been established to discuss
specifically on the insurance program. Establishment of a working group on
this sub-component is being proposed.    The relationship and modality of
coordination between the Steering Committee for the Project and this Inter-
Governmental Committee on Disaster Insurance remains to be clarified to
minimize complication and delay. It is proposed that the MoEAF will head the
Inter-Governmental Committee on Insurance. While a representative of the
Inter-Governmental Committee participates in the Steering Committee, the
Inter-Governmental Committee is specifically designated to provide overall
directions and make critical decisions on the insurance sub-component. It is
proposed that the designate of the working group on insurance program will
take part of the PIU to coordinate this sub-component under the guidance of
the Inter-Governmental Steering Committee.
7. Sustainability
The benefits of the program are expected to be sustainable due to the strong
emphasis on capacity development and institutional strengthening throughout
the project components. In reconstruction components (housing and social
infrastructure), technical assistance is included to improve disaster-
resistant construction and to supervise for quality control/assurance. In TA
component, the institutional strengthening will be addressed both at national
and local levels, in particular to improve inter-agency and inter-
governmental coordination on disaster management.
The sustainability of disaster management at the national level will be
dependant on the participating agencies' participation in establishing an
improved inter-agency coordination mechanism (flow of information, funds and
sharing/delegation of tasks) through the TA component with support of the
Management and Planning Organization. The sustainability of disaster
management at the local level will be dependent on having effective
participation in identifying mitigation measures, in building up the skills
and capacities of communities and the local governments in managing these
measures.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project Management Capacity: The common lessons in the past Bank-financed
projects concern the readiness of the borrower for implementation. It is
important to ensure adequate capacity to be built for carrying out
procurement and disbursement.    In the program preparation, through the
implementation of PHRD grant, intensive advisory support on the Bank's
procedures are being provided. The Bank will organize seminar on procurement
and disbursement during the Program's launch, paying particular attention to
the training needs of program implementation teams at the municipal level.
- 6 -



Lessons Learned by the GOI on earthquake reconstruction operations
Since the 1990 earthquake in Gilan, a significant shift has occurred in the
GOI's disaster reconstruction programs. This has included on one hand a move
away from the provision of temporary shelter and infrastructure while on the
other, an acceleration of permanent housing and reconstruction programs. More
focus has been granted also to economic, socio-cultural and environmental
issues and survivors played a major role in the design, management and
implementation of housing reconstruction programs. In rural areas, people who
were mostly dependent on land and farms were only relocated for safety
purposes and in areas adjacent to the location of their original villages.
Appropriate local construction material was used whenever possible. The above
approach has resulted in a reduction in the cost of reconstruction an in
increased satisfaction with the new settlement sites. The GOI has identified
a number of shortcomings from the post-earthquake reconstruction programs of
the last decades.
Lessons Learned from the Previous Earthquake Recovery Project in Iran
(LN3301-IRN)
The project design will build on lessons learned from the previous Bank
financed Earthquake Recovery Project (LN3301-IRN). The project design will be
simple and responsive to community needs. It will promote equitable
development and will be based on the extensive participation of the local
community. Whenever technically feasible, in-situ reconstruction will be
promoted in order to take advantage of existing infrastructure and community
facilities, and to minimize resettlement. Streamlined decision-making and
procurement procedures for contracting civil works will be sought. In order
to ensure quick disbursement, the project design will give special attention
to the flow of funds and information and to the capacity of the proposed
implementing agencies.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues :   No significant environmental issues are anticipated at
this point. This will be looked into in more detail at pre-appraisal.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Amir Al-Khafaji
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2187
Fax: 202-477-1993
11.     For information on other project related documents contact:
12.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
-7 -



be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 1, 2002.
- 8 -



