                                      Document of

                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001192




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (Loan No.: IBRD-46970)

                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$180 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                       THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                                       FOR THE

              EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT



                                  June 30, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective May 27, 2010)

             Currency Unit = Iranian Rial (IR)
                   1.00 = US$ 0.000104
                    US$ 1.00 = 9,600

                     FISCAL YEAR

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEERP   Bam Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
BRO     Bam Reconstruction Office
BPTF    Bam Provincial Task Force
EERP    Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project
ERL     Emergency Recovery Loan
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOI     Government of Iran
HF      Housing Foundation of the Islamic Revolution
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICHTO   Iranian Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization
IRCS    Iranian Red Crescent Society
IRI     Islamic Republic of Iran
ISA     International Standards on Auditing
ITC     Iran Telecommunications Company
KTC     Kerman Telecommunications Company
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOEAF   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOHME   Ministry of Health and Medical Education
MOI     Ministry of Interior
MICT    Ministry of Information and Communications Technology
MORT    Ministry of Roads and Transportation
MPO     Management and Planning Organization
NSTF    National Disaster Task Force
NGO     Non-Govemmental Organization
TCI     Telecommunication Company of Iran
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




             Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
           Country Director: Hedi Larbi
            Sector Manager: Anna M. Bjerde
        Project Team Leader: Soraya Goga
          ICR Team Leader: Christianna Johnnides
                                           Islamic Republic of Iran
                                    Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project

                                                       CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff .......................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ..........................................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs......................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) ....................................................................................................vi
I. Disbursement Profile .....................................................................................................vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.......................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 17

Annex 1             Project Costs and Financing........................................................................ 19
Annex 2.            Outputs by Component................................................................................ 20
Annex 3.            Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 21
Annex 4.            Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........... 22
Annex 5.            Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 25
Annex 6.            Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 29
Annex 7.            Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................... 33
Annex 8.            Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................... 34
Annex 9.            List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 35

MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                        Iran, Islamic Republic                            IR - Earthquake
Country:                                       Project Name:
                        of                                                Emergency Response
Project ID:             P080802                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-46970
ICR Date:               08/23/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF IRAN
Original Total
                        USD 180.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 174.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 174.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Management Unit (PMU) - EERP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/02/2002     Effectiveness:                              02/23/2004
Appraisal:            10/17/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/03/2003     Mid-term Review:        04/30/2005          05/04/2005
                                     Closing:                06/30/2007          06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                          Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower
                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       20                   20
General education sector                                               10                   10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  10                   10
Housing construction                                                   35                   35
Roads and highways                                                     25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   33                   33
Natural disaster management                                            33                   33
Other urban development                                                17                   17
Rural services and infrastructure                                      17                   17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                       Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                            Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Anna M. Bjerde                        Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:       Christianna Johnnides Brotsis         A. Amir Al-Khafaji
ICR Team Leader:           Christianna Johnnides Brotsis
ICR Primary Author:        Richard James


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's main objectives are to assist the Government in:



                                                   ii
  (a) relieving social and economic hardships(DO1) caused by the April 2002 earthquake
in Kermanshah, and the June 2002 earthquake in Qazvin, Zanjan and Hamedan through
the reconstruction of damaged public and private assets in the Project Area; and
  (b) developing an effective monitoring, mitigation and management system (DO2)
designed to reduce the impact of future earthquakes.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                           approval            Target        Completion or
                                          documents)           Values        Target Years
                Number of damaged housing units repaired and reconstructed in compliance with
Indicator 1 :
                seismic standards
Value
quantitative or 0                           24,200                              24,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2002                    12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
                Financed materials for reconstruction of houses in compliance within stated
Comments
                criteria. i) housing units destroyed after 4-25-02 earthquake ii) households
(incl. %
                already secured loans from gov't iii)construction design & cost estimates
achievement)
                completed iv) MPO approved
                Number of damaged and destroyed infrastructure facilities that have been
Indicator 2 : repaired or reconstructed in accordance with seismic standards acceptable to the
                Bank.
Value
quantitative or 0                           287                                 222 contracts
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2002                    12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments
                Project financed contracts to rehabilitate public infrastructure such as water and
(incl. %
                drainage networks, telephone, power, roads and electric systems
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of sub-projects carried out under part A1
Value
quantitative or 0                           6                                   5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2002                    12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments        Three ICB packages for construction machinery and two IS packages of steel
(incl. %        have been successfully procured that included steel, wheel loaders, double cabin
achievement) vans and dump trucks.
Indicator 4 : Number of sub-projects carried out under part A2
Value
                                            90 works and 3                      83 works and 3
quantitative or 0
                                            goods                               goods
Qualitative)


                                                iii
Date achieved     06/24/2002               12/31/2008                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of sub-projects carried out under part A3
Value
                                           161 works & 4                     157 works contracts
quantitative or   0
                                           goods                             & 4 goods contracts
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/24/2002               12/31/2008                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of sub-projects carried out under part B
Value
                                           36 works & 2                      25 works contracts
quantitative or   0
                                           goods                             & 2 goods
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/24/2002               12/31/2008                        06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Launching of a public campaign on disaster preparedness including short films,
Indicator 7 :
                booklets and educational sessions
                                           Model Public
Value
                                           Campaign
quantitative or 0                                                              100%
                                           designed and
Qualitative)
                                           launched
Date achieved 06/24/2002                   12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Carrying-out training on the enforcement of building codes for local government
Indicator 8 :
                staff.
                                           200 key
Value                                      government staff
quantitative or 0                          to be trained                       350 staff trained
Qualitative)                               across the 4
                                           provinces
Date achieved 06/24/2002                   12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments
                13 training sessions were carried out in the four afftected provinces to train 350
(incl. %
                local engineers
achievement)
                Completion of a report on Local Disaster Assessment & Implementation Strategy
Indicator 9 :
                detailing past national and local emergency response experience in Iran
Value
quantitative or 0                          1 report finalized                  1 report finalized
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2002                   12/31/2008                          06/30/2009
Comments



                                                iv
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                          Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                           documents)                       Target Years
                Combined construction work rate (subprojects under implementation) for
Indicator 1 :
                Components A and B
Value
(quantitative   0                       75%                                85%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/24/2002                12/31/2008                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of trainees who benefitted from the training program under the Capacity
Indicator 2 :
                Building Component
Value
(quantitative   0                       150                                300
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2003                12/31/2008                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of studies in progress under the Capacity Building Component
Value
(quantitative   0                       5                                  8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2003                12/31/2008                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/08/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     10/22/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     04/30/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     3.80
  4     09/30/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.24
  5     12/27/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.24
  6     04/01/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.24



                                              v
  7    11/29/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    12.92
  8    02/09/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    20.04
  9    04/17/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    23.88
 10    12/28/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    68.94
 11    06/27/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    96.32
 12    12/19/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   109.11
 13    06/24/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   131.11
 14    12/23/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   148.83
 15    06/30/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   161.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

April 25th 2002 Earthquake: An earthquake measuring 4.8 on the Richter scale struck
significant parts of Dinawar and small areas of Humeh counties of Sahneh Township in
Kermanshah province on April 25, 2002 which resulted in one recorded death and some injuries.
The damage to the property was estimated around US$45 million.

June 22nd 2002 Earthquake: Another earthquake measuring 6.2 on the Richter scale struck three
provinces of Qazvin, Zanjan, and Hamedan on June 22, 2002, resulting in 232 deaths, 1,466
injuries and more than 40,727 damaged houses. The Government of Iran (GOI) estimated the
value of the damage to be around US$257 million for the destroyed buildings, household
properties, commercial equipment, damaged social and public infrastructure, agriculture
production assets, and lost livestock. The above estimate did not take into account the losses in
wages, production and sales, and actual cost of the relief effort and financial compensation. The
data issued by the government suggested that the greatest impact of the earthquakes was on the
region's housing and social infrastructure such as schools, health centers, hospitals and
cultural/historical buildings. Most of the population affected by the disaster was low-income
groups living in mud-brick houses with limited means and know-how to build earthquake-
resistant structures.

In Qazvin province, around 3,000 commercial outlets, chicken farms, animal husbandry, small
manufacturing units as well as a number of health and educational facilities were damaged as a
result of the earthquake. Several public buildings including agricultural service centers, libraries,
bathhouses, sports centers, places of worship, and public storage houses were also badly
damaged. The earthquake also caused serious damage to historical sites and the power and water
systems.

In Hamadan province, a total of 78 schools, 94 health centers and 88 bathhouses as well as a few
places of worship and cultural centers were damaged. Heavy damages were also inflicted on the
power, water and telecommunications system. Damage to the productive sector was heavy. A
number of chicken farms, animal husbandry units, small-scale industries and handicraft
workshops were completely damaged. A relatively large number of animal feed storage houses
were also destroyed.

In Zanjan province, the telecommunication system, 29 educational facilities, 13 health centers
and 15 hydrological systems were damaged. A large number of animal shelters and storage
houses for animal feed were also severely completely destroyed.

In Kermanshah province, a total of 35 educational units were completely destroyed and another
43 partially damaged. Twenty health centers were also completely destroyed while 15 required
repairs. The earthquake also damaged public infrastructure such as bridges, public buildings, and
agriculture and animal husbandry units.

Response by the Government after the Earthquakes: The government formulated a two-stage
strategy for responding to the two earthquakes. The first stage involved rescue and relief
operations while the second involved rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts in the four affected
provinces. The first stage was mobilized immediately after the first earthquake struck. The
Ministry of Interior and the Islamic Red Crescent Society took the lead in relief operations and

                                                 1
provided stockpiles of tents and emergency supplies. All levels of the government were mobilized
within few hours to deal with the disaster including emergency services in adjacent provinces
focusing primarily on providing shelters to the inhabitants of the affected areas. Potable water
and basic sanitation facilities were provided as were food supplies and clothing. Priorities under
the second stage included restoration of basic social and public infrastructure such as schools and
health centers, potable water, sanitation, electricity, and telecommunications and the provision of
economic opportunities to the affected population.

Rationale for World Bank's Involvement: While financing of the reconstruction program relied
primarily on the government's (GOI) own funds, which by that time had reached around US$40
million, in parallel, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank)
was requested by the GOI to provide emergency assistance valued at US$180 million and to
apply its global post-disaster emergency reconstruction experience, and its strategic approaches to
disaster risk management systems to Iran. To this effect, the World Bank on June 3, 2003,
committed itself to financing the key elements of the government's emergency response strategy
through the Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project (EERP). The Loan Agreement was signed
between the GOI and the World Bank on August 28, 2003 and the loan became effective on
February 23, 2004.

Link with Country Assistance Strategy: The project was developed as an emergency project
upon government's request at which time Iran's April 2001 Interim Assistance Strategy (2001-
2004, Report No. 220050 IRN) contained no reference to disaster mitigation.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
                                                1
The original project development objectives were to assist the GOI in: (i) relieving social and
economic hardships caused by the earthquakes through the reconstruction of damaged public and
private assets in the project area; and (ii) developing an effective monitoring, mitigation and
management system designed to reduce the impact of future earthquakes.
                                                                                        2
The key performance indicators, for each component, as agreed during loan negotiation were:

Component 1: Reconstruction of housing, social and public infrastructure: (i) number of
damaged housing units that have been repaired or reconstructed in accordance with seismic
standards; (ii) number of social and public sub-projects carried out in compliance with the
selection criteria as set by the Management and Planning Organization (MPO); and (iii) number
sub-projects repaired and reconstructed in compliance with the seismic standards.

Component 2: Economic recovery: (i) number of sector sub-projects carried out in compliance
with the sector selection criteria as described in the MPO.

Component 3: Capacity building and project management: (i) completion and submission to the
World Bank a report detailing past national and local emergency response experiences; and (ii)
launching of a public campaign on disaster preparedness including the production of appropriate
short-films and booklets, and the carrying out of educational sessions.

Component 4: Disaster insurance preparation: (i) formulation of a comprehensive proposal for
the establishment of a local disaster insurance program; (ii) carrying-out of a program to train

1
    The project was expected to be implemented over three- year period.
2
    Schedule 7, Loan Agreement Document No. 4697-IRN, dated August 28, 2003.

                                                    2
local government staff on the enforcement of building codes; and (iii) the preparation of a draft
legislation on natural disaster insurance and completion of a consultation process with the
relevant stakeholders.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4        Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project were the people living in the affected areas of the four
provinces i.e. Qazvin, Zanjan, Hamedan and Kermanshah. The project's direct beneficiaries
included home owners whose properties were destroyed by the earthquake; road users;
communities that were able to improve their disaster preparedness capacity; and the government
staff in the four earthquake affected provinces. There were also several indirect beneficiaries
such as skilled and un-skilled workers who acquired on-the job construction skills and the local
builders who benefited through learning improved building standards and techniques. The
provision of construction component also benefited small and medium consulting and
construction firms that created local jobs.

1.5        Original Components (as approved)

The project development objectives were expected to be met through four components as
described below:

Component A: reconstruction of housing, social and public infrastructure (estimated cost at
appraisal: US$137.52 million; actual cost US$156.55 million3). The component constituted
around 77% of the total project cost.

Sub-component A1: housing repair and reconstruction, and purchase of mechanical equipment
(total amount disbursed US$58.41 million). This sub-component financed the procurement of
building material such as steel and cement, as well as mechanical construction equipment such as
bulldozers, tractors, double dump trucks, loaders, backhoe shovels, etc.).

Sub-component A2: reconstruction of social infrastructure (total amount disbursed:
US$32.53million). This sub-component financed reconstruction of damaged social infrastructure
such as schools, health clinics and local fire station.

Sub-component A3: public infrastructure (total amount disbursed: US$65.61 million). This
component financed reconstruction of public infrastructure such as water and drainage networks,
telephone, power, road and electric systems.

Component B: Economic Recovery (estimated cost US$26.90 million; actual amount disbursed:
US$13.02 million). This component financed investments in the earthquake-affected provinces
that were expected to result in a strong base for local economic development, mainly focusing on




3
    Actual amount financed/disbursed under the loan.

                                                       3
agricultural and infrastructure services selected on the basis of well defined eligibility criteria4.
The component constituted around 15% of total project cost.

Component C: Capacity Building and Project Management (estimated cost US$12.94
million; actual amount disbursed: US$5.34 million). This component financed: (i) disaster
management capacity building activities at local and national levels; and (ii) project management
activities such as staffing, equipment and consulting services (feasibility studies, design works
consultancies, assistance in developing tender documents, and construction supervision
activities). The component constituted around 7% of the total project cost.

Component D: Disaster Insurance Preparation (estimated cost US$2.64 million; actual
amount disbursed is zero because the component was dropped from the World Bank financing at
the request of GOI). This component was expected to finance initial feasibility work to establish
system, a legal framework, and training Iranian service providers. The component constituted
around 1% of the total project cost.

Project Costs: At appraisal, the total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at
US$225 million of which US$45 million was to be financed by the GOI. Details are as follows:

                                                                     Project Cost Bank Financed
Component                                                            (US$ million) (US$ million)
Component-A: Reconstruction of Housing, Social and
Public Infrastructure                                                    171.90              137.52
Component-B: Economic Recovery for Vulnerability Reduction                33.63               26.90
Component-C: Capacity Building & Project Management                       16.17               12.94
Component-D: Disaster Insurance Preparation                                3.30                2.64
                                      Total Project Cost                 225.00              180.00

1.6     Revised Components

The project components were not formally revised however the scope of work was slightly
modified under component `A' i.e.: (i) to offset the rising5price of steel, the activity related to the
procurement of cement (US$5.97 million) was cancelled and the funds utilized to procure high
priced steel; and (ii) due to emerging needs, the activity related to the procurement of `sand and
gravel stations' (US$1.32 million) was cancelled and funds were utilized to procure additional
dump trucks under the same category (goods). These modifications (in Component A) did not
warrant any change in the PDO, results indicators, or the loan agreement.

In addition, there were changes requested by the government with regard to Component D and the
reallocation of funds between categories. Component D was not formally cancelled but dropped
from World Bank financing as the government undertook financing of the Disaster Insurance
Preparation itself. The Component was quite small as a percentage of the project and did not
affect the PDO.

Lastly, there was a government's request to reallocate funds from Category 1A (civil works) to
Category 2A (goods). While there was no formal reallocation made, an "over disbursement" was

4
  (i) Studies acceptable to the Bank meeting sectoral standards; (ii) satisfactory completion of the
environmental screening process; (iii) an identified source of counterpart funds to undertake operation and
maintenance activities; and (iv) prior approval of Management and Planning Organization obtained.
5
  Cement was supplied by the Housing Foundation from its own strategic stockpile.

                                                    4
authorized by the Task Team Leader at that time. This change also did not affect the achievement
of the PDO.

1.7        Other Significant Changes

Cancellation of component: The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance requested the World
Bank, in a letter dated May 14, 2005, cancellation of Component D (disaster insurance
preparation) in the amount of US$3.3 million and reallocation of proceeds to un-allocated
category. During the Mid Term Review in July 2005, the Bank team concurred with this request
and agreed to start the process of cancellation and reallocation. However this request was never
followed through because of Bank's supervision team's oversight. The legal agreement was also
never amended. The activity nevertheless remains government's top priority and is presently
being implemented using funds from the Iranian Catastrophe Insurance Pool by the `Central
Insurance Company of Iran'.

Reallocation of funds between categories: The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
requested the World Bank, in a letter dated August 18, 2007, reallocation of funds between
various categories including increase in Goods category from US$55 million to US$72 million.
The Bank supervision team agreed with the proposal but overlooked following through the formal
reallocation procedure. The Loan agreement was not amended. The disbursement on the
reallocated amount was nevertheless done based on an `over-draft' authorized by the Bank team
which was to be followed by a formal project restructuring process but was overlooked.

Extension of effectiveness date: The two dated covenants (opening of the special account and the
installation of financial management system) could not be complied with on time and therefore,
the original project effectiveness date was extended from December 29, 2003 to March 31, 2004.
The project became effective on February 23, 2004 once these conditions were met satisfactorily.

Extension of project closing date: The project closing date was changed twice to take advantage
of the built momentum and to complete some unfinished activities. The first closing date was
changed from the original June 30, 2007 to December 31, 2008 (18 months extension); while the
second extension was provided from December 31, 2008 to June 30, 2009 (six months extension).
The loan agreement was changed accordingly.

Change in the special account currency: The US financial sanctions on Iran in 2007, where funds
denominated in US Dollars were unable to be transferred to the special account, necessitated the
amendment of the loan agreement.6 The loan amendment provided the government flexibility to
open and maintain special deposit accounts in Euros.

2.         Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1        Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
                                                              7
Quality at Entry was formally assessed through the QAE6 process by the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). The panel rated the overall quality at entry as `Satisfactory' and highlighted
borrower's ownership as one of the strongest points of this operation. The panel also highlighted
large number of agencies involved in this operation were well identified and the Ministry of
Interior capable of leading a multi-agency group to coordinate work under this project.

6
    June 15, 2007, Schedule 6, Section 2.02.
7
    Sixth Quality at Entry Assessment, dated July, 2, 200.

                                                        5
Project Design: Soon after effectiveness, it became apparent that the scope and nature of the
project was too diverse which made it difficult to supervise. The project included a broad range
of sectors and activities such as telecommunications, water and sanitation, housing, health,
education, power and roads, requiring a large number of implementing agencies both at the
national and the provincial levels which utilized different approaches to implement their
respective activities. The two main implementing entities, the Project Management Unit (PMU)
and the Contract Management Unit (CMU) were forced to coordinate with 14 other provincial
                                                               8
implementing agencies which covered a wide geographical area making it a total of 52 agencies
with un-even capacities.

Use of ERL: The Government of Iran's request for the project was during a period of
overwhelming need given that two major earthquakes occurred within a short period of time.
However, the intervention could have been more effective had there been two separate stand
alone interventions, first dealing with the emergency nature of the earthquakes (i.e. supplying
cement and steel for reconstruction) while a follow-up dealing with the disaster preparedness
aspects.

Project Conditionalities: The project had two dated covenants and one effectiveness condition
(signing of the contract between the Housing Foundation (HF) and the Ministry of Interior
(MoI)). As mentioned above, the effectiveness date had to be postponed because two of the three
dated covenants were not complied with.

Project at Risk Status: The Bank's project preparation teams adequately highlighted main risks to
the reconstruction activities both at the center (Tehran) as well as at the four provinces i.e. lack of
capacity of the executing agencies, flow of counterpart funds, adequacy of Financial Management
staff, and limited experience in implementing large geographical area reconstruction program.
The project adequately put in place satisfactory mitigation measures to counter the risks.

2.2       Implementation

Factors causing implementation delays: Even though almost 100% of the funds were fully
disbursed, there were nevertheless, several factors outside the control of the government that
affected the smooth implementation of the project, for example: (i) The US financial sanctions
on Iran led the special accounts, denominated in US Dollars, to be switched to Euros resulting
in disbursement delays and loss of momentum; (ii) multiple UN sanctions which discouraged
potential international bidders to bid in Iran limited the pool of competitive bidders causing
further delays and increase in project costs (because of risk premium); (iii) quality and timeliness
of many works contracts had to suffer because of heavy reliance on the local firms that were
not familiar with the World Bank's bidding documents and guidelines further delaying
implementation at the beginning of the project; and (iv) in connection with the UN sanctions, the
World Bank put in place an additional level of screening under which goods and equipment
specifications were reviewed against the list of prohibited items and entities identified in the UN
Resolutions, causing some additional delays when the new process was introduced;

Establishment of the Contract Management Unit (CMU): A new unit was established under the
project to implement component A (reconstruction of housing, social and public infrastructure)
and component B (economic recovery for vulnerability reduction). With the support of the
procurement consultants and advisors, familiar with the World Bank's procurement guidelines,


8
    Four provinces of Qazvin, Zanjan, Hamedan and Kermanshah.

                                                  6
the CMU played a central role in the procurement of goods and services and in preparing bidding
documents in line with the World Bank guidelines.

Project Management Unit (PMU): Under the Ministry of Interior, the PMU was established and
made responsible to carry out day-to-day project activities and also serving as the focal point for
all the provincial implementing agencies. With adequate staffing in place, the PMU was
responsible to implement component C (capacity building technical studies and training) and
component D (disaster insurance preparation) and reported to the National Committee for
                                                    9
Reduction of Natural Disasters' Impact (NCRNDI) which was specifically established to serve
as a project steering committee and to oversee supervision and coordination of disaster
management and post disaster activities in the country.

Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR): The CPPR was carried out May 7th through
May 9th, 200510 during which the following issues were highlighted and specific time-bound
actions agreed upon: (i) to attract larger pool of steel suppliers, the bidding documents were to be
revised allowing insertion of price adjustments formula and revising the bidders' post-
qualification criteria; (ii) to mitigate future delays, project simplification measures were to be
adopted, in particular, cancelling the non-performing or potentially time-consuming packages
from the procurement plan and instructing provinces to avoid submitting complex sub-projects;
and (iii) payment procedures were to be decentralized by opening provincial sub-accounts to
facilitate contractors' payments.

Mid Term Review: Building upon the initial overall assessment carried out during the CPPR, the
MTR was carried out jointly with the PMU and the CMU during May 4th to May 17th 2005 and
then July 9th to July 12th, 2005. The main objectives of the MTR were to assess the project's
original development objectives against the implementation status to date and examine factors
that could be affecting achievement of the project's overall goals. The key agreements reached
during the MTR were: (i) cancellation of the slow moving component D (disaster insurance
scheme) thus reducing the number of counterpart agencies and allowing more focus on other
priority activities; and (ii) simplification of implementation processes by re-packaging sub-
projects of similar nature under each component, for each province, as a result the total number of
sub-projects for the second year of implementation was reduced drastically from the original 187
to a consolidated 64.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PMU was unable to establish an adequate M&E system to measure performance of the
diverse set of sub-projects during its entire life. Although the World Bank's supervision teams as
                         11
well as its management highlighted the need of defining a simple M&E system but this was
never followed through. At project closing the beneficiary assessment was carried out, although
the data presented in the assessment could not be independently verified due to travel restrictions
following the civil unrest in June 2009. The World Bank's supervision teams also occasionally
carried out informal assessments on and ad-hoc basis but limited the assessment to project
outputs, rather than actual outcomes, and only presented data through anecdotal evidence. After
repeated requests from the World Bank, the PMU committed itself to recruiting an M&E

9
  NCRNDI was chaired by the MoI and its membership included the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Finance; Management and Planning Organization; Iranian Red Crescent Society; most sectoral ministries
(roads, telecom., water, roads, health, education); and a number of research institutes.
10
   In Kish Island.
11
   Archived Implementation Status Report #7, dated Nov. 29, 2005.

                                                  7
specialist but the specialist was never engaged. At the time of project closing, it was not known
clearly how much of Bank's support towards cement and steel actually reached the intended
beneficiaries.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguard:

Most of the sub-projects were of category `C' nature with the exception of safe water and
sanitation facilities and some road rehabilitation sub-projects that fell under category `B'
requiring preparation of the Environmental Management Plan under OP 04.01. However, being
an emergency operation, processed under OP08.50, no formal environmental assessment (EA) or
consultations were undertaken. Only a limited EA was carried out for the sub-projects that had
potential for adverse impact. The Social and Environmental Screening and Assessment
Framework (SESAF), including mitigation and monitoring plan, were adequately drafted and
discussed during project negotiations. The SESAF was compiled in the Technical Annex and
made publicly available in the country (translated into Farsi), and delivered officially to the
World Bank prior to the Board presentation. During implementation, all the sub-projects were
screened to ensure that environmental risks were adequately addressed through the application of
standardized guidelines provided in the SESAF.

Social Safeguards:

Given the comprehensive nature of the emergency reconstruction program, the project documents
highlighted the possibility of triggering two safeguard policies i.e.: Cultural Property (OPN.
11.03); and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), neither of which got triggered. A senior
social specialist in the PMU as well as from the World Bank regularly monitored all safeguard
aspects of the projects.

Cultural Property (OPN. 11.03): The project financed works related to some historic buildings
sites and exercised extreme caution not to disturb any cultural sites. The SESAF clearly included
guidelines for civil works contracts to guide contractors in the event they came upon culturally
significant items during the reconstruction.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12): The project did not directly engage in the physical
reconstruction efforts but financed the provision of equipment and construction material for the
reconstruction of housing, social and public infrastructure, and therefore, OP/BP 4.12 did not get
triggered.

Indigenous People (OP 4.20): This clause did not apply because the persons affected by the
project were neither vulnerable ethnic minority nor scheduled as tribal people within the
provision of Iranian law.

Financial Management and Disbursement:

The Financial Management (FM) was carried out in accordance with the project's design and the
loan agreement. Overall the FM arrangements were considered adequately capable of generating
the required quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs). The accounting unit, within the
PMU, continued to be staffed with a financial officer and an accountant who reconciled project
special account (SA) on a monthly basis and generated quarterly progress reports. These reports
were regularly verified and approved by the World Bank's FMS. There was also clear

                                                8
segregation of duties between the functions of initiation, authorization, disbursement, and
recording financial transactions. The SA was reconciled periodically and the Withdrawal
Applications were issued in a timely manner.

Even though the FM system was considered satisfactory, the project nevertheless faced some
initial difficulties when the US financial sanctions were imposed on Iran. For example, the GOI's
directive prohibiting the deposit of US Dollars into the SA, and of switching the project currency
from US Dollar to Euros, resulted in conversion difficulties causing delays in producing timely
FM reports. The implementing agencies' limited capacity in inventory management systems also
impeded the project progress. Despite this, the accounting unit, with the assistance from the
World Bank's FMS, successfully addressed these issues and kept the accounting system running
smoothly. The World Bank's FM Specialists participated in all the supervision missions after the
project became effective.

Audit Arrangements: The project's audit arrangements remained satisfactory. Formal audits of
the project were carried out on an annual basis in accordance with the International Standards on
Auditing. The results repeatedly confirmed the adequacy of accounting system and the internal
controls and the reliability of the statements of expenditure as the basis of loan disbursements and
compliance with the legal covenants. The audit report at project closing includes US$1 million
which could not be reconciled from the project accounts. As of writing this ICR report, this issue
is still pending.

Procurement:

To handle procurement activities, the Ministry of Interior had contracted the Housing Foundation
to establish a Contract Management Unit (CMU) that was responsible for contract management
activities related to the procurement of works, goods and service contracts according to the World
Bank guideline. The CMU assisted the PMU in the preparation of bidding documents for civil
works, goods and selection of engineering consultant services, as well as verifying the progress of
contractors' work and certifying needed payments. The PMU remained the responsible entity for
exercising the overall control of procurement, signing contracts and executing payments.

The location of the PMU, CMU, and the Financial Controller's office being in three different
places was a major problem from the very beginning. The PMU and the CMU were located in
different offices in different parts of the city which limited their contacts to telephones and
irregular meetings preventing the two entities from functioning as one team. While the CMU
handled the procurement issues of civil works and goods in a satisfactory manner, the PMU was
left to handle its own selection of consultants for components C and D. The high turnover of
specialized staff in the PMU and lack of procurement capacity prevented them from having a
satisfactory performance in this regards.

Another issue that added to the problems was not having a Financial Controller totally dedicated
to the project. The Financial Controller was located in the Ministry of Interior, at a different
location from the PMU which added to the communication problems. Half way through the
project implementation, the PMU Financial Officer's office was moved from the location of
PMU, to the office of Financial Controller. Even though this had the benefit of the Financial
Officer being closer to the Financial Controller, the close contact with the rest of the PMU staff,
and the Procurement Team at CMU, was always amiss.




                                                 9
Managing several small packages scattered all over towns and villages of the four provinces was
problematic, however, to this end the project team should be commended for successfully
procuring 280 Works packages scattered in the three provinces.

Problems with Procurement of Goods: The process of Letter of Credit opening proved to be a
cumbersome process in the context of the banking sector in Iran which became even more
difficult as a result of some banks stopping to work with their local counterparts, as the result of
various sanctions. However, the problems were resolved eventually with extra efforts made by
CMU and PMU, when eventually most of the items were successfully procured. The only item
not procured as the result of the technical specifications matching the prohibited list under the UN
sanctions was the `shaking table' estimated at US$ 2.1 million. Generally speaking the
procurement performance may be rated as Moderately Satisfactory with CMU's performance
being Satisfactory whiles the PMU's performance being Moderately Satisfactory.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

All the activities envisaged under the project were carried out successfully, with the exception of
those that got cancelled at the government's request (component D - disaster insurance
preparation). Essentially the cancelled activities comprised of only four studies, constituting
around 1.4% of the total project cost (US$2.64) i.e.: (i) risk management and flood exposures
study; (ii) comparative analysis of international disaster insurance models and the development of
an appropriate natural disasters insurance model for Iran; (iii) preparation of operational
guidelines, rating guidelines and policy terms and conditions; and (iv) building
surveys/geographic information system and data bases. At project closing, the Bimeh Markazi
Iran (the Central Insurance of Iran) had agreed to carry-out these unfinished studies using
government's own funds.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

With two major seismic belts, Iran is known to be among the most earthquake prone countries in
the world. Because of its high exposure to natural calamities, the country pays serious attention
to emergency response and disaster management and has considerably improved its preparedness
under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, the project components are
relevant to the project's main objective of relieving social and economic hardship of the
communities affected by the earthquake. The main objective is also squarely aligned with the
government's own priorities of providing permanent shelters to the inhabitants with severely
damaged houses throughout the country.

Link with Country Assistance Strategy: The project was developed as an emergency project upon
government's request at which time Iran's April 2001 Interim Assistance Strategy (2001-2004,
Report No. 220050 IRN) contained little reference to disaster mitigation.

Implementation Completion Report (ICR):. Since there had been no supervision mission since
May 2008 and no ICR mission was authorized due to travel restrictions put in place following the
June 2009 civil unrest, the ICR team had to rely on Bank documentation with little or no input
from the Borrower (the PMU team had largely disbanded). This situation has resulted in the need
to reconstruct events related to changes in the project using available documentation and in

                                                10
consultation with project team members and CMU staff. As a result, there have been limited
opportunities for clarification and input from the Borrower's side and possibly less accuracy in
the ICR than desired.

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the PDO is rated moderately satisfactory as the project successfully
contributed towards relieving social and economic hardships of the people affected by the 2002
earthquakes. This was confirmed during the recent survey12 in which the beneficiaries expressed
satisfaction with the reconstruction efforts and the improved social and public services received.
The project was successful in rebuilding damaged public and private assets and designing
effective monitoring, mitigation and management system which is expected to reduce the impact
of future earthquakes. Following are the activities that contributed to the achievement of the
PDOs under each component:

Component A: Reconstruction of housing, social and public infrastructure: This component
provided mechanical equipment13, steel and cement to the affected provinces to help reconstruct
24,200 damaged housing units,14 city hospitals, local schools, emergency medical centers,
drinking water networks and a fire station building under social infrastructure sub-component.
Under the public infrastructure sub-component, the component financed restoring the
telecommunication services by installing telecommunication networks and procurement fiber
optic cables and switches. The component helped reconstruct both, the on-going and the new
sewerage treatment plants and restored the power supply to the affected areas by constructing
distribution transmission networks. Under the road sector, the component financed asphalting
and strengthening of key roads and bridges that were severely damaged by the frequent
movement of heavy relief and rescue machinery. Another main achievement of this component
was the repair of around 64 km of roads in Zanjan province. All the new construction under this
component was in compliance with the seismic standards which significantly improved access to,
and quality of, public and social services. The overall development objective achieved under this
component is rated as Satisfactory.

Component B: Economy recovery for vulnerability reduction: To support economic recovery in
the affected provinces, this component focused on the agricultural services and infrastructure and
helped replace damaged economic assets thereby strengthening the bases for the local economic
development. This component financed a diverse group of subprojects ranging from the rural
irrigation networks to livestock production, to cold storage facilities. It is worth highlighting here
that the agricultural initiatives undertaken in the Qazvin province, for example, had a very
positive impact on rural households, according to the latest beneficiary survey, as these sub-
projects were concentrated in areas which usually did not attract major public funding due to their
small population size and remoteness. The overall development objective achieved under this
component is rated as Satisfactory.

Component C: Capacity building (A) Disaster Management and (B) Project Management: (A)
regarding disaster management capacity building, various initiatives were financed, for example,
a model public awareness program15 was designed and launched which has significantly
enhanced the national and local level awareness of preventive measures minimizing the risks

12
   Prepared in March 2010, by Dr, Pooya Alaedini.
13
   Wheel loaders, double cabin vans and dump trucks.
14
   Against appraisal estimate of 29,232.
15
   Which included production of short-films, booklets and educational sessions for the public.

                                                    11
from future natural disasters. This fact was confirmed during the beneficiary assessment surveys
conducted in March 2010; around 200 key government staff (mostly engineers) were trained
across four provinces on the enforcement of seismic building codes; a report was completed that
dealt with the local disaster assessment mechanism and implementation strategy on emergency
response situations; pilot studies were carried out to analyze and test the earthquake resistant
construction technologies; and finally, a policy was formulated16 on the necessary institutional
government interventions which is expected to reduce catastrophic losses from any future natural
disasters. This sub-component also contributed to the passage of a national law that
institutionalized the National Disaster Management Taskforce in the country.

(b) Regarding the capacity building activities for the project management sub-component,
staffing and equipment was provided to the PMU; implementation fee was financed for the
Housing Foundation to manage components A and B; consulting services were financed that
helped prepare the feasibility studies, tender documents and the supervision of construction
activities; and finally project's annual external audit were financed under this sub-component.
The overall development objective achieved under this component is rated as Satisfactory.

Component D: Disaster Insurance Preparedness: This component (constituting only 1.4% of the
total project cost, around US$2.64 million) was dropped from the World Bank financing at the
government's request. The activities, essentially four studies, are presently underway using funds
from the Iranian Catastrophe Insurance Pool and are being implemented by the `Central Insurance
Company of Iran'. The overall development objective achieved under this component is rated as
Unsatisfactory.

3.3        Efficiency

As an emergency operation (processed under OP08.50), economic and financial analysis was not
required and therefore not done at Appraisal.

3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall project outcome is considered moderately satisfactory on the basis of high relevance
of the project, the level of achievement of the PDOs, and the general satisfaction of the public as
revealed during the beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops conducted during March
2010. The effectiveness of outcome was also satisfactory as around 24,200 housing units
reconstructed were in full compliance with the seismic standards; a well received public
campaign on disaster preparedness was launched successfully; and the government staff,
engineers, masons, and the local builders were trained on seismic building codes that are now
fully enforced in the affected provinces. The Disaster Insurance Preparedness activities under
component D (constituting 1% of the total project cost - essentially four studies) were cancelled
hence the overall outcome is considered moderately satisfactory.

3.5        Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)        Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



16
     With the help of a team of international experts.

                                                         12
The project was not a poverty targeted intervention even though most of the people affected were
of low-income groups who lived in the mud-brick houses with limited means and know-how to
build earthquake-resistant structures, according to the damage assessment report17prepared by the
government during project appraisal. The World Bank's mobilization of assistance allowed these
poor households to resume their livelihoods and protect them from falling further into poverty.
The beneficiary assessment report, of March 2010, specifically prepared by a local consultant for
the purposes of this ICR, highlighted that the reconstruction process was carried out to the
satisfaction of the vast majority of households and which resulted in assisting the general
population with improved access to housing, drinking water, transport services, educational
facilities, emergency response facilities, and the health services at a higher quality standards.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project's institutional development impact is rated satisfactory as evidenced by the
establishment of the PMU and the CMU that are now capable of dealing with complex
procurement issues according to the World Bank guidelines. The project financed around
US$5.34 million to strengthen various government departments and introduced new construction
techniques and seismic building codes for the local engineers. The technicians are now fully
capable of evaluating risks and vulnerability of buildings and testing adequacy of earthquake
resistant construction. The government departments are also well prepared because of training
received on earthquake preparedness and mitigation. With the capacity building training, the
PMU and the CMU are now capable of managing and monitoring implementation progress of any
future project.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Based on the beneficiary survey carried out at project closure, an unintended benefit that stood
out was the employment opportunities the project was able to generate while being implemented
in the four affected provinces. The data however cannot be independently verified by the ICR
author because of travel restrictions.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A beneficiary survey was conducted18in February and March of 2010, aiming at identifying
extent to which the citizens of the four affected provinces benefitted from the reconstruction
efforts and their level of satisfaction. The survey looked for visible signs of economic recovery
because of project's intervention, and the extent to which the disaster management capacity was
improved both at the national as well as the local level.



According to the survey, the direct beneficiaries interviewed agreed that overall, the project had a
very positive impact on their lives and/or their activities as it successfully provided housing,
drinking water, transport services, educational facilities, emergency response facilities, and health
services for the local communities at higher quality standards. The beneficiary satisfaction was
noted as highest for activities that were implemented by the line agencies with relatively better
capacities.

17
   The report was prepared by the government with information collected from the Governor-General
Offices of Zanjan, Qazvin, Hamaden, and Kermanshah provinces as well as the MOI; July 2002.
18
   By a local consultant, Dr. Pooya Alaedini.

                                                  13
Disaster preparedness intervention was noticeably improved which manifested into higher
institutional capacity, safer housing, schools, hospitals, emergency response centers, and having
available critical equipment for disaster relief centers. The survey highlighted enhanced
agricultural activities and related services in some rural areas, in addition to the improved
capacity to implement projects at higher quality standards vis--vis management capacity,
engineering, construction standards, and/or supervision. The line agencies were also sensitized to
the social and environmental safeguards standards followed by the World Bank. The detailed
findings of the beneficiary survey are presented in Annex 5.

4.         Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The possibility that changes may occur which may be detrimental to the ultimate achievement of
project's outcome is considered Moderate. At present there is sufficient political commitment by
the government and the Housing Foundation in scaling up successful endeavors. The government
has fully bought into the idea of continuing with additional infrastructure rehabilitation and
expanding new service delivery system into other areas which were not covered under the project.
The Housing Foundation has shown great interest in continuing this trend and has signaled its
willingness to request for more funds to facilitate Disaster Insurance Preparation activities for
which the government is presently negotiating with other lenders to secure financing.

5.         Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1        Bank Performance

(a)        Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank moved quickly to carry out the damage/need assessment exercise providing sound
grounds to prepare the project. The Bank's preparation missions were adequately staffed with
needed specialists to support design of the project. The Project was prepared in a collaborative
manner with the government's Task Force including all the line ministries, special agencies and
the representatives of the four affected provincial governments. The draft project operational
manual was also prepared during project design phase. However, as mentioned earlier, the
Quality at Entry was not reviewed through the QAE process by the Quality Assurance Group
neither was an Ad-hoc committee established, as is customary for emergency projects of this size
and scope. The project was considered overly complex as it consisted of more than 400 sub-
projects across several sectors with over fifty implementing line agencies covering a wide
geographical area. The PMU was consequently forced to rely on sub-project designs and
justifications that were provided by different line agencies with uneven capacities.

The Bank's project preparation team was unable to establish an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system which could manage diverse set of sub-projects. The Technical Annex, it
seems, was prepared in haste as project objectives were not mentioned anywhere in the document
                                                                                         19
(mentioned only in the loan agreement). The project also had one effectiveness condition and

19
     Signing of contract between the Housing Foundation and the Ministry of Interior.

                                                      14
                         20
three dated covenants. The effectiveness date had to be postponed because two of the three
dated covenants were not complied with in a timely manner.

(b)      Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The quality of Bank supervision is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The supervision teams
worked extensively with the four Governorates during the first two years of implementation to
build a solid pipeline of sub-projects, continued their hands-on approach and remained close to
the clients even during challenging country environment. Additionally, regular supervision
missions were maintained with a continuous dialogue with the clients despite the changing
leadership within the ministries and the governorates21. This partnership was essential in
maintaining effective coordination with other partners (donors, NGOs) who looked for Bank's
advice and direction.

During later years and after several TTL transitions, the quality of project supervision was
uneven. For example, the Bank received an official request from the government, dated May 14,
2005, to cancel Component D. This request was never followed through and the component was
not formally cancelled because of an oversight by the Bank. The funds were not formally
reallocated nor the loan agreement amended. As a general practice, in the absence of loan
agreement amendment, a `Re-allocation Notice' is transmitted to the government but this too was
overlooked.

Similarly, no action was taken after the Bank received a second request from the government,
dated August 18, 2007 to reallocate funds among different categories, including increase in
Goods category from US$55 million to US$72 million. The Bank team did not follow regular
Bank procedures but allowed reallocation by way of authorizing an `over draft' and informed the
management that this would be followed through by a formal project restructuring during the
follow up mission. This was not carried out as planned.

Finally, during the MNA PAD review of discrepancies between PAD/Technical Annexes and
Legal Agreements, the task team reported to management that all inconsistencies were corrected,
Legal Agreement amended and no further action required. Upon reviewing the documents it was
found that the Legal Agreement was not amended.

Procurement: The HF and the PMU were trained to follow the World Bank's procurement rules
for National Shopping, however such rules proved to be somewhat over-demanding in the local
context, where suppliers of building materials and qualified contractors were not always readily
available in large numbers and in proximity of the affected villages. Also the characteristics of
the local markets were such that the suppliers were not willing and not used to providing
quotations valid for 30 days because of large price fluctuations in the market. The suppliers
could only provide quotations valid for one day and blocked it if funds were not provided in
advance. Considering these ground realities, it may have been more effective if the World Bank
teams had invested greater amount of time and energy to hand hold communities and provided
due diligence guidance on real time basis to prevent time and cost over-runs. However, with the

20
   (i) Recruitment of two financial management (fm) specialists; (ii) installation of fm systems/accounting
software; and (iii) opening of special account.
21
   The Minister of Interior and the Governors of Qazvin and Zanjan were changed while the Managing
Director of HF was changed once during the course of project implementation.

                                                     15
sheer vastness of the program (across four provinces) and the logistical constraints, this may be
seen only in the hindsight and may be a lesson to be kept in mind while preparing future projects
with such programs involving communities with limited capacities and support from the
governments.

Financial Management: The Financial Management supervision remained somewhat
challenging at the village levels. The World Bank accredited financial management specialists
were part of every single supervision mission and had hands-on approach to resolving issues.
During supervision missions, the FM team conducted intensive field visits and reviewed FM
arrangements, identified issues and discussed, with the PMU, the mitigation measures. Only
occasionally did the project observed delays in receiving financial monitoring reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall rating of Bank's performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory  being
moderately satisfactory at entry and Moderately Unsatisfactory during supervision. It is worth
noting, that the World Bank's support throughout the project's life was widely acknowledged by
stake holders as having made significant contributions to achieving the project's main
development objective of relieving social and economic hardships caused by the earthquakes
which ultimately helped restore the living conditions of the affected population.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. During project design, the
Housing Foundation and the government's inter-ministerial committee members (National
Committee for the Reduction of Impact of Natural Disasters, in particular) worked closely with
the Bank's preparation team and provided the necessary support in designing and setting up
project priorities. Because of good dialogue maintained, the project always enjoyed the support
from government which reiterated their top priorities matching perfectly those with the
development objectives of the project and reaffirmed support in carrying out project activities in
the four provinces. The government however was too slow in meeting the dated covenants which
delayed progress effectiveness by three months.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Contract Management Unit (CMU) and the Project Management Unit is
considered satisfactory. Both units proactively took positive actions to terminate contracts with
the non-performing contractors and transferring implementation responsibility for the completion
of such works to the provincial implementing agencies. The PMU also streamlined administrative
procedures (within the Ministry of Interior) to process invoices to speed up payments which
ultimately helped achieve the overall disbursement of US$175 million (97% of the total project




                                               16
amount).     When faced with key bottlenecks in the procurement process22 both the units
committed to a series of actions to mitigate shortcomings by following up with local agencies and
exploring with the Financial Controller to apply to the contracts, the directive of a letter by MOP
which allowed the use of a "provisory note" to replaced the commercial bank guarantee to release
advance payments for small works. To effectively facilitate project coordination effort, the PMU
also appointed full time capacity building officer and a liaison officer in the National Disaster
Task Force, positions that were not envisaged earlier.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall the Borrower's performance takes into consideration both the government and the two
implementing agencies' performance during project preparation as well as implementation. On
the basis provided above, the Borrower's overall performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
At the time of project closing, the Borrower had complied with all the covenants and agreements
towards achieving development outcomes.

6.        Lessons Learned

     A key recommendation for future project design is to avoid subsuming a broad range of
      objectives and sectors under the umbrella of a single emergency project. It is more effective
      to focus projects on specific sectors and activities that are directly related to the immediate
      reconstruction efforts.

     ERL may not be the most appropriate lending instrument for "softer" or longer term
      interventions such as disaster preparedness and prevention since ERLs are typically designed
      for a three year project implementation period.

     Economic recovery initiatives are best formulated under a separate project with clear and
      measurable employment, income, and empowerment outcome/impact indicators.

     Incompatibilities must be resolved up front in dealing with bidding and contract regulation
      mechanisms in countries where they are different from those of the World Bank.

     Emergency reconstruction projects of this nature should have a monitoring and evaluation
      system in place upfront with mechanism to track core performance indicators.

     Community participation in identifying sub-projects is essential. Many of the EERP
      subprojects were identified and implemented with very limited consideration given to this
      aspect, for example, in some cases subprojects were contrary to local priorities bringing
      public dissatisfaction, conflicts and delay.

     Emergency project should avoid having (effectiveness) conditionalities.



7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

22
  Such as lengthy timeframe for submission of technical specifications by local agencies or difficulty for
small contractors to obtain bank guarantees etc.

                                                     17
(a)   Borrower/implementing agencies
      N/A
(b)   Co-financiers
      N/A
(c)   Other partners and stakeholders
      N/A




                                        18
                        Annex 1        Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component including contingencies (in USD Million equivalent)

                      Components                          Appraisal    Actual    Percentage
                                                          Estimate      Cost    of Appraisal
Reconstruction of Housing, Social & Public infrastructure     137.52     156.55        113.84
Economic Recovery                                              26.90      13.02         48.40
Capacity Building & Project Management                         12.94       5.34         41.27
Disaster Insurance Preparation                                  2.64       0.00          0.00
                                    Total Project Costs       180.00     174.91       -

(b) Financing

                     Source of Funds
                                                         Appraisal     Actual    Percentage
                                                         Estimate       Cost    of Appraisal
Government of Iran                                            45.00       41.00        91.11
The World Bank                                               180.00      174.91        97.17




                                             19
                        Annex 2.        Outputs by Component

Component A: Reconstruction of Housing, Social and Public Infrastructure

Goods & Equipments Procured:
    50, 955 Metric Tons of Steel for HF
    61 Wheel Loaders for the HF
    36 Double Cabin Vans for the HF
    3Double Cabin Vans for Qazvin province
    7 Double Cabin Vans for the Rural Water & Sewage Company of Qazvin province
    280 Dump Trucks for the HF
    Medical Equip. for Medical Science Universities of Qazvin & Hamedan provinces
    Truck Chassis/Water Tanker for Rural Water & Sewage Co. of Qazvin province
    Various Laboratory Equipments for Rural Water and Sewage Company of Qazvin
    Ambulances for University of Medical Sciences of Qazvin & Zanjan provinces

Component B: Economy Recovery for Vulnerability Reduction

Goods & Equipments Procured:
    Radio Network for Natural Resources Institute of Qazvin province
    Fire Extinguishing Equipments for Natural Resources Institute of Qazvin province
    High Pressure Irrigation Equipment for Agricultural Jihad of Zanjin province

Component C: Capacity Building for Disaster Management & Project Management

 Equipments Procured:
    Mobile Radio Systems
    Life Detector Compact Systems
    Geophysical Equipments for Tehran University
    Geophysical Equipments for National Disaster Reduction Institute
    Shaking Table Systems for Amirkabir University

 Studies/Workshops Conducted:
    Public Awareness Seminars conducted to minimize risks from future disasters
    Training provided to 200 engineers on enforcement of building codes
    Report completed on local disaster assessment and emergency response strategy
    Pilot studies completed to test earthquake resistant construction technologies
    Policy framework prepared on government interventions to reduce catastrophic losses from
     natural disasters

Component D: Disaster Insurance Preparedness

Component cancelled at government's request




                                              20
                    Annex 3.        Economic and Financial Analysis

Not carried out due to Emergency Nature of the Project (project exempted)




                                              21
  Annex 4.        Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Supervision Mission October 22, 2003:
Bank Mission Members: Al-Khafaji (Lead Operations Officer/TTL, MNSIF); Kato (Urban
Management Specialist, MNSIF); Motabar (Sr. FM Specialist, MNACS); Rosanna Nitti (Urban
and Disaster Management Specialist, MNSIF); Tahoub (Sr. Procurement Specialist, MNACS);
Dajani (Operations Officer, MNSIF).

Supervision Mission April, 2004:
Bank Mission Members: Al-Khafaji (Lead Operations Officer/TTL, MNSIF); Kato (Urban
Management Specialist, MNSIF); Rosanna Nitti (Urban and Disaster Management Specialist,
MNSIF); Tahoub (Sr. Procurement Specialist, MNACS); Dajani (Operations Officer, MNSIF);
Gurenko (Disaster Insurance, OPD).

Supervision Mission September 30, 2004:
Bank Mission Members: Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL, SASIE); Kato (Urban
Management Specialist, MNSIF); Tahoub (Sr. Procurement Specialist, MNACS); Dajani
(Operations Officer, MNSIF); Pirouz (Mechanical Engineer, consultant, MNSIF).

Supervision Mission December 27, 2004:
Bank Mission Members: Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL, SASIE); Nitti (Urban and
Disaster Management Specialist, MNSIF); Pirouz (Mechanical Engineer, consultant, MNSIF);
Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management Specialist, MNACS); Cittati (Sr. Procurement
Specialist, MNSIF); Hedi Larbi (Sector Manager, MNSIF).

Supervision Mission April 1, 2005:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL);Helen Z. Shahriari (Sr. Social Scientist); Tahoub
(Sr. Procurement Specialist, MNACS); Christianna Johnnides (Urban Specialist); Nitti (Urban
and Disaster Management Specialist, MNSIF); Elena Gagieva-Petrova (Program Assistance);and
Hany Shalaby (ET Consultant, Cairo;)

Supervision Mission November29, 2005:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL); Helen Z. Shahriari (Sr. Social Scientist);Thao Le
Nguyen (Sr. Finance Officer); Hany Shalaby (ET Consultant, Cairo; Robert Bou Jaoude
(Financial Management Specialist, MNACS); Dahlia Lotayef (Sr. Environment Specialist);
Alessandro Palmieri (Lead Dam Specialist)

Supervision Mission February 9, 2006:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL); Helen Z. Shahriari (Sr. Social Scientist); Antonio J.
Cittati (Consultant); Balakrishna Menon (Sr. Urban Specialist); Rosanna Nitti (Sr. Urban
Specialist); Ali Reza Abedini (Consultant)
Supervision Mission April 17, 2006:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL); Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management
Specialist, MNACS; Rosanna Nitti (Sr. Urban Specialist); Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement
Specialist); Ali Reza Abedini (Consultant)

Supervision Mission December 12, 2006:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL); Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management
Specialist, MNACS; Rosanna Nitti (Sr. Urban Specialist); Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement
Specialist); Ali Reza Abedini (Consultant)

                                               22
Supervision Mission April 17, 2006:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL); Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management
Specialist, MNACS; Rosanna Nitti (Sr. Urban Specialist); Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement
Specialist); Ali Reza Abedini (Consultant)

Supervision Mission June 27, 2007:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist//TTL); Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management
Specialist, MNACS; Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement Specialist)

Supervision Mission December 19, 2007:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist); Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management Specialist,
MNACS; Rosanna Nitti (TTL/Sr. Urban Specialist); Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement
Specialist); Velayutham Vijayaveri (Sr. Procurement Specialist); Niels B. Holm-Nielsen (Hazard
Risk Management Specialist);

Supervision Mission June 24, 2008:
Robert Maurer (Lead Urban Specialist); Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management Specialist,
MNACS; Rosanna Nitti (TTL/Sr. Urban Specialist); Velayutham Vijayaveri (Sr. Procurement
Specialist); Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement Specialist); Niels B. Holm-Nielsen (Hazard
Risk Management Specialist);

Supervision Mission December 23, 2008:
Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management Specialist, MNACS; Rosanna Nitti (TTL/Sr. Urban
Specialist); Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi (Procurement Specialist)

Supervision Mission June 3, 2009:
Robert Bou Jaoude (Financial Management Specialist, MNACS; Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi
(Procurement Specialist)

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                   Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Ali Reza Abedini             Consultant                          MNSIF       MIS
Robert Bou Jaoude            Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist      MNAFM Financial Mgmt.
Antonio J. Cittati           Consultant                          AFTEN Project Support
Mouna Couzi                  Senior Program Assistant            MNCLB Project Support
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi        Procurement Specialist              MNAPR   Procurement
Elena Gagieva-Petrova        Program Assistant                   FPDVP Project Support
Niels B. Holm-Nielsen        Hazard Risk Management Special      LCSUW Hazard Mgmt.
Christianna Johnnides        Urban Specialist                     FEU   Urban Mgmt.
Dahlia Lotayef               Sr. Environmental Spec.             MNSSD   Environment
Robert Maurer                Lead Urban Sector Specialist        MNSSD  Urban Mgmt.
Balakrishna Parameswaran     Sr. Urban Spec.                      FEU   Urban Mgmt.
Thao Le Nguyen               Senior Finance Officer              LOAFC  Disbursements
Rosanna Nitti                Sr. Urban Spec.                     MNSSD       TTL
Alessandro Palmieri          Lead Dam Specialist                 OPCQC      Dam

                                             23
Helen Z. Shahriari        Sr. Social Scientist                ECSSD          Social
Hany Shalaby              E.T. Consultant                     MNSRE      Project Support
Hiba Muawyah Tahboub      Lead Procurement Specialist         OPCPR       Procurement
Velayutham Vijayaverl     Senior Procurement Specialist       MNAPR       Procurement
Azeb Yideru               Program Assistant                   MNSSD      Project Support

ICR
 Richard James            Operations Consultant               MNSSD      Primary Author
Alison Cave               Sr. Urban Dev. Specialist           ECSS6      Peer Reviewer
Margaret Arnold           Sr. Social Dev. Specialist           SDV       Peer Reviewer

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                          33                      250.24
  FY04                                           1                        1.62
  FY05                                                                    2.47
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                          Total:                34                      254.33
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                          28                      144.05
  FY05                                          54                      266.91
  FY06                                          48                      212.58
  FY07                                          39                      164.02
  FY08                                          29                      145.18
  FY09                                          10                      108.00

                          Total:            208                       1,040.74




                                           24
                         Annex 5.        Beneficiary Survey Results

Introduction

The beneficiary assessment (BA) is based on the field work that was conducted in March 2010 in
the four provinces by way of individual and group interviews with final and intermediate
beneficiaries, and by direct observation. Around two dozen sub-projects were directly probed by
the BA research team in different locations across Kermanshah, Hamadan, and Zanjan. For
Qazvin province, the results of a separate social assessment commissioned by EERP and
conducted toward the end of 2009 were used. The BA also benefited from the findings of earlier
assessments and supervision reports prepared by the World Bank staff.

Housing, social and public infrastructure

EERP reconstructed damaged homes and significantly improved access to and quality of public
and social services. Most beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the reconstruction efforts and
improved services such as potable water, roads, and housing. Yet, some problems and challenges
were discovered stemming from hasty project formulation without prior studies, lack of
compatibility between the sub-projects and the local community's main priorities or their
lifestyles and social structures, lack of coordination among line agencies, and use of non-durable
construction materials.

Housing

All households with damaged houses received reconstruction facilities to rebuild their homes.
Beneficiaries benefited from a loan from the Housing Foundation's standard home plan (~40
sqm), but had to use their own resources for larger plans. In the process of reconstruction, some
villages located in high-risk areas were relocated altogether. The relocation was achieved with the
participation of the community and using local labor in some cases. But in others, due to local
conflicts and lack of capacity, the Housing Foundation managed the relocation without much
input from the locals. The BA team discovered general satisfaction with regard to the constructed
houses as well as the relocations in the few example sites it visited (for example in Hoseynabad
and Kusajabad in Zanjan and Dastjerdeh Sofla in Kermanshah). Yet, although the standard home
designs sped up the reconstruction process, in many instances the constructed housing is
incompatible with rural lifestyles, social conditions, and different needs among various
households. For this reason, some rural residents have altered their home layouts  unfortunately
without paying due attention to technical aspects of construction. In particular, some households
use the reconstructed homes to keep their animals while they have built additional spaces for their
families. These additions are not constructed according to safety standards.

Village Guidance Plans

These plans intended to improve the spatial organization of the villages as well as to enhance
motorized traffic and surface water drainage. In some of the villages, the guidance plans have
been implemented in haste and without paying due attention to physical, social, cultural, or
economic issues. In some cases, piped water and sewerage projects were implemented after the
completion of the guidance plans. The result has been the destruction of asphalt pavements.
Furthermore, streets in some of the villages lacking piped water have been paved using
cobblestones/cement which is difficult to remove and repave. In most villages where the guidance
plans were implemented, only parts of the streets/alleys have been covered. This has created
dissatisfaction among some village residents. As an example, in the village of Hoseynabad (in

                                                25
Khodabandeh) visited by the research team, a number of houses as well as electric poles were
relocated to make room for the extension of a village street. However, while the sub-base has
been created for this part of the street, the pavement has not been completed and there does not
seem to be any funds available for this purpose. Villagers' sense of ownership of the project is at
minimal levels, in particular among relocated households. Furthermore, the constructed
curbside/surface drainage in some areas is already showing signs of deterioration. It should be
mentioned that in another village in the area (Kusajabad), the quality of construction was found to
be better. In retrospect, it should have been made sure to allocate enough funding for the village
guidance plans to cover the villages more thoroughly. Also efforts should have been made to
understand village residents' priorities, and to minimize disruptive, low-quality and wasteful
activities. The sustainability of the village guidance plans should have also been taken more
seriously.

Schools

Despite the overall satisfactory situation of the school sub-projects, a few problems were recorded
by the BA research team. Since no funding was allocated for the purchase of land in rural areas
(which was in line with the policy of the School Renovation Organization as well), some school
construction sub-projects in rural areas faced land acquisition problems. There were also
problems associated with inadequate needs assessments. As an example, the Shahid Chamran
High School for boys in Dinawar was constructed with 6 classrooms. However, according to the
school officials, the predecessor of this high school already had 10 classrooms. A similar problem
was observed in the Andisheh Vocational High School for girls in Soltaniyeh (Zanjan) where a
space larger than that of the typical classrooms is needed for the tailoring workshop. The gym is
now being used for this purpose, while one of the classrooms has been designated as the gym
which does not seem to be functional. Furthermore, construction workers were present in the
school grounds during the first two months of the academic year while some of the services were
not available. Despite these problems, teachers and students are satisfied with the new school
since the new building is far superior to what they had before. Also, as a very positive case, in
Ab Garm, construction of schools was found to have been well-planned based on a needs
assessment and prior engineering and soil test, as recorded by the separate social study
commissioned by the EERP.

Fire Stations

The management and personnel of the fire stations/fire departments in the four provinces are very
satisfied with the implemented sub-projects and acknowledge that the new stations have enhanced
the coverage of emergency service delivery in the target urban areas and have decreased response
time significantly. In Hamadan, the Fire Department staff claimed that the newly-constructed fire
station had halved the response time in certain parts of the city. In Kermanshah, the management
of the Fire Department reported that the newly-constructed fire station was the only standard
design in the city and had become a model for the construction of future fire stations. Yet, in spite
of the general satisfaction of the Fire Department management and staff with the newly-
constructed fire station in Kermanshah, the building is not comparable to the much higher quality
design of the fire station in Hamadan. Furthermore, the management of the Fire Department in
Kermanshah reported shortages of fire engines and other necessary emergency equipments.

Red Crescent Society

The readiness of the Red Crescent Society is of high importance in the overall capacity of the
disaster management system. In Hamadan, before the construction of the Red Crescent Society

                                                 26
Training Center Annex, training services were offered in a limited manner. Following the
construction of the new training building under the EERP, the quantity of training courses offered
has increased, and considering the availability of more space for the needed equipment the quality
has also improved. The management of Hamadan's Red Crescent Society, the head of the
Training Center, and the trainers expressed satisfaction with the new building. This said, it was
stated that more space would still be needed as dormitory and for accommodating extra training
sessions offered during summer. Furthermore, some of the equipment currently used in the center
is very old and in need of replacement. The satisfaction of the Society's management and staff
notwithstanding, the actual construction of the center was not without problems. The initial plan
for the building was drawn hastily and subsequent changes were costly. Furthermore, the rise in
the price of construction materials meant that the funds for the construction of the buildings were
subsequently rendered inadequate. Part of the cost was ultimately covered from the Red Crescent
Society's own resources. Yet, overall the project has been quite successful.

Health Facilities

Health facilities selected for EERP funding were found to be appropriate and of high priority.
This was thought to be due to the needs assessments conducted on an annual basis by the Office
of Health and Medical Education in each province which determines provincial priorities. As an
example, the Health and Treatment Network facilities visited by the research team in
Kabudarahang, Hamadan, was selected based on predetermined priorities and had few problems
during implementation (although it lacks elevators and soundproof windows). Another important
project completed under EERP is the Emergency Section at the Kabudarahang Hospital. With the
construction of the new annex for the Emergency Section, the old emergency room is used as a
special care unit. This project was considered highly beneficial by the hospital staff. As somewhat
of a counter example, in Ab Garm (Qazvin), the medical facilities covered by the separate EERP
social study were found not to be operating at full capacity due to lack of medical personnel and
equipment despite the general beneficiary satisfaction.

Rural Roads

The BA research team recorded a high level of beneficiary satisfaction with regard to the rural
road initiatives it visited. For example, the 64 km road constructed in Zanjan under EERP was
found to be a great achievement considering the piecemeal construction approaches usually
followed in the rural areas. Furthermore, the BA research team recorded significant benefits of
the newly constructed Kolanjin-Ab Garm highway and also the rural Razak-Buin Zhara road to
the local communities in the area. In particular, the rural road was found to have facilitated the
transport of agricultural produce to markets elsewhere and has enhanced access to medical and
health services. However, the quality of the constructed roads was not found to be at a high level
in terms of sub-base, bridges, slopes, and turns. Furthermore, some conflicts surrounding the
eminent domain were recorded across the provinces. Apparently the extent of these problems
was not large and the conflicts were resolved relatively quickly by offering a fair price for the
land.

Piped Water

Beneficiaries are generally very satisfied with water and sewage initiatives. However, in some
instances certain problems have prevented the water delivery to the households, and some piped
water sub-projects caused water conflicts. As an example, in the Khodabandeh area of Zanjan, of
the 33 defined potable water projects, only 11 have become fully operational. In some cases, the
main water network has been constructed but local pipes have not been laid down. In others, the

                                                27
needed electricity has not been provided. For these reasons, a large number of potential
beneficiaries have not been able to receive their promised water. They are highly dissatisfied as a
result. Furthermore, water conflicts were reported by the Water and Sewage Company. In
particular, it was reported that in one instance in Zanjan (Ab Sofla Water Supply Network), the
residents of one village where the source well was dug to provide water to several surrounding
villages had destroyed the facilities at one time. The conflict had to be addressed through the
police and the judicial system although the water company had purchased the land for the source
well. Furthermore, it did not become clear to the BA research team whether or not adequate
environmental and social studies had been conducted for the water initiatives.

Economic Recovery sub-projects

The economic recovery part of EERP included a diverse group of sub-projects  from rural
irrigation networks to livestock production to cold storage facilities. Some of these subprojects
identified by local agencies have been complex in terms of social and environmental safeguards.
Furthermore, in hindsight, these subprojects could neither constitute an actual economic recovery
package nor explicitly relate to such goals as employment and income generation or
empowerment. Several of the subprojects formulated for economic recovery were eventually
cancelled due to their technical complexity. Notwithstanding the technical complexity of some of
the sub-projects against the background of low-level local capacity, inclusion of these subprojects
under EERP made the already difficult task of reconstruction more cumbersome by diverting the
project's focus. Also, since some of the subprojects were formulated in a quick and haphazard
manner, their implementation, while certainly beneficial, is questionable in terms of costs versus
benefits (for example in very small and remote villages). Finally, the most important goals of
employment generation and empowerment have not been explicitly pursued in the sub-projects.
Nonetheless, many of the subprojects visited by the BA team were found to be highly beneficial
(e.g., cold storage facilities in Kabudarahand) or relatively successful (e.g., agricultural projects
in Qazvin) although others were found to be problematic (e.g., diversion dam in Qanlu of
Zanjdan) or facing difficulties (irrigation project in the village of Shakhdar in Qazvin).




                                                 28
                Annex 6.         Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Introduction:

The stakeholder analysis recorded the opinions of key players in the project to shed light on the
strengths and weaknesses of the initiatives as well as the implementation obstacles they faced.
Individual and group interviews were conducted with provincial line agency managers, project
supervisors, contractors, and the provincial PMU/CMU staff in Qazvin, Zanjan, Hamadan, and
Kermanshah, as well as the PMU/CMU staff in Tehran. A final stakeholder workshop was held
in Tehran with the participation of project management to confirm research results.

Findings:

Strengthening disaster management capacity

The EERP has made contributions to enhancing public sector capacity to prevent, respond to and
recover from natural disasters. For example, it is believed that EERP has contributed to the
passage of the national law that institutionalized the National Disaster Management Taskforce.
Furthermore, EERP has also strived to strengthen public sector institutional capacity to deal with
disasters at the provincial level. The main activities toward this goal were workshops with local
implementing agencies, engineering companies and local contractors and commissioning of a
number of risk reduction studies (in particular micro-zoning in the four provinces). A workshop
series was conducted early in the project in 2004 as the first step of a long-term process to
transfer ownership of the problem to local communities, define action plans that reflect the local
realities and include implementation strategies, and incorporate representatives of all the
community sectors in risk reduction and disaster preparedness activities. The workshops were
designed with the specific objective of starting long-term earthquake risk reduction programs in
the project provinces with the active participation of local authorities, institutions and general
public. The workshop series helped participants realize that prevention and mitigation activities,
with the participation of the entire community, need to be implemented in addition to the crisis
management and emergency response. Yet, follow up on this workshop series has been weak.
Other workshops were only realized late in the project for the provincial disaster taskforces and
specific training was only delivered to some local builders and to some provincial engineers on
retrofitting. A public awareness initiative was also followed mainly through publishing of
brochures. It is not clear what the impact of these initiatives has been. For example, a research
project commissioned by BEERP, which included an assessment of social vulnerability in
Qazvin, Zanjan, Hamadan, and Kermanshan found low levels of awareness and knowledge of
earthquake risks in the capital cities of the four provinces.

Learning and capacity-building

Increased project implementation capacity in line agencies and local contractors has been among
the most important effects of the EERP. According to the interviewed line agency key personnel
and local contractors in the project, a great deal of learning-by-doing and interactive learning took
place during the implementation of the project. New concepts such as social and environmental
assessments have been introduced to local agencies. In particular some respondents among line
agency representatives stated that they had adopted better procedures for land acquisition based
on what they had learned through EERP. Certain World Bank bidding and contracting procedures
have also been adopted by some of the agencies involved in EERP. As a result of the project
certain new implementation and legal capacities in the Iranian context were identified that would
expedite the implementation of similar projects in the future. Furthermore, some of the previously
inadequate procedures have been revised. Line agency personnel who participated in our group

                                                 29
discussions believed that they had become much better in carrying out initiatives similar to those
conducted under EERP.

Speedy Project Formulation

The research team's discussions with various line agency officials, PMU/CMU staff in the
provinces, contractors, and final beneficiaries indicated that some of the projects were included
under EERP without due diligence. In particular, at the time of EERP formulation line agencies
were given a short period of time to list their priorities in the earthquake-stricken area. Many of
the agencies did not have well-thought of plans but saw the occasion as an opportunity to access
EERP's funds. The research team encountered examples of this kind among agriculture, school
and road sub-projects. Hasty formulation of these projects resulted in implementation delays.

Difficulty in supervising a diverse number of projects

The diversity of the projects has made their supervision very difficult. This has been particularly
the case for those sub-projects that sought to improve the economic situation of the beneficiaries
and reduce their vulnerability. Most of these projects have been needed in light of the
underdeveloped situation of the target areas. Overall, beneficiaries have expressed satisfaction
with the outcomes of these projects. However, supervising these projects in practice has been
quite problematic. For example, the Housing Foundation, the CMU, or the PMU have not really
had the capacity to supervise `agriculture' projects. Furthermore, the project was never able to
develop a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system.

Supervision structure

Projects were supervised and required endorsement at several levels. This structure of supervision
allowed for the enforcement of a set of minimum quality standards according to the CMU/PMU
staff. Yet, opinions expressed by line agency personnel and contractors regarding supervision
were mixed. Some believed that the multi-tiered supervision created unnecessary obstacles to the
smooth implementation of sub-projects and were redundant and confusing. In particular, they
stated that it was never clear who would have the final say regarding a sub-project. They claimed
to have never figured out whether project supervision and endorsement were up to the contracted
supervisor or the responsibility of the line agency, provincial CMU/PMU personnel, or the PMU
and CMU in Tehran. Some contractors had to wait for several months to get paid and slowed
down their operations as a result. There was little coordination among various institutions
responsible for supervision. Furthermore, some of those responsible for supervision lacked the
technical capacity to gauge the performance of certain projects. The situation was said to have
been exacerbated due the changes in the EERP management. Related to the above problems was
the unfamiliarity of line agency personnel and contractors with World Bank procedures followed
by EERP. Yet, some line agency managers believed that the multi-tiered supervision procedure,
while cumbersome at times, had been responsible for the higher quality of projects implemented
under EERP and has curbed possible financial irregularities.

Contracts and financial procedures

Many of the line agency personnel and contractors interviewed for this report are of the opinion
that the World Bank contracts had been problematic and responsible for delays. Specifically, the
contracts were considered ambiguous within the Iranian context and less flexible in terms of
prices against the background of a high rate of inflation in Iran. The CMU personnel interviewed
also believed that the contracts used for EERP were different from, and sometimes contradictory

                                                30
to, the experience of line agencies and contractors; however, once the CMU addressed the
ambiguities and contradictions, the problems were solved. Furthermore, some interviewed line
agency personnel and managers believed that EERP contracts were superior to traditional Iranian
contracts in that they upheld the rights of both the client and the contractor. Also, the relative
inflexibility of the EERP contracts in fact prevented long delays in the implementation of the
projects since it was to the benefit of the contractor to finish the project on time. Yet, the
contractors interviewed claimed they did not know who exactly the clients in their contracts were.
They felt that they had to report and coordinate with too many persons/institutions/places.

Related to the above is the incompatibility of Iranian financial procedures with those of the World
Bank followed in EERP. Iranian financial comptrollers have been trained and are obligated to
follow Iranian public sector financial regulations.

In some cases, the hired contractors were found too weak to carry out their sub-projects. This
resulted in the cancellation of these initiatives. Some of the line agency officials interviewed by
the BA research team believed that the World Bank procedures together with the contractors'
grading scheme of the Management and Planning Organizations allowed larger non-local
contractors as well as large contractors with experience in projects other than what they were
bidding for to get the contracts. Lack of familiarity with either the project type or the locality was
believed to have caused some of the cancellations.

Lack of attention to people's priorities and social/environmental issues

Overall, the level of participation by people in project identification, formulation, and
implementation has been low. Also, it appears that little effort was made by the management of
line agencies to seek people's inputs. Furthermore, there has been little systematic process for
individual initiatives to address social/environmental issues. As also suggested by the earlier
World Bank mission, in most cases, line agencies at the local level and the communities sorted
out the issues. This unsystematic approach has causes tension and delays. Also, although the
majority of projects have been well justified and have addressed major needs of the local
communities they served, there have been instances of projects low on the list of priorities. For
example, some of the village guidance schemes probed by the BA research team were
implemented as a priority when the villagers thought what they needed most had been water. In
an Ab Garm case, a water reservoir had been constructed without connections to the water
network which had to be planned by the Water and Sewage Company subsequently, as reported
by the separate EERP social study.

Lack of coordination among agencies

Lack of coordination among local agencies created problems on various occasions. For example,
in Hamadan little coordination was made between the work of the Housing Foundation
implementing village guidance plans and those of other agencies in charge of other aspects of
village development (Agricultural Jihad, Water and Sewage Company, Electric Companies, etc.).
As another example, in the village of Jamishan in Kermanshah, electricity was provided to the
village before the implementation of the guidance plan. As a result some of the electric poles had
to be moved to make room for the guidance plan roads. As reported by the earlier World Bank
mission, in some cases where successful completion of a sub-project depended on the provision
of supporting infrastructure (for example bridges for rural road in Zanjan) long delays were
experienced.

Unfamiliarity with procedures

                                                 31
Several of the representatives of line agencies interviewed by the BA research team believed that
the unfamiliarity of their staff with the World Bank procedures slowed down progress in the
initial stages of project implementation. However, over time the process of learning by doing
helped them to speed up the implementation of their respective subprojects. Also, the Housing
Foundation officials needed time to familiarize themselves with the World Bank procedures. The
resulting delays could have probably been shortened with appropriate action to train and
familiarize Housing Foundation executive staff and management respectively.

Furthermore, Iranian firms bidding on various project components were quite unfamiliar with the
World Bank procedures and procurement requirements. In hindsight a much more focused effort
would have been required to familiarize firms with the procedures and to avoid
misunderstandings and delays. The unfamiliarity of line agencies with the Bank procedures and
guidelines could have been addressed with training and information dissemination on the bidding
process, hiring consultants, contracts, and financial management. Yet, the case of financial
comptrollers is more difficult to address since the problem comprises both unfamiliarity and lack
of compatibility between Iranian and the World Bank financial regulations.

Also, the project faced some financial difficulties as a result of delays in allocation of
Government counterpart funds. These delays seem to have been associated with the lack of
familiarity with the World Bank procedures at the Management and Planning Organization.

Technical capacity at the PMU/CMU

The EERP PMU/CMU faced technical capacity problems during project implementation. The
problems were caused by both the diversity of the initiatives undertaken by EERP and the
difficulty in attracting all the quality personnel the project needed. Changes in the EERP
management as well as in the management of counterpart government/public agencies caused
interruptions in the work of the project. More importantly, there was no succession procedure to
transfer lessons learned and experiences.

Changes in Government Regulations

Among issues that affected the project negatively was the change of regulations. Specifically, the
removal of subsidies on road construction materials during the course of the project significantly
changed the prices the contractors were facing and caused serious difficulties and delays.

Land Acquisition

Many of the contractors interviewed believed that land acquisition procedures and eminent
domain issues were difficult to solve in EERP. This has been due to rapid formulation of the sub-
projects, expectations made in the contracts (fixed prices) to finish the projects in a rapid pace,
and little allowance made for land acquisition problems. Land acquisition and eminent domain
issues were reported to have created significant problems in the case of many sub-projects. This
said, the contractors believed that little coercion was used to acquire the needed lands for the
projects and all land parcels were provided by owners voluntarily and with due compensation
(except for school lands which were donated). However, there were times when land conflicts
were not with private citizens but with other public agencies. For example in the case of the Nurin
fork in Zanjan, gas and oil pipelines did not allow for the project to finish. The project remains
unfinished and a safety hazard.


                                                32
Annex 7.   Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

               (The Borrower's ICR not yet received)




                                33
Annex 8.   Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                               34
                      Annex 9.       List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Technical Annex (Report No.: T7588-IR), May 5, 2003
2.   Back to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires April 2003 through December 2008
3.   Implementation Status Reports July 2003 through June 2009
4.   Mid Term Review Report, May 4-17 and July 9-12, 2005
5.   Loan Agreement Report No. 4697-IRN), August 28, 2003
6.   Operating Manual, April 2003
7.   Progress Report # 11, August 2007




                                            35
36
