                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                               Report No: ICR00003081



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-93070)

                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55.3 MILLION

                                     AND AN

       ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.6 MILLION

                                      TO THE

    ASSOCIATION FOR STRENGTHENING AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN
                  EASTERN AND CENTRAL AFRICA

                                        FOR

                  THE ASARECA MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND



                                   June 30, 2014




Agriculture, Rural Development and Irrigation Unit (AFTAI-3)
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 23, 2014)

                                   Currency Unit = US$
                                   US$1.00 = 2593 UGX

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 – December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF        Additional Financing
AGROBIO   Agro-Biodiversity & Biotechnology Program
ASARECA   Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa
CAADP     Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme
CGS       Competitive Grants System
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
DA        Designated Account
DFID      UK’s Department for International Development
DP        Development Partners
EC        European Commission
ECA       Eastern and Central African
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
FAAP      Framework for African Agricultural Productivity
FARA      Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa
FM        Financial Management
HVNSC     High Value Non Staple Crops
IAR4D     Integrated Agricultural Research for Development
ICU/IT    Information and Communication Technology Unit/Information Technology
IFR       un-audited Interim Financial Report
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
KMUS      Knowledge Management Unit and Up-scaling
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
LFP       Livestock & Fisheries Program
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MDTF      Multi Donor Trust Fund
NARIs     National Agricultural Research Institutions
NARS      National Agricultural Research Systems
NEPAD     New Partnerships for African Development
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NRM       Natural Resources Management
OM        Operational Manual
OP        Operational Plan
ORAF      Operational Risk Assessment Framework

                                             i
PAAP    Policy Analysis and Advocacy Programme
PCD     Partnerships and Capacity Development
PDO     Project Development Objective
RF      Results Framework
SCP     Staple Crops Program
SG      Sub-Grantee
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
TIMP    Technologies, Innovations and Management Practices
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



            Vice President:                    Makhtar Diop
            Country Director:                  Colin Bruce
            Sector Manager/Sector Director:    Tijan Sallah/Jamal Saghir
            Project Team Leader:               Assaye Legesse
            ICR Team Leader:                   Assaye Legesse
            ICR Author:                        Malathi Jayawickrama




                                         ii
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Association for
                                                                              Strengthening
                                                                              Agricultural Research in
Country:                 Africa                     Project Name:
                                                                              Eastern and Central
                                                                              Africa (ASARECA) Trust
                                                                              Fund
Project ID:              P112600                    L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93070
ICR Date:                06/30/2014                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                        Grantee:                  ASARECA
Original Total
                         USD 28.78M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 63.92M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 70.10M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
      Process              Date               Process              Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:                         Effectiveness:                                   11/04/2008
Appraisal:                              Restructuring(s):                                10/04/2012
Approval:               09/19/2008      Mid-term Review:            09/12/2011           09/19/2011
                                        Closing:                    12/31/2013           12/31/2018

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:                    Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:


                                                   iii
                        THE ASARECA MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND (MDTF)


                                                           CONTENTS

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1 

2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4 

3.  Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................................... 9 

4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 19 

5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 20 

6.  Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 23 

7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors (see Annex 7) .... 24 

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................25 
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..............................................................................................26 
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..............................................................................52 
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................53 
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................54 
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................57 
   Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.....................................58 
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................59 
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................60 
   Annex 10. MAP .........................................................................................................................61 




                                                                    iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

    1.1. Context at Appraisal

1.      The countries in Eastern and Central Africa had some of the highest poverty and
hunger rates in the world. About 40 percent of the 200 million population in Kenya, Ethiopia,
Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania were classified as poor and chronically food insecure in 2008. In
six of the ten member countries of the Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in
Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA)--Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),
Eritrea, Kenya, Madagascar and Rwanda--the share of the population living on less than one
dollar a day had increased since 1990, despite generally positive national economic growth rates.
Most of the poor lived in rural areas and depended on agriculture—a core economic sector that
contributed over 30 percent of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) and employed above 60 percent
of the population in Eastern Africa. These peoples’ incomes were limited by low productivity
and poor market access.

2.      Many trials had demonstrated that better technologies such as improved seeds and
soil management, and healthcare for livestock could double yields or do even better. As
agro-ecological zones crossed national borders, however, adapted technologies and best practices
needed to be made available for adoption in appropriate zones throughout the region. A regional
platform was viewed as having the ability to achieve economies of scale by identifying multiple
partners at national level, and moving technologies and knowledge to potential users more
efficiently than could be done on a country-by-country basis.

3.     ASARECA had been established in 1994 as a sub-regional non-profit organization
of the National Agricultural Research Institutes (NARIs) in ten countries of Eastern and
Central Africa, to catalyze and promote cross-border collaboration in agricultural research
that leads to effective and efficient impact across the region. 1 ASARECA’s role was to
support the system of integrated agricultural research for development (IAR4D), and deliver
improved scientific knowledge, policy options and technologies as instruments to drive the sub-
region towards meeting the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme
(CAADP) agenda, which had set a goal of 6 percent annual growth for the sector. CAADP Pillar
IV in particular emphasized increasing agricultural productivity.

4.      ASARECA’s activities had expanded greatly over the years, necessitating
institutional and organizational reforms. In 2006, its programs that had been coordinated
largely in a decentralized manner were consolidated at the Secretariat in Entebbe. ASARECA
had developed a 10-year Strategic Plan to support prioritized areas of research. It also had a five-
year Operational Plan (OP-I) 2008-2013, which detailed the implementation of the strategy, and
set forth new structures, systems and directions necessary to achieve its mandated activities.

5.    A Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) offered a harmonized approach to investments
in IAR4D in the sub-region; an approach that was seen as essential to effectively and efficiently


1
 The ten countries were Burundi, DRC, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania and
Uganda. South Sudan has since joined, making this eleven.

                                                  1
assist institutional reforms in ASARECA. The European Commission (EC) had been supporting
ASARECA activities over several years, but due to administrative issues, in mid-2007, sought an
alternative modality of support. The World Bank had gained valuable experience over many
decades of support to agricultural research and extension world-wide, had several interventions
in the majority of the ASARECA member states, and had provided leadership in donor
coordination to strengthen African capacity in agricultural innovation. The 2008 World
Development Report (WDR)2 that focused on Agriculture for Development and the Global Food
Crisis of 2007/8 3 also provided additional and strong justification for regional collaborative
efforts to boost AR4D initiatives to address the food insecurity and rural poverty challenges.

6.     Based on consultations with key donors, the recipient-executed MDTF was established,
with the Bank as the administrator of the funds. The original estimated amount of the five-year
MDTF was US$55.3 million to support ASARECA’s OP-I. The MDTF became effective on
November 4, 2008.

     1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     The project development objective was “to support a program of integrated agricultural
research for development (IAR4D) as described in ASARECA's Operational Plan, to contribute
to more effective use of resources devoted to agricultural research among the member countries
and wider access to the results of research in the regional agricultural systems of Eastern and
Central Africa”.

8.     The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were: (i) percentage increase in adoption of
technology innovations for agricultural production and processing (across the sub-region); (ii)
number of best practices and methodologies implemented in knowledge management, advisory
services, and integrated natural resource management practices; and (iii) number of advocated
policy options implemented by stakeholders.

     1.3. Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.     The team initiated a slight adjustment of the MDTF PDO and KPI at the MTR in
September 2011, to include ‘dissemination’ of information on agriculture technologies and
innovations, in line with a revision of the ASARECA OP-I Results Framework (RF).
Subsequently, USAID (who joined the MDTF in 2012) and the EC pledged funds to the MDTF
that exceeded the original estimated amount. The additional funds were mainly to support the



2
  The WDR emphasized that agriculture continues to be a fundamental instrument for sustainable development and poverty
reduction. It also highlighted the importance of multi-sectoral approach to capture the synergies between technologies, and the
need to coordinate across countries to provide an expanded market and achieve economies of scalein AR4D initiatives.

3
 The FAO report on the 2008 Food Crisis indicted the urgent need to respond and address the crisis that pushed an additional
115 million people into hunger, and confirmed that agri led growth appears to be a major element in the fight against poverty.
Thus, boosting small farmers’ food production, enhancing agri productivity, improving nutrition and environmental
considerations deserve priority considerations.


                                                                2
validation and scaling up of select agricultural technologies and best practices generated under
the original project. Accordingly, the MDTF was restructured on October 4, 2012 to include
additional financing (AF) of US$5.6 million and new targets to reflect the added results expected
to be achieved with the increased funds. The restructuring also included realigning the PDO and
the Results Framework (RF) to strengthen the links between the output and purpose level
indicators and facilitate effective measurement of the KPIs (AF Project Paper, 2012).

10.     The Revised PDO: To enhance access and utilization of agricultural research
technologies and innovations in the regional agricultural systems of Eastern and Central Africa.
This was to be achieved through supporting ASARECA’s implementation of identified areas of
priorities in research development as described in its OP-I.

11.     The Revised KPIs: (i) number of stakeholders accessing the technologies, innovations
and management practices (TIMPs); (ii) percentage of stakeholders adopting new TIMPs in
selected development domains; (iii) number of reform of policies, laws, regulations and
procedures approved; (iv) level of stakeholder satisfaction with TIMPs; and (v) number of direct
beneficiaries reached through ASARECA support (disaggregated by gender).

   1.4. Main Beneficiaries

12.     Ultimate benefits were expected to accrue to farmer households reached through
ASARECA support and to non-beneficiary farmers through spillover effects. The immediate
beneficiaries were in the ASARECA member countries and included the ASARECA Secretariat
and a broad range of partners required to deliver ASARECA’s wide-ranging program of
agricultural research, extension, and training services, i.e. universities, NARIs, NGOs, and the
public and private sectors that impact publicly-supported agriculture productivity programs.

   1.5. Original Components

13.     Component 1: Research for Development (US$43.46 million). This component
covered: (i) agricultural research and dissemination, to fund the generation of priority research
sub-projects, mainly through a rigorous Competitive Grants System (CGS) or commissioned
directly; (ii) agricultural policy analysis and dissemination, aimed to support policy research
related to productivity, markets, public policy, and strategy for the sector. ASARECA was to
disseminate the research findings and advocate to reform and improve policy decisions in the
sub-region; and (iii) agricultural extension enhancement, to fund work with partners in the
national programs to facilitate technology adoption and knowledge, including developing tools
for the up-take of technologies to benefit agricultural extension and farmer empowerment.

14.    Component 2: Support to ASARECA's Governance Structures (US$1.51 million).
This component sought to strengthen the overall governance and oversight structures to enhance
ASARECA’s ability to fulfil its mandate. Activities funded included technical assistance and
advisory services with respect to internal operational procedures, financial management (FM)
and procurement and information and communication capabilities.




                                               3
15.   Component 3: Support to ASARECA's Management & Administration Structures
(US$8.66 million). This component aimed to strengthen the administration and research support
of ASARECA and to improve the physical infrastructure of the headquarters.

16.    Component 4: Management, Administration & Supervision of the TF (US$1.7
million) was to finance the costs incurred by the Bank in managing and supervising the MDTF.

   1.6. Revised Components. Not Applicable.

   1.7. Other significant changes

17.     Project scope was scaled up to include 13 new sub-projects under the AF. The AF also
financed to a lesser extent: (a) associated ASARECA monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
activities, including capacity strengthening for the selected sub-project executing agencies; (b)
ASARECA operational costs; and (c) a portion of Bank costs for continued grant oversight and
administration. Allocations to Components 1 to 4 were increased respectively by (US$ million):
5.09; 0.05; 0.42; and 0.04. The beneficiaries remained small-scale farmers, with increased efforts
to reach women and youth.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

   2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.     The MDTF was an appropriate tool to assist ASARECA to expand its activities in the
sub-region, and add value to the work of the member-country NARS. The MDTF was prepared
in a participatory manner in consultation with donors and ASARECA, and was open to multiple
donor contributions; thus offering a coordinated approach to investments in IAR4D in the sub-
region. It also facilitated the harmonization of procedures and formats to be applied by
ASARECA, using its own procedures to meet the requirements of all the donors. ASARECA
demonstrated keen ownership of the project and in strengthening its own capacity.

19.    The MDTF incorporated lessons from Bank programs such as the regional West Africa
Agricultural Productivity Project and similar competitive grant systems in several Pillar IV
MDTFs, and from ASARECA’s past performance. These were: research needed not only for
generating but also to focus on validation, scaling out and adoption of technologies. Research
grants awards must be based on explicit economic, eco-regional, social, and technical criteria,
and programs and sub-projects must be regularly reviewed, and regional projects were to address
national interests and priorities to ensure ownership and coordination mechanisms.

20.    The MDTF identified several risks and mitigation measures. ASARECA had established
systems in FM, Procurement Guidelines and accounting policies with USAID support since 2002.
Where these were inadequate for MDTF implementation, i.e. in in-house procurement capacity
and the internal audit system, the MDTF required actions to mitigate risks.




                                                4
   2.2. Implementation

21.    The ASARECA Secretariat demonstrated strong commitment to the project, which
helped to overcome the many day-to-day challenges reported in regular Supervision Mission
Aide Memoires. Overall, the MDTF was well implemented. Key factors that affected
implementation and outputs/outcomes are as follows:

22.     The suspension of the European Development Fund (EDF) on June 30, 2007 (due to
administrative issues) affected 22 CGS research sub-projects that had been approved for
funding under the EC Grant, and had to be abruptly halted. Contracts were suspended for eight
sub- projects that had commenced research activities. The remaining 14 were at different stages
of contracting. Eight had been signed, allocated funds but research work had not started. The
remaining six had been evaluated, approved for funding but not signed. For financing purposes,
detailed costing was required of all remaining activities of the suspended sub-projects. SG
Agreements had to be amended and new contracts entered for financing under the MDTF. Some
CGS sub-projects faced delays of over two years in the transition. Although these were revived
under the MDTF, implementation suffered. The suspension also affected planning and budgeting
at research institutions, and staffing of sub-project teams. In Uganda, the National Agricultural
Research Organization (NARO) halted contracted CG research due to the unexpected shortfall in
funds. Timely communication might have helped NARO to make alternative plans to its program.
Sub-project teams had to be re-assembled and most sub-projects had to be extended in an effort
to complete activities. For example, one project involving five countries, on Exploiting Market
Opportunities for Value Added Dairy and Meat sub-projects, which had been allocated
US$103,000, experienced a 1.5-year freeze. It was retrofitted under the MDTF but closed in
2011, having used only two-thirds of the funds and achieved 60 percent of its planned outputs.

23.     Low utilization of ASARECA’s annual budget with respect to sub-grantees (SGs) (due
to initial fiduciary capacity constraints, which got remedied over time) In terms of actual
expenditures, ASARECA used only 48 percent of the budget in 2009, and carried over US$11
million into the 2010 budget. This pattern continued in early 2010 (Joint Mission Report, May,
2010, p. 21). The low burn rate was a result of non-compliant FM practices and delays in fund
disbursement to SG spending centers, procurement of goods and services by SGs, and
submission of SG financial reports to ASARECA to initiate replenishment.

24.    ASARECA and donors agreed on action plans to resolve this issue (Joint Mission Report,
2010, p. 25). ASARECA proactively executed the plan and, by end-October that year,
accountability of advances made to SGs increased to 67 percent. Steps taken included: the
Secretariat hiring two FM staff to strengthen its fiduciary capacity; ASARECA increasing
support to and monitoring of SG FM and safeguards in line with the Operational Manual (OM);
and capacity building for SGs, including in procurement conducted in Uganda, Kenya, Sudan,
Ethiopia and Rwanda. As SGs had identified high prices for imported goods as an issue, the
Secretariat organized centralized procurement for some items on their behalf. The Bank’s
procurement staff also trained ASARECA Program Managers to assist ASARECA and SGs to
ensure compliance with its own procurement procedures. These steps helped to improve quality
and timely submission of SG reports. Some weaknesses remained, however; and the Secretariat
agreed to closely follow-up on accountability reporting from SGs. By end-December 2013, the

                                               5
burn rate stood at 91 percent. With the extension of the MDTF, the balance is expected to be
spent before end-2014.

25.     ASARECA program implementation was rooted in the CAADP and Framework for
African Agricultural Productivity (FAAP) principles, helping to align the resulting projects to
country needs. The principles of FAAP include: pluralism in the delivery of agricultural
research and training; and the empowerment of end users to ensure their meaningful participation
in setting priorities and work programs to ensure their relevance (FARA, June 2006). This
provided an incentive to member-country NARS to respond to ASARECA and actively
participate in its programs from inception. Further, projects were implemented in partnership
with the different NARS, had in-built performance monitoring plans, and implementers reviewed
progress and develop better strategies to realize outcomes. The broader focus on NARS, and
cross-country execution ensured that outputs were realized due to rich experiences and expertise.

26.      Collaboration with partners helped to supplement MDTF activities to achieve results.
ASARECA partnered with other projects to build research capacity of the ‘less-participating’
NARS (Burundi, Madagascar, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, DRC and Eritrea). These projects
included Strengthening Capacity for Agricultural Research and Development in Africa
(SCARDA) funded by DFID, and Dissemination of New Technologies in Africa (DONATA)
funded by AfDB, and Biosciences for Eastern and Central Africa (BeCa-ILRI) - a New
Partnerships for African Development (NEPAD) Center for Excellence. In 2011, when
SCARDA was ending, ASARECA allocated extra MDTF funds to continue this critical work.
The alliance with various CGIAR centers and other pan-African bodies such as Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), African Union Commission (AUC) and FARA
provided platforms for influencing policy and technology uptake. These activities fitted with OP-
I priorities and helped to achieve MDTF outcomes.

27.     The Mid-Term Review (MTR) in September 2011 was a significant exercise, and
included an Evaluation of USAID Support to ASARECA; and an independent external MTR of
the OP. The MTR identified environmental safeguards concerns, and ASARECA adopted the
proposals to ensure compliance (Section 2.4). The MTR confirmed encouraging progress
towards the MDTF objectives by ASARECA and the SGs despite decentralized and demanding
implementation challenges. The Results Framework (RF) was modified at the MTR, and in 2012
to incorporate activities under the Additional Financing.

28.     Some countries’ internal systems with respect to the flow of funds slowed
implementation; for example, when funds was channeled through Head Offices and not given
directly to implementers. This remains an issue in Ethiopia, DRC, Kenya and Sudan, where, PIs
have to repeatedly follow up, causing delays in obtaining funds and in procurement.

   2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     ASARECA was responsible for M&E, using its’ own RF and M&E implementation plan
that set out performance indicators for OP-I. The MDTF RF was well designed and echoed the
OP-I priorities. The KPIs clearly reflected the PDO, and component activities, expected outputs,
and the KPIs were strongly linked. This made it easier to monitor MDTF outputs and outcomes.

                                               6
30.     ASARECA used M&E at different levels (project, program and ASARECA) for different
purposes, and provided regular monitoring of implementation. By using its management
information and FM systems, activities were kept on track and potential problems addressed. The
system also provided a useful management tool, for example, to track CGS disbursements and to
design relevant training materials. A delay of about eight months from July 2009 in filling the
position in the M&E Unit slowed some activities; however these are now well underway. The
M&E unit trained over 326 people; including ASARECA Program staff and Project Partners in
impact assessment, data quality management, results-based M&E etc. Similarly, relevant and
user-friendly M&E operational procedures and tools were introduced to accelerate M&E and
learning. These have facilitated timely decision making at all levels.

31.    The M&E system improved substantially over OP-I, with good monitoring of outputs in
technology and innovation, generation, adoption and up-scaling, although the latter was limited.
Overall, ASARECA has successfully set up a functioning M&E system and created a culture of
monitoring its activities, projects and programs, and those run by its partners, which is
commendable. The system is online for use by national M&E teams. OP-II has started with a
robust M&E system in place due to the work done at all levels--the Secretariat, NARS, SG and
other IAR4D partners. The Impact Evaluation (IE) 2014 should serve as a baseline for
monitoring activities and outcomes under OP-II.

   2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

32.    The MDTF was classified an Environmental Category B due to its’ relatively limited
environmental impact potential. Three policies were triggered: (i) environmental assessment
(OP/BP 4.01); (ii) Forests (OP/BP 4.36); and (iii) Pest Management (OP 4.09). ASARECA
prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) to be included in OP-I.
The CGS sub-projects’ environmental risks and management plans were identified in sub-project
funding proposals, evaluated as criteria for funding, and monitored by ASARECA’s M&E unit.

33.      The MTR observed that ASARECA had not been applying the provisions of the ESMF to
all its activities, and downgraded overall Safeguard Compliance to ‘MU’ (ISR, November 2011).
These provisions were also not being adequately followed in the newly-approved sub-projects.
Although most of the new sub-projects had been screened for environmental and social impacts,
proper categorization was not being done to identify the level of assessment required. Some sub-
projects that required the preparation of Integrated Pest Management Plans (IPMPs) and ESMPs
had not prepared them. The Bank recommended recruitment of an Environmental and Social
Screening (ESS) Specialist to review and assist in the development of ESS instruments.
ASARECA adopted the MTR’s proposals and incorporated them into the new sub-projects that
began in late 2012/early 2013. Capacity building efforts improved the level of compliance. By
June 2013, safeguards compliance was rated MS and in December 2013 it was upgraded to S.

34.     Financial Management. FM issues were mostly related to the low burn rate discussed in
Section 2.2, and resolved accordingly. The capacity of the Secretariat’s existing FM team is
strong, due to the recent recruitment of an additional accountant to enhance FM oversight of SGs
and an additional internal auditor, and the formation of a stand-alone audit committee. The

                                               7
Secretariat team has adopted a proactive approach of training the SGs on FM and procurement
before disbursement. FM arrangements have been mainstreamed at the SG level. The MDTF is
in full compliance with the financial reporting requirements, including the timely submission of
acceptable quarterly interim financial reports and annual audit reports. All the audit reports have
been unqualified and no major FM weaknesses are reported. The review at the SG level noted
that there were general improvements in the FM systems in most of the institutions.

35.     Procurement. The post procurement review in 2010 of a sample of MDTF-financed
procurement undertaken by the Secretariat highlighted a number of issues including incomplete
procurement files, non-compliance with guidelines for some procurement, and conflict of interest
with respect to the Procurement Officer’s duties. Procurement was downgraded to ‘MS’.
ASARECA management executed the necessary remedial actions, such as fulfilling the
requirement for new sub-project proposals to undergo a procurement assessment, hiring a
Procurement Officer in July 2011, and submitting procurement plans by all new SGs and most
existing partners.

36.    The main remaining activity is the procurement of the construction of the Headquarters.
The size of the building has been scaled down, and the estimated cost has been reduced from
US$2.3 million to US$0.997 million. The Bank has approved the revised structural design and
the National Competitive Bidding method. The contractor is expected on board by July 1, 2014,
and the will proceed during OP-2. The Post-Procurement Review (PPR) noted that procurement
capacity within the Secretariat remained adequate with general compliance with the procurement
manual; however, the SGs require more support and monitoring to conduct timely procurement.

   2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.     The MDTF was designed to close after five years, and was to be followed by another
MDTF with new DP contributions. However, given the processes for setting up new MDTFs, it
became apparent that this approach would not allow for the realities of research and development
field activities, which cannot be readily started and completed on fixed dates without
compromising the results achieved. Consequently, the Bank and DPs agreed to extend the MDTF
for five years (2014-2018) to allow for the: (a) completion of OP-I activities; (b) utilization of
unspent funds; and (c) addition of new funds to support implementation of OP-II.

38.      OP-II has been developed through consultations with all stakeholders, and has three
thematic areas: Natural Resource Management and Ecosystem Services; Markets, Market
Linkages and Trade; and Sustainable Agriculture, Food Security and Nutrition. These have
priority investment areas with associated project topics, expected results, and costs. The themes
build on the collaboration during OP-I, and emphasize greater interaction between the program-
based disciplines, and between the countries. The MDTF and OP-II, however, have so far not
attracted much funds as many developed countries attempt to reduce debt. In response to the
dearth of support, ASARECA has developed a Resource Mobilization Strategy and an Action
Plan, and in line with those, has developed 25 funding proposals (in response to competitive
calls) that have been submitted to a range of funding agencies.




                                                8
3. Assessment of Outcomes

    3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39.     The MDTF’s PDO remains relevant to ASARECA’s strategy, which is aligned with
CAADP Pillar IV and the NEPAD strategy for revitalizing agricultural research, technology
dissemination and adoption. The objectives are relevant to the member states’ pursuit of raising
agricultural productivity through accelerated innovation, and eradicating hunger. The World
Development Report 2008 argues that significant growth in agriculture is critical for most
African countries to meet the MDGs. The objectives are also relevant to the World Bank
Strategy for Africa, 2011, a 10-year vision that embraces greater competitiveness in agriculture.

40.     The multi-faceted approach, which called for interventions in research and dissemination,
ASARECA’s governance structure, and reforms in agricultural policies based on research
findings encompassed the essential elements needed to enhance ASARECA’s value added and
its work with the member country NARS. The MDTF RF was well-designed, with a concise
PDO, and clearly linked and measurable outcome indicators. The restructuring further improved
these links by realigning them with the ASARECA OP-I indicators to allow for better monitoring.

41.    The MDTF funding mechanism allowed multiple donors to work together to facilitate
OP-I and to pool funds for continued IAR4D activities. It has also been an effective instrument
for reducing the administrative burden on ASARECA, through the elimination of separate
supervisions, financial and activity reporting for multiple donors. The Bank, as administrator of
the funds, which also provides technical and administrative support, has set consistent and high
standards throughout the duration of OP-I.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

42.    This section describes how MDTF-supported outputs helped to achieve the PDO. The IE
assessed higher-level outcomes beyond those of the MDTF KPIs and PDO that signify enhanced
stakeholder well-being, i.e. higher yields, income, and food security. These are also briefly
mentioned below and detailed in Annex 5.4

43.     The MDTF’s main objective was to enhance access and use of agricultural research
TIMPs in the Eastern and Central African (ECA) region by supporting ASARECA to implement
OP-I. Component 1 focused on research generation, dissemination and adoption activities, while
Components 2 and 3 sought to strengthen ASARECA’s governance and management structures
to help the Association to fulfil its mandate and assist targeted stakeholders to fully realize the
project’s benefits.




4
 See Annex 2 for details on Outputs by Component, Intermediate Results Indicators, Specific Outcomes under Component 1,
and a full list of definitions including Access, Innovation and TIMPs.

                                                            9
             Table 1. MDTF Key Performance Indicators: Targets and Actual Achieved
                                                                                                                  End of
                                                                   End of
     Project Key Performance Indictors            Baseline                                                       Project
                                                                   Project        End of Project Actual
           (Outcome) Indicators                    2008                                                         ( percent
                                                                   Target
                                                                                                                achieved)
    1: Number of stakeholders accessing
                                                   2,014          265,964                 422,176                  158.7
    TIMPs
    2. Stakeholders adopting new TIMPs in
                                                     8.3              70                     64                     91.4
    selected development domains ( percent)
    3: Number of reform of policies, laws,
                                                      6               28                     18                     64.3
    regulations and procedures approved
    4: Level of stakeholder satisfaction with
                                                      5               81                     71*                    87.6
    TIMPs. ( percent)
    5: Number of direct beneficiaries                                                   2,533,056
    reached through ASARECA support                12,084         1,595,784          (Male: 55 percent;            158.7
    (disaggregated by gender)                                                       Female: 45 percent)

ASARECA, M&E Unit, January 2014.
*Under Indicator 4, the achievement of 71 percent represents only those individuals who recorded either a high or
very high level of satisfaction.

Achievement of Outputs and Outcomes:

          KPI 1: Number of stakeholders accessing TIMPs
          KPI 2: Percentage of stakeholders adopting new TIMPs

44.    The MDTF funded 85 of the 90 successfully-concluded CGS sub-projects since 2009,
and helped ASARECA to deliver a substantial research program. The sub-projects brought
together researchers from 11 countries to generate work on 409 TIMPs of regional importance
(against an OP-I target of 378). A breakdown of projects by program indicates that 310 sub-
grantees received a total of US$30.2 million for research and uptake activities (Annex 2, Tables
1-2).

45.     Generation of Research: Assuring relevance and quality. ASARECA followed a rigorous
process to ensure relevance and quality of research through its seven research programs and the
CGS. The programs were: Staple Crops; High-Value Non-Staple Crops; Livestock and Fisheries;
Agro-Biodioversity and Biotechnology; Natural Resource Management (NRM) and Forestry;
Policy Analysis and Advocacy; and Knowledge Management and Up-Scaling (KMUS). They
were managed by well-qualified scientists, and designed to address only high priority topics and
deliver results within a short time span.5

46.     The CGS was ASARECA’s main instrument for addressing regional research priorities
and improving the rigor and quality of research proposals. CGS proposals were based on the
results of priority-setting workshops attended by stakeholders from all the countries including
government agencies in research and dissemination, NGOs, private enterprises and farmers. This


5
  This was based on International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) analysis, which had shown that “the largest impact for
the greatest number of beneficiaries” would be attainted through a primary focus on major food crops that were also traded
regionally.

                                                             10
process was effective in ensuring congruence with regional priorities. Research designs,
implementation, analyses, interpretation of results and write-up were all undertaken by the
regional teams and overseen by ASARECA Program staff.

47.      Quality of Science (QoS): Through capacity development and the regional collaborative
research program, 293 partnerships were fostered among several agricultural research actors
within the region (exceeding OP-I targets by 23 percent, as described in Annex 2). These
partnerships have allowed for an exchange of knowledge and experiences across different
institutions when dealing with similar challenges. Through these partnerships, research outputs
increased marketing of commodities, institutional mentorship of scientists, adoption of selected
TIMPs, etc. Partnerships were formed, predominantly among NARS actors across the region. For
example, some of the competitive research grants stipulated that collaborative research projects
should be carried out in at least 3 countries involving different actors, such as research institutes,
universities, advisory services providers, private sector, farmer organizations and non-state
actors.6 Bank missions noted that the use of multidisciplinary teams contributed significantly to
overall improvement in the quality of research.

48.      Access to TIMPs: In the ASARECA context, access refers to the ease that people have
in obtaining relevant products and services such as TIMPs. Access to TIMPs includes how to get
them, where to get them, how to use them, and what impact would be achieved after using them.
In all, 422,176 stakeholders accessed an assortment of TIMPs. The numbers accessing new and
existing TIMPS increased steadily over the years except for the reduction in 2012. This was due
to the closure of some pre-OP-I projects inherited by the MDTF, which had limited awareness
and up scaling activities. In 2013, there was a substantial increase in the numbers accessing
TIMPs due to the scaling up/out activities under the additional financing.7

49.     Adoption of TIMPs: Similarly, the uptake of technologies has been good. Methods for
scaling up the adoption of technologies were tested systematically, and a total of 498 demand-
driven TIMPs (12 percent above OP-I target of 444) were made available for uptake and
development. This also included technologies that were already available (‘on the shelf’) where
ASARECA supported the processes to make these technologies accessible. The rate of adoption
of the already-generated TIMPs by stakeholders increased gradually from 20.6 percent in 2009 to
64 percent in 2013. Overall, based on the trends data, the average rate of adoption of available
TIMPs over the five years was 42.2 percent compared to the OP-I target of 43.1 percent.

50.     These new technologies included new crop varieties (including quality protein maize
(QPM) and orange fleshed sweet potato, with significant nutritional value, cassava, sorghum,
green gram, Napier grass, climbing beans, and banana), seed multiplication, new seed production
technologies for vegetatively-propagated staples (i.e. banana), improved soil fertility and water
management practices, improved pest and disease management practices (both crop and
livestock), post-harvest management and value addition (i.e. dairy value chain, bee keeping), and


6
  However, due to capacity issues and access to information, the majority of the grants were awarded to a relative small group of
actors in three countries within the region.
7
  The number of stakeholders accessing TIMPs in each year: 7,120 (2009); 22,915 (2010); 68,632 (2011); 25,557 (2012);
297,952 (2013).

                                                              11
enhanced NRM practices (i.e. afforestation, forage management, integrated agro-diversity, and
conservation management to promote eco-tourism).

51.     Gender was well mainstreamed across the ASARECA program portfolio, with 96 percent
of all research projects categorized as ‘gender-responsive;’ i.e. incorporating gender-responsive
agricultural innovation systems activities in their interventions. Several NARIs have also set up
gender units within their institutions. The IE shows clear benefits for women beneficiaries.

52.    While the first three years of OP-1 focused mainly on generating new TIMPs, the
emphasis in the last 2 years shifted to the out-scaling of these technologies and adoption by
farmers. Building on its experiences of the second part of OP-1, ASARECA has started to
engage more with private sector partners and non-state actors to work on scaling out
technologies through strong linkages to market and value chain development. The IE findings
from OP-1 demonstrate that a number of TIMPs provided clear benefits for farmers in terms of
increased production and increased income, as presented below. For OP-2, ASARECA has
developed a scaling-up strategy, with a strong emphasis on determining the increases in farm
household incomes as well as the levels and rates of adoption of the TIMPs.

53.    The innovation platforms for technology adoption (IPTA) under the Knowledge
Management functions also promoted problem-solving by a wide range of stakeholders,
including researchers, farmers, extension workers, NGOs, policymakers, equipment
manufacturers, traders and processers. The fact that the end users of an innovation were involved
every step of the way in the development of the technology appears to have made innovation
adoption much easier (Aide Memoire, February 2014, Annex 11).

54.      Other positive outcomes include the following:

     4,658 hectares of land were dedicated to TIMPs, mainly for the production and multiplication
      of quality pre-basic, basic and certified seeds of selected commodities (i.e. Quality Protein
      Maize (QPM), African Indigenous Vegetables, snap & climbing beans….);
     Over 20 percent of this land was devoted to seed multiplication, especially for sorghum,
      cowpeas, green gram, QPM, Orange Fleshed Sweet Potato (OFSP), as well as on-station and
      on-farm establishments and rehabilitation of forage seeds;
     Production of 2,436 metric tons (MT) of quality pre-basic, basic and certified seeds from
      these dedicated lands, through seed multiplication and production processes;
     Seed sales of over 30 percent, with the rest distributed to farmers for further multiplication;
     Over 50,000 hectares of highly degraded lands (mainly with the arid and semi-arid lands) and
      watersheds reclaimed;
     Overall, the CGS projects are believed to have helped about 1.45 million smallholder farmers
      and other primary sector producers, including individual processors, rural entrepreneurs,
      managers and traders, and natural resource managers via access to TIMPs, access to inputs
      and markets, and demonstrations. This has led to more resilient crops, higher yields, and
      increased incomes.
     Through the sale of products and services produced from the projects, the targeted farmers
      and stakeholders generated a total income of US$12.5M.


                                                  12
55.       The IE findings on higher-level outcomes include the following (detailed in Annex 5):

 Beneficiaries achieved increases in yields of key crops of most projects surveyed, especially
  QPM, Sorghum-Legume, Bean Innovation (Uganda) and Integrated Water Management
  (Kenya). However, there are large yield variations between farmers and many beneficiaries
  have not yet seen increased yields;
 Cash incomes of beneficiaries increased notably for half of projects surveyed. This is
  significant given the short time period since taking up the technologies. Averaged across all
  projects surveyed, incomes from sales of crops and livestock have increased by an average of
  US$388 per beneficiary between 2008 and 2012. Average incomes for non-beneficiaries fell
  by US$29;
 Total value of net agricultural output (crops and livestock) increased in real terms from 2008
  to 2012 for beneficiary households surveyed from US$940 to US$1047: an average of
  US$106. By contrast non-beneficiary households saw an average fall of US$166;
 Overall, there was an increase in the proportion of food secure beneficiary households over
  the program period from 74 percent to 81 percent. However, food security status varies
  across countries and projects;
 Household nutrition levels increased. A snapshot of nutrition indicated that overall 56
  percent of beneficiary households consumed from all food groups compared to 52 percent of
  non-beneficiary households, although the difference was not highly significant.

56.     There were many other MDTF-supported activities and outputs that were critical in
achieving research outcomes and the PDO. These included ASARECA’s advocacy to reform
policies to help access to and adoption of TIMPs, capacity building of all stakeholders in the
value chain, and the dissemination of research results.

         KPI 3: Number of reform of policies, laws, regulations and procedures approved

57.     It is challenging to assess an organization’s contributions to policy change, especially
when it involves regional harmonization, given the often long and arduous process in which a
multitude of actors engage and interact. The progress made against each of the three intermediate
indicators related to policy changes (policies analyzed, presented for decree, and approved) is
described further in Annex 2. ASARECA played many roles in this process, as a key driver, and
in a supportive role as a convening regional platform for agricultural research and providing
specific technical expertise, i.e. in seed production, and policy analysis expertise (DFID, 2014).

58.    ASARECA‘s Policy Analysis and Advocacy Program (PAAP) contributed to catalyzing
regional trade. Positive impact has been achieved (or is on its way) in such areas as seed law and
the quality of processed agricultural products. For example, collaborative research and advocacy
with ILRI and key decision makers in Kenya enabled small-scale farmers to penetrate extensive
milk markets. Harmonized food standards for cassava supported the development of several
value chains around cassava (see Annex 2 Table 3 for policy-related areas led by ASARECA).

59.    A regional approach to addressing a set of significant policy constraints in collaboration
with well-chosen partners, the majority from outside the NARIs, has been key to PAAP’s
contributions to harmonizing national laws or regulations affecting seed trade, product quality

                                                 13
standards, and crop variety release. The USAID report (2011) particularly highlights PAAP as a
positive example of what ASARECA can achieve through continuous and experienced program
management, and through well-chosen partnerships with regional and international institutions as
well as with individual scientists from beyond the NARIs. As a regional body, ASARECA is
well placed to address some of the national barriers, but even more so the regional bottlenecks
that limit the potential impact of proven agricultural research products.

60.     So far, 100 different policies, laws, regulation and procedures have been analyzed
through assessment by competent analysts, teams and consultants. An example of a policy
analysis for which ASARECA’s role was appreciated was the policy research on trends in food
price transmissions in Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. It showed the need for a clear
roadmap to address the drivers of food price volatility instead of just responding to crises as they
hit. As a follow up, a food price forecasting model was developed and is being piloted and
customized to inform early warning and response systems in the region. The regional data portal
can be accessed at ttps://sites.google.com/a/cgxchange.org/food-prices-portal/.

61.     Policy work has succeeded in facilitating a change in existing polices. A total of 18
agricultural enabling environment policies, regulations, and administrative procedures in the
areas of agricultural resource, food, market standards and regulations were approved. The
relatively low number can be explained by the process of changing policies, which has to go
through various stages. It is also difficult to attribute a policy change to a specific actor, i.e.
ASARECA. An example of a policy option presented for legislation, which was adopted, is
ASARECA’s contribution to the harmonization of 11 standards (cassava (7) and potatoes (4)) for
the East African region, which was mainly driven by EAC. The standards were approved by the
East African Standards Committee (EASC) and were subsequently declared by the East African
Community (EAC) Council of Ministers to be used as East African Standards in 2009.

62.     Harmonized standards are seen as important to enhance farm-level production, utilization
and trade, local and intra-regional. The harmonization of cassava standards had a positive impact
on farmers’ livelihoods through increased income derived from better marketing opportunities
locally and regionally. For instance, it encouraged the Popular Kumi Women Initiative (Uganda)
with its membership of 2,500 to grow cassava and sunflower, as processed sunflower oil and
cassava flour have a ready market in Uganda’s urban centers. The sales from these products
resulted in increased income for the women. They are now able to feed their children, themselves
and husbands better, and now contribute to educating their children.

63.     With regard to impacts of an improved seed policy environment, ASARECA’s support to
enhancing the enabling policy environment for seed trade in the region has mainly been through
the Eastern Africa Seed Committee (EASCOM). A policy impact study on the improved
harmonization of regional seed policies led by ASARECA showed that by 2010, seed production
within the region had tripled from 43,000 tons to about 122,000 tons. Domestic and cross-border
seed trade has also increased threefold from 1,000 tons due to policy reforms, thus leading to
growth in volumes of seed traded. For example in Uganda, the private sector has nearly taken
over the role of seed production. Uganda with its 32 seed companies has fully liberalized seed




                                                14
trade with the government retaining the role of regulation with options to cede some authority to
accredited seed companies (DFID, 2014).8 Full liberalization of seed trade in East Africa has not
been realized yet but work is on-going. It is notable, however, that for seed systems ASARECA
has paved the way by working on key legislations and regulations for an effective seed system in
several of the member countries (Seed law and associated regulations and institutional set-up,
plant variety protection, seed certification, biosafety regulations at COMESA level, etc.).

64.     It is clear from the new practices adopted that ASARECA contributed in a number of
areas to facilitate policy making processes, mostly from a regional perspective. In this way, it has
lived up to its regional orientation by working on issues of a regional nature and with a number
of partners with a regional or international focus such as EAC, COMESA, East Africa Dairy
Regulatory Authorities Council, East African Farmers Federation and CG Centers. However,
policy uptake remains a challenge and a multi-pronged strategy needs to be developed to over
the hurdles of the policy approval.

65.     The MDTF, in collaboration with other projects and donors, supported capacity-building
activities on a range of technical areas that enhanced overall knowledge and application methods
of stakeholders, and contributed to significant positive impacts for farmers in terms of crop and
livestock yields and income. The ASARECA Secretariat provided technical support to the SGs
as needed. This varied with the level of experience of those involved in undertaking the specific
activity. Generally, stakeholders met before, during, and at the end of the activities, and
ASARECA staff and the national Principal Investigators (PIs) visited the activity sites during the
sub-grant to provide technical and administrative backup. Bank missions and periodic external
reviews that have critically assessed this work note the considerable expertise in national
programs involving many effective PhDs. The cadre of researchers (PhD and Masters) from
different countries who have been trained within and outside Africa contributed to the new
knowledge and skills pool.

66.      Overall, ASARECA facilitated capacity strengthening and skills development initiatives
for 81,834 stakeholders (55 percent male; 45 percent female) through a series of targeted short-
and long-term trainings and technical backstopping exercises. Target groups included M&E staff,
Principal Investigators and other players in the value chain (farmers, traders, processors, NGOs,
extension agencies, universities etc.). It should be noted, however, that the total trained includes
both those capacity building initiatives provided by ASARECA directly, and those provided by
other programs with facilitation support by ASARECA (such as SCARDA and BeCa-ILRI hub).
ASARECA has tracked the whereabouts of beneficiaries of its higher education training
initiatives and established that most have been deployed to critical positions in the agricultural
sector in their respective countries. Former ASARECA-supported graduates are working at
NARIs and play a key role in supporting the generation and uptake of new technologies (DFID,
2014). Annex 2 provides examples of the significant positive impacts of the targeted trainings for
farmers in the areas of crop and dairy milk production, and moisture retention of farmlands.




8
 ‘Impacts of an improved seed policy environment in Eastern and Central Africa’ by M.Waithaka, J.Nzuma, M.Kyotalimye, and
O.Nyachae (ASARECA, 2011), and ASARECA Project Completion Review (PCR).

                                                          15
67.     ASARECA created robust communication strategies for its different outputs to realize
greater use of agricultural research and development innovations. ASARECA staff and sub-
grantees made a consolidated contribution to this result, with the lead taken by the M&E team,
the Knowledge Management Programme unit and the ICT unit. Different strategies of sharing
research outputs were used, taking into account the different users and their needs. Some of the
communication strategies were successful and others less successful. ASARECA took into
consideration recommendations following the MTR to strengthen the KMUS and Information
Communication Unit (ICU) to deliver the outputs. For instance KMUS has collated, compiled
and established a database of 37 best-bet “proven” technologies and innovations that are ready
for use in ECA countries – the products of past ASARECA programs, which are well tried and
tested technologies that have potential for up-scaling to improve livelihoods (DFID, 2014). The
KMUS took the lead in coordinating and supporting the development of 885 different types of
information packages (intermediate indicator (IO) 1), while 272 different pathways have been
used to reach the stakeholders (IO 2). The project reached over 2 million stakeholders with a
variety of information products, mostly through demand. The level of satisfaction of stakeholders
accessing disseminated information was 87 percent, against a target of 75 percent (IO 3).

68.    Infrastructures provided mostly to NARIs were important in enabling researchers to
conduct quality research by having access to appropriate and up-to-date research equipment.
Examples include gene banks, computers, laboratory and building refurbishment, screen houses,
nurseries, biodiversity monitoring kits, irrigation kids and forage choppers.

      KPI 4: Level of stakeholder satisfaction with the TIMPs.

69.     After accessing and adopting the available TIMPs, 71 percent of the stakeholders were
highly or very highly satisfied in 2013 compared to 11.5 percent in 2009. The average level of
satisfaction over the five-year period is 40 percent compared to a target of 45.5 percent (due to
the lower levels in 2009 and 2010). The slow increase in the stakeholders’ satisfaction with the
TIMPs and other ASARECA products are mainly attributed to the short timeframe for project
implementation, and the short duration for on-farm testing of the availed products.

70.     The IE carried out a qualitative assessment of farmers’ evaluation of TIMPs. Households
participating in ASARECA projects (beneficiaries) were asked about benefits realized from the
technologies, whether technologies met their needs and to assess their level of satisfaction with
the technologies (IE, p. 105-106, Table 38). The benefits that were reported included: increased
income, production and food security; better nutrition; early plant maturity; reduced farmer labor
requirements; increased soil fertility; and improved soil and water conservation.

71.     Almost 80 percent of farmers surveyed reported that the technology benefits met their
needs. Over 80 percent of OFSP project beneficiaries in Kenya and Tanzania, Bean Innovation
project beneficiaries in Rwanda, Quality Seed Potato projects in Uganda and Rwanda, and QPM
and Crop-Livestock beneficiaries in Uganda gave an overall positive assessment of technology
benefits. A further 65-79 percent of beneficiaries from the Integrated Water Management project
in Kenya and Rwanda; QPM, Sorghum-Legume Intercrop and Crop-Livestock Integration
project in Tanzania; and Bean Innovation project in Uganda stated that the technologies met their
needs. Only the Farmer Led Seed Enterprise project in Kenya had fewer than 50 percent of

                                               16
beneficiaries reporting that the technology had not met their needs. These findings point to the
overall good match between ASARECA- promoted technologies and beneficiary needs.

      KPI 5: number of direct beneficiaries reached through ASARECA support
       (disaggregated by gender).

72.    The total number reached through support programs is about 2,533,056 (55 percent
males; 45 percent females). This is based on the assumption that each farming household has six
members, and that 422,176 stakeholders accessed various TIMPs.

73.      Activities under Components 2 and 3 helped to strengthen ASARECA’s governance and
management structures that in turn improved accountability and influence in national agricultural
research systems. Support to ASARECA resulted in stronger individual, organizational and
institutional capacity to plan and execute credible research linked to the needs of small holder
farmers in the region. Key results include:

 Stronger and more accountable governance framework including a robust Constitution,
  Governance Manual (GM), Operational Manual (OM), host country agreement, effective
  board and management structures, credible research and FM systems, effective operational
  plan, operational M&E systems, compliance with environmental and social safeguards and
  more efficient procurement systems;
 Effective transformation from a loose network of researchers in 2006 to 7 integrated
  programs and technical support unit delivered under a single OP in 2013; and
 From a non-existent gender focus in ASARECA in 2006 to gender-mainstreamed programs
  coordinated by a well-resourced unit in 2013.

74.      The various governance reforms broadened ownership of the organization and diverse
partnerships beyond its traditional partners in research institutions in response to one of the
major principles embedded in the FAAP, namely plurality in the delivery of agricultural research,
extension, and training services. Broadened ownership also expanded ASARECA’s reach to
fulfil its roles as one of the CAADP Pillar IV partner institutions. The roles cover sensitizing
NARIs to the CAADP process, reviewing national and regional investment plans, and support to
research based on ASARECA member country priorities (DFID, 2014).

75.    Overall, the MDTF has helped ASARECA to improve the enabling agricultural policy
and regulatory environment for increasing the productivity of smallholder agriculture in the
region, and successfully achieved its PDO to enhance access and use of agricultural research
technologies and innovations in the agricultural systems in Eastern and Central Africa.

   3.2. Efficiency

76.     The IE conducted an overall assessment of the performance of the OP-1 program based
on the findings from the household survey, using a Cost-Benefit approach. This compared
benefits accruing to program beneficiaries with costs of the program (US$90 million) (Annex 3).
The analysis found that the net difference in incomes between beneficiaries and non-
beneficiaries was US$272. Extrapolated across all ASARECA beneficiaries adopting new

                                               17
TIMPs (270,000 households, i.e. 64 percent of stakeholder accessing new TIMPs), this
represented a net increase in agricultural production value of US$73.44 million (change in
beneficiaries compared to non-beneficiaries). Comparing the value of benefits to the program
costs indicated that in about 1.25 years the program would have covered operational costs. Thus
the benefit-cost ratio was expected to be positive by the second quarter of 2013.

   3.3. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

77.     The MDTF was relevant at the time of appraisal and continues to be relevant. Its
components were also clearly linked and relevant to the PDO. As presented in Section 3.2, the
PDO was achieved satisfactorily with the project exceeding several of the outcome targets, and
in some cases by a significant margin. The IE found that the MDTF-supported activities also
helped to attain higher-level outcomes such as increases in real value of total agricultural output,
income for project beneficiaries, and food and nutrition security for most households, and
participation of women and people with disabilities. In terms of efficiency, the analysis indicates
that the benefit-cost ratio was expected to be positive by the second quarter of 2013.

   3.4. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development:

78.     The IE provides evidence of significantly increased average gross household incomes of
project beneficiaries between 2008 and 2012 (Section 3.2). Averaged across all projects surveyed,
incomes from sales of crops and livestock have increased by 90 percent for beneficiary
households from US$429 in 2008 to US$817 in 2012. Gender aspects have been mainstreamed
into research activities, and the project reached out to women and to households with disabilities
(IE, p. 40). Of the CGS projects, 96 percent are categorized as ‘gender responsive’ (Section 3.2).
Nutrition Security indicators showed improvements for beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries in
Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda (IE, p. 36).

   (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

79.      The MDTF has contributed to building long-term capacity in many areas. ASARECA has
matured in terms of institutional capacity to identify research needs, design and commission
credible research, and ensure research uptake and communication. As a state membership
research body, ASARECA has the legitimate relationship with NARS and international
agricultural research institutes to act as a regional platform for mobilizing resources and
coordinating research at regional level for country and regional benefits. ASARECA has
performed this role effectively by raising and managing resources for OP-1 and commissioning
research under its seven programs. Training activities have also strengthened capacity in all
players in the value chain, particular in the NARIs, and helped these partners to experience the
benefits of well-coordinated research and development. Under OP-2, ASARECA will emphasize
institutional strengthening of the NARIs in ‘less-participating’ countries (see Section 5.2 b).



                                                18
   (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

80.     Spillover Effects with respect to farmers and research staff. Project beneficiaries reported
that between 5 and 27 farmers learnt about the technology from them and a further 3-22 farmers
then went on to take up the technology. Overall, beneficiaries surveyed reported passing on
information to an average of 11.5 farmers, with 7.1 non-beneficiaries taking up the technologies.
The process of project implementation provides time for non-project farmers to learn about the
technology. Even taking out the high rates reported by specific projects, these estimates represent
quite high spillover effects. Strengthening capacity at NAROs also benefits other projects.

81.      Leveraging new sources of support. As ASARECA has implemented some of the
activities under OP-I with other regional bodies and within the CAADP agenda, this has
provided opportunities for scaling up successes, leveraging new sources of support from both
political and financial stakeholders within and beyond the ASARECA region to implement the
activities, and adaptation of the ASARECA model in other parts of Africa. At national levels,
member-NARIs has committed to invest in ASARECA by paying some resources to the
organization. Other impacts include: the President of DRC promoting the up-scaling of QPM;
and ASARECA capitalizing on opportunities to partner with health sectors in various countries
and partners who support better nutrition outcomes. ASARECA’s work has been mainstreamed
into some Ministries of Health; especially in the areas of QPM and OFSP (with Vitamin A)
encouraging young people to promote vine multiplier technologies. A project in Kenya on
“Hidden Hunger” has also taken on promoting OFSP to prevented stunted growth.

   3.5. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

82.    The IE 2014 assesses the performance of ASARECA in meeting its’ OP-1 objectives.
These findings are summarized in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

       Rating: low

83.      The institutional risk to development outcome is low. In addition to ASARECA’s stronger
institutional set up, firmly embedded principals of FAAP in project implementation, and the
various partnerships it has formed, ASARECA’s position as a regional platform for agricultural
research is further strengthened through its linkages to the Eastern Africa Agricultural
Productivity Programme (EAAPP). For OP-II, about U$4.2 million is expected to come through
the EAAPP phase two, if implemented. . Continued strengthening all of its institutional
arrangements will be critical to addressing agricultural challenges that are relevant for the wider
region and go beyond national interests. ASARECA has partnered with other projects and donors
to strengthen the less competitive NARS and human resource capacities of member countries
such as Rwanda, Burundi and Sudan. However, even the strong NARS may have some
deficiencies that limit innovation, dissemination and scaling up (IE, 2014, p. 70). Under OP-II,
ASARECA plans to actively assess capacities of all NARS to ensure continued integration.




                                                19
84.      The financial risk to development outcome is moderate. ASARECA currently fills a
recognized need in the region for collaboration, leadership and technical support for national
research and dissemination activities. Its value has been well demonstrated during OP-I. The
limited core funding so far committed to OP-II poses a risk to ASARECA in terms of its
financial sustainability as it may affect its current governance and management systems. The
extent to which ASARECA will be able to sustain itself depends on its ability to mobilize
resources for OP-II, not only from DPs but also from increased contributions by its member
countries. The recent decision by the BoD (December 2013) to double member countries’ annual
contributions from U$5,000 to U$10,000 is a first step in the right direction. To mitigate the
financial sustainability issues, the ASARECA Secretariat has already launched its Resource
Mobilization strategic implementation plan and has started to aggressively reach out to both the
traditional and non-traditional funding agencies with the submission of 28 concepts and project
proposals totaling US$ 80.8 million and through a series of face-to-face meetings. Effectiveness
of this effort is yet to be seen.

85.    The environmental risk to development outcome is low. Since the MTR identified key
environmental shortcomings as discussed in Section 2.4, the environmental management system
has improved, trainings have been successful, and substantial efforts have been made to enhance
the monitoring of sub-projects.

86.    The social risk to development outcome is low. It is likely that increasing agricultural
productivity and incomes of farming households will improve food security, and the
socioeconomic status of the poor in the ASARECA member countries.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

   5.1. Bank Performance

   (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

       Rating: Satisfactory

87.     The Bank team worked closely with ASARECA and the DPs to prepare the project and
ensure harmonization of DP activities. ASARECA was an established institution with competent
staff and with existing processes in place, such as M&E, FM and procurement systems. This
made it easier to identify and address the gaps that required attention to enhance its overall
performance. The Bank included lessons from ASARECA’s experience pre-MDTF, and
identified risks and mitigation measures. The original PDO and outcome indicators were clearly
linked to its activities (and subsequently refined in line with the Additional Financing).

   (b) Quality of Supervision

       Rating: Satisfactory




                                              20
88.     Supervision missions were conducted jointly with DPs, and included relevant specialists
in areas such as bio-physics and safeguards to increase the intensity of support when needed, and
the team worked together with the ASARECA Secretariat staff and other CGS partners to discuss
the findings and produce comprehensive reports with recommendations for follow up. The MTR9
was a significant and participatory exercise that involved all MDTF donors. Aide Memoires and
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were substantial and candid in identifying issues. The
team is commended for: the follow up in ensuring Procurement and Safeguard Compliance,
especially in providing procurement training that improved ASARECA and SG performance,
and in identifying lapses in environmental safeguards at the MTR and warranting enhanced
compliance; and in refining the RF under the Additional Financing, with indicators that were
simple and measurable, including requiring reporting by gender. Activities under the MDTF
were also coordinated with interventions by other partners and projects (i.e. EAAPP)

89.     ASARECA staff in particular expressed their appreciation of the Bank’s role in
administering the MDTF and eliminating reporting to multiple DPs. While staff view the
internationally recognized standards set by the Bank as onerous to achieve, they appreciated that
training they have received to meet these standards have benefitted them. Finally, the Bank team
has made a notable effort during project implementation, working closely with ASARECA, to
identify lessons and areas that need further work to enhance the design and content of the
extended MDTF (from 2014-2018) and advance ASARECA’s performance under OP-II.

    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

         Rating: Satisfactory

This reflects the ‘S’ ratings under Quality at Entry and Supervision.

    5.2. Borrower Performance

    (a) Government/Donor Performance

         Rating: Satisfactory

90.     The Government of Uganda (GoU) hosted ASARECA by providing physical space and
grounds for constructing its own office. Furthermore, the GoU granted certain diplomatic status
to the organization to enable it to recruit and retain well-qualified researchers and support staff
from the region. Member countries have paid annual contributions (US$5,000) to ASARECA but
unfortunately not all member countries have paid fully or regularly. Member countries need to
consider increasing their contributions to strengthen ASARECA’s financial sustainability. The
overall planning budget for OP-I (with a five-year time-frame from 2008) was US$96 million.
ASARECA received US$84.1 million in total by end-December 2013. US$59.19 million came
through the MDTF. As described under Section 5.1(b), the successes achieved under the MDTF
can be attributed to the efforts of all DPs in providing the bulk of resources for OP-I, and in


9
  A Lead M&E Specialist from AFTOS participated in the MTR exercise and guided and advised the Task Team on the
restructuring processes making sure that applicable policies and procedures are followed.

                                                          21
working together, including participating in annual joint missions, to assist ASARECA to
achieve its mandate. DPs have also conducted detailed evaluations, including USAID (2011) of
its support to ASARECA over a ten-year period, and DFID (Project Completion Review, 2014)
adding to the knowledge and lessons in terms of enhancing ASARECA’s future performance.

   (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

91.     ASARECA has done an outstanding job in implementing the MDTF under OP-I. Its
leadership in reinforcing the working relationship with a range of stakeholders and implementers,
from the Heads of NARIs and the overall NARS, to the beneficiary farmers has been
instrumental in making the MDTF a success. ASARECA has not only put in place structures,
systems and processes to support the functioning of the Secretariat and sub-projects, but it has
also effectively used and refined its systems such as in M&E and capacity building initiatives to
consistently improve the delivery and outcomes of its research programs. ASARECA has also
responded in a timely manner to comply with Bank procedures, including in accounting and FM,
to reduce the risk of fraud and corruption and to ensure that every dollar received is contributing
towards the intended beneficiaries (DFID, 2014, p. 25). ASARECA has also taken steps to
strengthen the relevance of gender as one of its core businesses. Beneficiary feedback and
findings during the ICR mission endorse ASARECA’s success in implementing OP-I.

92.     The imbalance of ASARECA’s grant funding contribution remains an issue of concern,
in particular for those countries with less-participating NARS that receive less support. Some
effort has been made to strengthen these NARS through human resource needs assessment, short
courses, and mentorship. However; these have been implemented largely through special
programs and have not involved the main “business process” of the competitive grant program.
There is a clear tension between supporting high quality agricultural research and building
capacity of the less competitive NARS (DFID, p. 15). As capacity strengthening is a key
function of ASARECA, ASARECA needs to review the CGS mechanism to identify strategies to
support organizations in countries that are currently under-represented, without compromising
the ‘quality of science’. In OP-2, the addition of a criterion that each CGS application must
include at least one ‘less-participating’ NARS (although it may be headed by stronger
organizations) can help to reinforce these NARS. In this regard, lessons learned during the final
years of OPI should be strengthened and applied. However, this will come with added
transaction costs given increased mentoring and capacity building efforts.

93.     ASARECA has had relatively high overhead and support costs as noted in the external
MTR and by DFID (DFID 2014). About 48 percent of the OP-1 budget was allocated to research
project sub-grants, and 7 percent to capacity building for the grantees. The average expenditure
to administrative, governance and operational expenditure has been between 25 -28 percent
during OP-1. Part of the relatively high operational cost is explained by the shift in functions
including a stronger knowledge hub management function. However, 28 percent is on the high
side compared to 20 percent in similar institutions. ASARECA needs to conduct a critical
examination of its cost structure and identify prospects for cost savings, to streamline
administrative costs to an acceptable level.

                                               22
   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory

This reflects the ‘S’ ratings under Government/Donor and Implementing Agency performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Six lessons were learned from implementation of this project.

94.    First, agriculture research and development, especially field activities, requires
sustained effort to be successful. Such an undertaking cannot be readily started, stopped and
completed on a fixed timetable without compromising the results achieved. As discussed in
Sections 2.2 and 2.5 with regard to the EDF’s suspension, this lesson was carefully considered in
the decision not to close the OP-1 MDTF and set up a new MDTF to support OP-2. Additional
Financing under the MDTF in 2012 and the extension of the MDTF allowed for the continuation
of funding and of activities and enabled a smooth transition from OP-1 to OP-2.

95.     Second, it is important for research and dissemination to address the entire value chain
rather than focusing on only specific segments, and equally important not to overlook the
policy landscape. It is critical for research undertakings to identify the bottlenecks in the entire
value chain. For example, farmers must not only be encouraged to adopt a technology such as
better seed, but they need to be educated to look at markets. In addition, the arduous process of
policy and regulatory reforms cannot be neglected. This is all the more important in regional
projects involving intra-regional trade and numerous country-level decrees. For example, in
Tanzania, farmers were trained in seed production, which led to increased seed supply. Farmers
were also linked to markets that displayed demand for high quality seed. However, the policy
environment limited the sale of seeds to only the immediate area (i.e. the local wards). In
another instance, in Kenya, there was plenty of seed (for vegetables), but they could not be sold
to Tanzania, as seed harmonization had not been approved for local indigenous vegetables.
Production does not necessarily translate into a ready market.

96.     Third, it is important to ensure that information and knowledge flows are appropriate
and up-to-date. This again relates to assessing all the elements in a value chain. OP-1 has taught
ASARECA that a project approach is not sufficient; ASARECA needs to become the focal point
for knowledge generation and exchange, and serve as a sub-regional hub for data and
information generated by agricultural research institutions. For this reason the ICU is being
restructured under OP-2. A system’s databases must match the technologies available to ensure
timeliness of information provision and to maintain a knowledge platform. With respect to
raising awareness of stakeholders along the entire value chain, especially farmers’ awareness of
the benefits of generated technologies, there should be better use of interactive communication
tools, including social media tools. ICT could also provide an entry point to involve youth in
value addition and markets.

97.    Fourth, it is important to be proactive in identifying and selecting partners in research
and dissemination endeavors to achieve desired outcomes. The MDTF was a success partly due

                                                23
to the numerous partnerships that were formed and strengthened. At farmer level, a key lesson
from OP-1 that is being used in OP-2 is: find ways to engage farmers and get them on board, and
be seen as addressing their needs. Having a strong image and identifying with stakeholders
makes it easier to approach them. ASARECA used many pathways to achieve this, including
national farmer associations, NGOs, extension, farmer empowerment projects, discussion groups,
and television. At higher levels, finding and working with partners with similar interests, for
example, health ministries and donors supporting health outcomes, and others in agriculture (i.e.
CGIAR, COMESA, and the Gates Foundation) can help complement and add value to a project’s
activities. In regional projects, partner with member countries that have a comparative advantage
in select areas of the value chain.

98.      Fifth, to ensure sustainability of the regional AR4D initiatives, sustainable and
ensured source of funding is very important. Since agriculture research on identified production
and productivity challenges should be a continuous undertaking, a funding gap could seriously
affect the outcomes. While ASARECA is dependent on DPs support for its regional AR4D
initiatives, it is time to seriously consider other funding sources through its Resource
Mobilization Action Plan, including more contributions from member countries, link with the
private sector, generate own income, consider cost sharing arrangement with implementing
institutions and more importantly implement the “Cost Containment Plan” recently approved by
the BoD.

99.    Finally, research programs should work together to build on synergies and reap the
corresponding benefits and not only have a commodity focus. The reason for the three thematic
areas under OP-2 is to break the silo focus and to emphasize greater interaction between the
program-based disciplines and between countries.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors (see Annex 7)

   (a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
   (b) Financiers/Donors
   (c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                              24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)*                             Appraisal
                                                                millions)*

Research for Development                     48.55                  48.27             99.4
Support to ASARECA’s
                                              1.56                   1.65             105.5
Governance Structures
Support to ASARECA’s
Management & Administration                   9.08                   9.07             99.8
Structures
Management, Administration &
                                              1.74                   1.74             100.0
Supervision of the TF
              Total Baseline Cost            60.93                  60.73             99.6
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                   0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                   0.00             0.00
               Total Project Costs           60.93                  60.73             99.6
Project Preparation Costs                     0.00                   0.00              .00
        Total Financing Required             60.93                  60.73             99.6

* Includes Additional Financing of USD million 5.09, 0.05, 0.42, and 0.04 respectively for the
four components, as described in Section 1.5 of the ICR.


(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
Trust Funds                                              0.00        0.00
CAADP Pillar 4 institutions                             60.93       60.73        99.6




                                               25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The MDTF’s first three components sought to strengthen the integrated agricultural research for
development (IAR4D) program based on ASARECA’s Operational Plan-I, and as described in
Section 1.5 of the ICR. Component 1 focused on activities related to research generation,
dissemination and adoption of technologies, innovations and management practices (TIMPs),
while Components 2 and 3 aimed to strengthen ASARECA’s governance, management and
administrative structures that were needed to successfully achieve outcomes.

The MDTF PAD and the Project Paper (PP) at restructuring present the MDTF Results
Framework and Output Targets for the Intermediate Indicators.10 These are organized by five
Output/Results areas in line with the ASARECA OP-I, rather than by MDTF Component. These
areas, listed below, relate to and can be directly mapped to the MDTF’s Components. This
Annex presents the MDTF outputs by Component, and also by Output/Result areas.
Achievements under the Intermediate Indicators are listed following the text in this annex.

     MDTF Component 1 (Research for                      MDTF Components 2 and 3 (Governance
                Development)                             and Management)
Output/Result 2: Enhanced generation and                 Output/Results 1: Strengthened gender-
uptake of demand-driven TIMPs.                           responsive governance and management
                                                         systems in ASARECA;
Output/Result 3: Enhanced adoption of policy
options by decision makers to improve
performance of the agricultural sector in ECA.
Output/Result 4: Strengthened capacity for
implementing agricultural research for
development in ECA sub-region.
Output/Result 5: Enhanced availability of
information on agricultural innovation in ECA.

Project achievements/Outputs:

Component 1: Research for Development
Output/Result 2: Enhanced generation and uptake of demand-driven TIMPs

Under this output, ASARECA focused on the generation of TIMPs appropriate for the varied
farming systems, as well as supporting the national systems in the identification of appropriate
pathways, methods and approaches for up-scaling the identified TIMPs (see this Annex for a
detailed list of definitions on Access, Innovation and TIMPs.)

For ease of tracking, ASARECA defined TIMPs under four main categories, those under:
(i) research and development (in laboratories or controlled plots);
(ii) field testing;


10
  “CAADP Pillar IV Multi-donor Trust Fund for ASARECA” November 26, 2008, p. 37; Project Paper, October 4,
2012, Annexes 1A and 1B, p. 10-14.

                                                    26
(iii) validation (i.e. trials in fields by independent groups of scientists and other personnel); and
(iv) in uptake pathways, i.e. made available for transfer.

  Intermediate Indicator 2.1: Number of demand-driven TIMPs generated.
  OP-I Target: 378; Achievement: 409.

  Intermediate Indicator 2.2: Number of demand-driven TIMPs available for uptake.
  OP-I Target: 444; Achievement: 498.


The MDTF funded 85 of the 90 successfully-concluded CGS projects since 2009, and
helped ASARECA to deliver a substantial research program (Table 1). The projects brought
together researchers from 11 countries to generate work on 409 TIMPs of regional importance
(against an OP-I target of 378). A breakdown of projects by program and country indicates that
310 sub-grantees received a total of US$30.2 million for research and uptake activities

                   Table 1. Status of ASARECA-funded Projects under OP-I
                                                                 Ended Projects (since 2009)
   Program
                                                          MDTF        Others              TOTAL
   1. Staple Crops                                         22            -                   22
   2. High Value Non-Staple Crops                          8             -                   8
   3. Agro-Biodiversity & Biotechnology                    10            1                   11
   4. Livestock & Fisheries                                17            -                   17
   5. Natural Resources Management & Forestry              8             2                   10
   6. Policy Analysis & Advocacy                           9             -                   9
   7. Knowledge Management& Up scaling                     9             2                   11
   8. Information & Communication                           1            -                    1
   9. Partnerships & Capacity Development                  1             -                   1
   TOTAL                                                   85            5                   90
 Source: ASARECA Annual Progress Report, January 2014, ASARECA M&E Unit, and ASARECA Finance Unit


                Table 2. ASARECA Grant Allocations
                                                 Total Portfolio
             Country            No. of Sub-Grantees     Project Amount (US$m)
             Kenya                       70                        9.4
             Uganda                      57                        6.0
             Tanzania                    53                        5.1
             Rwanda                      34                        2.3
             Ethiopia                    22                        1.7
             Burundi                     22                        1.6
             Sudan                       15                        1.1
             Congo                       13                        1.0
             Eritrea                     14                        0.9
             Madagascar                   7                        0.7
             South Sudan                  3                        0.3
             Totals                     310                       30.2
            Source: ASARECA Finance Unit


The main TIMPs generated can be classified under the following categories: (i) Crop/Livestock
Genetics & Breeding; (ii) Crop/Livestock Germplasm Conservation, Characterization &

                                                     27
Evaluation; (iii) Seed Multiplication; (iv) Disease & Pest Management; (v) Crop/Livestock
Production Technologies; (vi) Post-harvest Handling & Value Addition; and (vii) Natural
Resource Management.

Table 3. Fund allocation for all MDTF-funded Projects by Program (2009 - 2013)
          Program                                              Sub-Grant amount
                                                                 (US$ million)
          Staple Crops                                               3.35
          High-Value Non-Staple Crops                                1.58
          Livestock and Fisheries                                    3.47
          Agro-Biodiversity and Biotechnology                        1.99
          Natural Resource Management (NRM)                          2.83
          Policy Analysis and Advocacy                               1.12
          Knowledge and Up-Scaling                                   3.49
          TOTAL                                                     17.83
         Source: Finance Department, ASARECA

Uptake of TIMPs was good. A total of 498 demand-driven TIMPs (12 percent above target were
made available for uptake and adaption/adoption by stakeholders within the ASARECA-member
countries. All TIMPs made available for uptake also fall under the same categories as above.
This also included technologies that were already available (‘on the shelf’) where ASARECA
supported the processes to make these technologies available. The rate of adoption of the
already-generated TIMPs by stakeholders increased gradually from 20.6 percent in 2009 to 64
percent in 2013. Overall, based on the trends data, the average rate of adoption of available
TIMPs over the five years was 42.2 percent compared to the OP-I target of 43.1 percent.

These new technologies included new crop varieties (i.e. cassava, sweet potatoes, sorghum,
maize, green gram, Napier grass, climbing beans and banana), seed multiplication, new seed
production technologies for vegetatively-propagated staples (i.e. banana), improved soil fertility
and water management practices, improved pest and disease management practices (both crop
and livestock), post-harvest management and value addition (i.e. dairy value chain, bee keeping),
and enhanced NRM practices (i.e. afforestation, forage management, integrated agro-diversity
and conservation management to promote eco-tourism).

Output/Result 3: Enhanced adoption of policy options

  Output/Result Indicator 3.1: Number of policies, laws, regulations and procedures analyzed
  Target: 78; Achievement: 100.

  Output/Result Indicator 3.2: Number of policies, laws, regulations and procedures presented
  for legislation or decree. Target: 54; Achievement: 46.

  PDO Indicator 3.3: Number of policy options approved (also a PDO indicator)
  Target: 28; Achievement 18.


In line with earlier findings from the USAID Evaluation (2011) and the independent MTR report
(2011), the WB MDTF Final Review Mission (2013) concluded that this output met its

                                                28
expectation by project closing, although not all indicator targets were fully met.

ASARECA defines policy analysis as a formal written analysis of a policy by a competent and
experienced analyst, technical working group or its equivalent, teams, or consultants. It may
include discussions and interactions with stakeholders and a desk review of relevant documents.
This analysis can eventually form the basis and/or starting point for developing policy options.

With respect to policy analysis, dialogue and legislation, ASARECA worked very closely with
various legislative bodies in the member countries, including the national Legislative
Assemblies/Parliaments, the East African Community and COMESA. ASARECA’s contribution
has come through two broad actions: support to research; and brokering of national policy
changes. Through this collaboration, a total of 100 policies, laws, regulations and procedures
were analyzed, and covered the following areas: (i) Harmonization of Root Crop Standards; (ii)
Regional Quarantine Pest List; (iii) Analysis of Food Price Trends; (iv) Review of laws
governing tick control in Kenya, Uganda & Tanzania; (v) Regional Intellectual Property Rights
(IPR) Policy; and (vi) Adoption and diffusion of Integrated Water Management.

One example of a policy analysis for which ASARECA’s contribution was recognized and
appreciated has been the policy research on trends in food price transmissions in Ethiopia,
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. It showed the need for a clear roadmap to address the drivers of
food price volatility instead of just responding to crises as they hit. As a follow up, a food price
forecasting model is being developed and will be piloted and customized to inform early warning
and response systems in the region. Data for the regional database has been collated for Ethiopia,
Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda. The regional data portal can be accessed at
https://sites.google.com/a/cgxchange.org/food-prices-portal/.

A total of 46 policies, laws, regulations and procedures were presented for legislation, decree
and/or endorsement by responsible policy structures. Areas presented for dialogue and debate
included: (i) Harmonization of Regional Biosafety Policies; (ii) Harmonized Root Crop
Standards; (iii) EAC Seed Potato Standard; (iv) Regional Biosafety Policies; and (v)
Rationalization & harmonization of policies (i.e. analysis of food trends).

A total of 18 were approved and/or passed for implementation. These policies focused on
agricultural resources, food, market standards and regulations. Table 4 lists some of the kinds of
research and research products led by ASARECA. The low achievement in the number of
policies approved is due to the long and difficult process involving many preliminary steps.

An example of a policy option presented for legislation or decree which has been adopted is
ASARECA’s contribution to the harmonization of 11 standards (cassava (7) and potatoes (4)) for
the East African region, which was primarily driven by the EAC. The standards have been
approved by the East African Standards Committee (EASC) and were subsequently declared by
the East African Community (EAC) Council of Ministers to be used as East African Standards in
2009. In addition, the EASC identified 13 other standards and codes of practices to further
harmonize standards.

Harmonized standards are seen as important to enhance farm-level production, utilization and

                                                29
    trade, local and intra-regional. The harmonization of cassava standards had a positive impact on
    farmers’ livelihoods through increased income derived from better marketing opportunities
    locally and regionally. For instance, it encouraged the Popular Kumi Women Initiative (Uganda)
    with its membership of 2,500 to grow cassava and sunflower, as processed sunflower oil and
    cassava flour have a ready market in Uganda’s urban centers. The sales from these products
    resulted in increased

    With regard to impacts of an improved seed policy environment, ASARECA’s support to
    enhancing the enabling policy environment for seed trade in the region has mainly been through
    the Eastern Africa Seed Committee (EASCOM). Since the regional agreement on harmonization
    of seed policy in 2004, countries are currently at various levels of its domestication with
    Tanzania in the lead. A policy impact study on the improved harmonization of regional seed
    policies led by ASARECA showed that by 2010, seed production within the region had tripled
    from 43,000 tons to about 122,000 tons. Domestic and cross-border seed trade has also increased
    threefold from 1,000 tons due to policy reforms, thus leading to growth in volumes of seed
    traded. For example in Uganda, the private sector has nearly taken over the role of seed
    production. Uganda with its 32 seed companies has fully liberalized seed trade with the
    government retaining the role of regulation with options to cede some authority to accredited
    seed companies (DFID 2014, p. 10-11).11

                            Table 4. Policy-Related Areas led by ASARECA in OP-1
 Broad Policy         Geographic           Constraint/            Research               New                  Impact Pathway
    Areas               Scope               Problem               (related)         Policy/Practice             Description
                                           Identified              Output              Adopted
Seed                 Burundi, DR        Growth of seed        Harmonized           Harmonized             Movement of
Harmonization        Congo,             sector                seed                 policies, laws         germplasm across
                     Ethiopia,          constrained by        certification,       and regulations        countries, private sector
                     Kenya,             different and         variety release,     and procedures         involvement in seed
                     Madagascar,        often                 phytosanitary                               production and trade,
                     Rwanda,            contradictory         measures, plant                             more varieties available
                     Sudan,             policies,             variety                                     to farmers
                     Tanzania and       regulations and       protection, and
                     Uganda             procedures            import export
Informal dairy       Burundi,           Limited               Evidence             Harmonized             Trade in milk products
                     Kenya,             recognition of        supporting           policies, laws         across countries,
                     Rwanda,            informal milk         policy reforms       and regulations        informal traders these
                     Tanzania and       sector                and guidelines       and procedures         milk products, more
                     Uganda                                   on safe                                     market outlets available
                                                              handling of                                 to small farmers
                                                              informal milk
                                                              by players
                                                              across the value
                                                              chain




    11
      For example, the policy analysis paper ‘Impacts of an improved seed policy environment in Eastern and Central Africa’ by
    M.Waithaka, J.Nzuma, M.Kyotalimye, and O.Nyachae (ASARECA, 2011) analyzed the positive impact of harmonized seed
    policies across the region in terms of increased seed production and regional seed trade. It proposed policy recommendations to
    further strengthen the harmonization of seed policies within the region.

                                                                   30
Biosafety          19 COMESA      Lack of regional    Guidelines and    Harmonized        Access to GMO seeds,
Framework          countries      mechanism to        policies          policies, laws    lower production costs
                                  regulate GMOs       regulating        and regulations   at farm level, higher
                                                      commercial        and procedures    returns at sector level
                                                      planting, trade                     and improved access to
                                                      and use of                          emergency aid
                                                      GMOs in
                                                      emergency aid
Harmonized         5 EAC states   Lack of grades      Harmonized        Harmonized        Commercialization of
Product Grades                    and standards for   standards         policies, laws    cassava and potato
and Standards                     cassava and                           and regulations   sectors and welfare
                                  potato products                       and procedures    benefits to producers
                                                                                          and consumers along
                                                                                          the value chains
Natural Resource   Ethiopia,      Dry lands           Recommendatio     Harmonized        Improved targeting of
Management in      Kenya and      considered to be    n domains and     policies, laws    investments in dry
the Dry Lands      Tanzania       waste lands         investment        and regulations   lands, improved
                                                      options that      and procedures    livelihoods and
                                                      improve                             sustainable land
                                                      livelihoods                         management
                                                      while
                                                      conserving


   Output/Result 4: Strengthened capacity for implementing agricultural research for
   development

       Output/Result Indicator 4.1: Number of ASARECA projects that have incorporated
       gender responsive agricultural innovation. Target: 103; Achievement: 99.

       Output/Result Indicator 4.2: Number of stakeholders whose capacity building needs have
       been addressed. Target: 89,375; Achievement: 81,834 (56 percent male; 44 percent
       female).

       Output/Result Indicator 4.3 Number of partner institutions with infrastructure capacity
       strengthened. Target: 355; Achievement: 471.

       Output/Result Indicator 4.4 Number of partnerships formed
       Target: 238; Achievement: 293.
   Over 96 percent of the implemented projects incorporated gender responsive agricultural
   innovation system approaches, since most of the projects targeted women even at the project
   design stage. This approach, coupled with selection of gender responsive indicators, ensured that
   that the projects addressed gender issues, including the needs of women, youth and other
   disadvantaged groups. This approach was also very helpful during the selection of individuals for
   targeted short- and long-term trainings.

   Overall, 81,834 stakeholders benefited from capacity strengthening initiatives that were focused
   on short- and long-term trainings. ASARECA contributed to capacity development of research
   processes in member countries at various levels. The cadre of researchers (PhD and Masters)

                                                         31
from different countries who have been trained within and outside Africa has contributed to the
new knowledge and skills pool. This has increased the capacity of the NARS, making a
significant difference to the weaker NARS and to key areas of other NARS. Training of the 150
researchers was as follows: 15 PhD (9 male; 6 female); 112 MSc (73M; 39F); 4 BSc (2M and
2F); and 19 Diploma/Certificates (12M; 7F). These initiatives covered individual day sessions,
multi-day workshops and a series of inter-related trainings and workshops.

ASARECA offered short term professional development training opportunities for staff involved
in ASARECA supported research activities including, Integrated Pest Management (IPM),
laboratory management, plant disease diagnostics, agricultural innovation systems approaches
and value chain development and more program management oriented training such as M&E
skills, gender awareness, financial management and procurement.

ASARECA also facilitated access for young and mid-level scientists to training opportunities
supported by other programs. For example, SCARDA, funded by DFID through the Forum for
Agricultural Research in Africa (FARA), was launched in 2007 to cover three member countries
(Rwanda, Burundi and Sudan). It contributed by strengthening competencies and capacity in
agricultural research management through an experimental learning process and putting
mentoring and coaching practices in place. SCARDA also supported 40 young and mid‐level
scientists (out of the 150 students mentioned above) from several ASARECA countries with
training at MSc level at five universities in the ASARECA sub-region in various disciplines,
including plant breeding, horticulture, animal science, agricultural information and
communication management, research methods and range management. SCARDA has also
helped the countries in leveraging resources to complement efforts by ASARECA towards
improving the research capacities in the region.

Overall, ASARECA has facilitated access to capacity building activities for a large group of
beneficiaries but it should be noted that not all training and capacity building activities was
directly supported by ASARECA but also included other capacity building programs such as
SCARDA and the linkages established with the ILRI-BeCA hub.

ASARECA’s Results Framework also tracks the number and type of various infrastructure
provided to various institutions. For example, 471 different types of infrastructure have been
funded and/or provided to the NARIS, representing 133 percent achievement of OP-I targets.
Support to improving infrastructure has been important to enable researchers to conduct high
quality research by having access to appropriate and up-to-date research equipment. Examples of
such infrastructure investments include gene banks, computers, laboratory and building
refurbishment, screen houses, nurseries, biodiversity monitoring kits, irrigation kits, and forage
choppers.

The regional collaborative research programs have fostered the development of numerous
partnerships among several agricultural research actors within the region. These partnerships
have allowed for an exchange of knowledge and experiences across different institutions when
dealing with similar challenges. ASARECA defines a partnership formed when there is a clear,
written agreement or Memorandum of understanding or exchange of letters, to work together to
achieve a common objective, including specification of the contributions of the parties involved.

                                               32
Through capacity development support, 293 partnerships have been either formed or
strengthened (exceeding OP-I targets by 23 percent) with strategic partners. Through these
partnerships, research outputs (increased marketing of commodities, institutional mentorship of
scientists, adoption of selected TIMPs, etc.) have been noted. Various forms of partnerships were
formed, predominantly among NARS actors across the region.

For example, some of the competitive research grants stipulated that collaborative research
projects should be carried out in at least 3 countries involving different actors, such as research
institutes, universities, advisory services providers, private sector, farmer organizations and non-
state actors. However, due to capacity issues and access to information, the majority of the grants
were awarded to a relative small group of actors in three countries within the region.

For a good part of OP-1, three countries (Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania) dominated the
competitive research grants arena, reflecting the principle of best quality research winning the
grant awards and historically, closer cooperation between these countries in forming consortia. In
total, 57 percent of all projects were granted to Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, 3 out of 11
countries. In terms of budget resource allocation, the imbalance is even more apparent, with 68
percent of total project budgets allocated to these three countries, with the remaining 32 percent
allocated to the other 8 countries, with in particular countries such as Eritrea, Congo, Sudan,
Madagascar and South Sudan had minimal access to funds and technical support.

Some effort has been made to support the less participating NARS through human resource
needs assessment, short courses, and mentorship. However; these have been implemented largely
through special programs and have not involved the main “business process” of the competitive
grant program. The continuing imbalance of ASARECA’s grant funding contribution remains an
issue of concern, in particular for those countries that receive less ASARECA support.
ASARECA plans to address this issue under OP-II.

ASARECA has also developed and intensified its linkages with the Consultative Group on
International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Centers. By the end of 2013, ASARECA is
partnering with 11 of the 15 CGIAR Research Programs (CRPs) either through: (a) strategic
policy and regulatory work; (b) use of CRPs as implementers of a research task in ASARECA
supported research; and (c) ASARECA serving in the governance of the CRPs. By and large, the
interaction follows subsidiarity principles involving the global input from CRPs to complement
the regional agenda. ASARECA has also initiated a capacity building cooperation with the
BecA-ILRI hub which is perceived of having been successful. The WB mission review suggests
that the CGIAR consortium could be an important partner for exploring wider opportunities for
capacity building for the NARS across the CRPs. For resource mobilization, ASARECA may
explore opportunities to participate and to access funding in the next round of CRPs to be
launched in 2017. The CGIAR also has a wealth of information and data that could support the
policy work in ASARECA.




                                                33
Output/Result 5: Enhanced availability of information on agricultural innovations

 Output/Result Indicator 5.1: Number of information packages produced
 Target: 812; Achievement: 885.

 Output/Result Indicator 5.2: Number of appropriate information delivery pathways used.
 Target: 267; Achievement: 272.

 Output/Result Indicator 5.3: Number of people reached with information packages through
 different pathways used. Over 5,000,000.

 Output/Result Indicator 5.4: Level of satisfaction of stakeholders accessing disseminated
 information. Target: 75 percent; Achievement: 87.6 percent.



This output was critical to ASARECA’s commitment to achieving its purpose level statement of
‘enhanced utilization of agricultural research and development innovations in Eastern and
Central Africa’. This required a consolidated contribution from all ASARECA staff and their
sub-grantees. ASARECA fully recognized the importance of creating robust communications
strategies for its different outputs. The units within ASARECA taking the lead for this output are
the M&E team, the Knowledge Management Programme unit and the ICT unit. Different
strategies of sharing research outputs were used, taking into account the different users and their
needs. Some of the communication strategies were successful and others less successful. This
output is assessed by a combination of 2 quantitative indicators around number of information
packages produced and information delivery pathways used. Another critical indicator looks at
the stakeholders’ satisfaction of accessing the disseminated information.

By end of 2013, ASARECA has achieved 109 percent and 102 percent respectively of their two
quantitative performance targets for this output to the end of the OP-I period. Over 2 million
people accessed 885 available information packages (indicator 1) which included peer reviewed
journal articles, manuscripts, books and book chapters, conference proceedings, electronic
newsletters and documentaries. Among the 272 delivery pathways (indicator 2) used included
websites, agricultural shows, television, radio, field days, media events, workshops, etc. Based
on feedback from stakeholders who accessed some of the disseminated information, a total of 87
percent of the beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the information products, which is above
the target of 75 percent (indicator 3).

Components 2 and 3: ASARECA’s Governance and Management Structures

Output/Results area 1: Strengthened gender-responsive governance and management systems
in ASARECA.

The overall goal in the area of governance was to establish a system that would enhance
ASARECA’s ability to fulfil its mandate, and, more specifically, establish and operationalize
appropriate governance and management structures, systems and procedures. The indicators

                                                34
listed below related primarily to a establishing a diverse decision making process including
stakeholders outside of the ten member countries’ NARI Director Generals, reviewing the
Constitution, updating ASARECA’s ten-year old legal, governance and management
instruments, establishing a fully-staffed Secretariat, improving the guidelines and use of the
guidelines for procurement, financial management and general administration, and reviewing the
headquarters agreement.

Output/Result Indicator 1.1: Pluralistic decision-making process.
ASARECA has continued to promote governance that is hinged on promoting pluralistic
decision-making approach. This approach involves the engagement of multiple participants that
combine and "pyramid" their "resources" to shift decisions in separate "issue areas” without
privileging any particular viewpoint. Various stakeholders with diverse skills, capacities and
experiences from the NARIs, Universities, NGOs, Farmer Organizations, Public and Private
sectors were engaged in various fora, including the ASARECA General Assembly, Strategy
development (e.g. Gender Mainstreaming), Board of Directors’ meetings, as well as during
internal and external reviews.

Output/Result Indicator 1.2: Compliance with organizational operational procedures and
standards.
It is noteworthy that ASARECA has made good progress in delivering stronger governance and
management systems, including overall gender responsiveness. It has also consolidated its
planning processes into the Operational Plan (OP), whose implementation is ensured by having
comprehensive annual work plans and budgets.

Output/Result Indicator 1.3: Percentage growth in research funding
During the OP-I implementation period (2008/9 - 2013), the overall planned budget for
ASARECA-supported activities was US$96 million. However, US$84.1 million was received by
end of December 2013, including the MDTF’s share of U$59.1 million. The implementation
period noted a steady increase in replenishment of the funds from MDTF (and other donors),
even though there was no additional unrestricted core funding added to the MDTF after its set-up.
For example, MDTF helped in leveraging additional funds for earmarked projects from other
development partners, thus joining the pool of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Institute
for Development and Research Centre (IDRC), Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA) and Eastern African Agricultural Productivity Program (EAAPP).

Output/Result Indicator 1.4: Rate of implementation of the new ASARECA constitution.

When the MDTF was signed in November 2008, ASARECA had an old Constitution that
mandated it to focus mainly on agricultural research. It also had Committee of Directors (CoDs)
made up of 10 NARI Directors who provided policy guidance to the Association. As stipulated in
the 2008 OP, there was a need to develop a new constitution that accommodated the transition
from the previous Networks, Programs and Projects (NPP) mode into Programs mode and, a need
to transform the CoD to a new Board that had a much broader mandate and responsibility. As a
result, under the MDTF, a new constitution was drafted, approved by the new Board and ratified
by four member governments - Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, and Rwanda - enough to make the



                                              35
constitution effective. The MDTF supported the governance of ASARECA through the review
and revision of the ASARECA Constitution.

Governance Manual (GM). When the MDTF was signed, there was no GM. The new
constitution established organs and institutions of the Association and, the BOD subsequently
issued a GM, which is a complement to the Constitution, to set out the roles, functions,
responsibilities and decision-making processes. The GM showed the relationships between
ASARECA and its principal stakeholders in the governance process and serves as a reference
document for the stakeholders of ASARECA who wish to know how the Association is governed.
The manual is a guide to the management of the affairs of the Association and is intended to
ensure that ASARECA observes the principles of good governance. The MDTF supported the
review and revision of the GM.

An expanded Board of Directors (BoD). The new constitution created a new representative BoD,
and expanded membership from 10 to 18 members comprising: 11 Director Generals of NARIs,
representatives from the Universities, NGOs, Private Sector, Farmer Organizations, COMESA,
Agricultural Extension Services, and CG centers (15 men and 3 women). This has enabled other
stakeholder groups to have a stronger voice in matters related to ASARECA’s direction and
operations. The Board has Committees and includes the Executive, Audit and Finance,
Nominating and Program Committees. The functions of the BoD and its sub- committees are
defined in the governance manual, and regular meetings have been held and documented. The
MDTF provided support to meetings of the expanded BOD and other means necessary for the
BOD to provide strategic oversight.

In the area of management, ASARECA’s Secretariat was established and is fully functional. It
comprises the Executive Director (ED), the Deputy ED - Programs, eight research programs and
ten support units. The Secretariat is responsible for the day-to-day management of ASARECA’s
programs and units. It has continued to grow since its restructuring in 2009 and has attracted high
caliber professional staff to run the new programs and units. In the last year, there were changes
to the Secretariat’s organization and structure in response to recommendations made during
implementation review missions, and also to prepare the necessary institutional infrastructure that
can fully support the implementation of OP-2. These include the creation of a Gender Unit, a
new Environment and Social Safeguards Unit, and an Information and Communication
Technology Unit. The MDTF helped to strengthen the capacity of the ASARECA Secretariat by
updating its systems and contributing to its operational costs and capital equipment.

Operational Manual (OM). There was no ASARECA OM at the start of the MDTF. The OM,
which is updated as the need arises, sets forth detailed guidelines and procedures for
implementing ASARECA’s program, and guides day-to-day operation of the Secretariat.

Headquarters Agreement: The old agreement that registered ASARECA as an “Inter-
Governmental Association” has been revised and a new Headquarter Agreement was approved
by the Government of Uganda.

Headquarters Building. Land for the construction of Headquarter building is secured and
architectural and design work redesigned. Construction is expected to commence in 2014.

                                                36
       The MDTF supported many outputs to strengthen governance and management including
       support to the Office of the Executive Director, Internal Auditor, procurement, financial
       management and information and communication management. MDTF support also helped
       ASARECA to make significant progress in developing M&E tools and promoting results-based
       management. Training workshops were organized for the ASARECA Program Managers,
       Principal Investigators, Project Scientists, and selected stakeholders to strengthen their skills and
       ability to apply M&E concepts and approaches for the key areas of ASARECA interventions.
       The M&E unit also assessed the status of M&E activities within 11 selected NARIs.

       ASARECA put considerable effort into getting these governance structures in place in the first
       and second year of the MDTF and OP-I. Bank missions have reviewed the key governance
       documents, the Board agenda and interviewed relevant people, and concluded that the structures
       and arrangements are fit and appropriate for the purposes of ASARECA.

                        ASARECA MDTF Outcome and Intermediate Results Indicators

       Project Outcome Indicators            Unit of   Baseline                            Target and
                                             Measure    2008                       (Actual) Cumulative Values
                                                                     YR 1        YR 2        YR3        YR 4         YR5
                                                                     2009        2010        2011       2012         2013
Indicator 1: Number of stakeholders          Number     2,014        7,370      31,564      119,064    189,964      265,964
accessing the technologies and innovations                          (7,120)    (30,035)    (98,667)   (124,224)    (422,176)

Indicator 2. Percentage of stakeholders      Percent     8.3           18        27.4        41.8        58.4          70
adopting new technologies and                                        (20.6)      (25)       (41.5)       (51)         (64)
management practices in selected
development domains (desegregated by
gender)

Indicator 3: Number of reform of policies,   Number       6            -           8          16          24           28
laws, regulations and procedures approved                             (-)         (6)        (11)        (13)         (18)

Indicator 4: Level of satisfaction with      Percent   5 percent      33.3       33.3        56.7        71.2          81
technologies and innovations                                         (11.5)      (24)        (58)        (75)         (71)

Indicator 5:Number of direct beneficiaries   Number     12,084       44,220     189,384     714,384    1,139,784    1,595,784
reached through ASARECA support                                     (42,720)   (180,210)   (592,002)   (745,344)   (2,533,056)
(disaggregated by gender) {New}

                                             INTERMEDIATE RESULTS
Output 1: Strengthened gender responsive governance and management systems in ASARECA
Indicator 1:Pluralistic decision making               10       On      On course On course               On
processes                                          NARIs in course                                      course
                                                     Board
Indicator 2: Compliance with              Percent   No OM                         On course              On
organizational operational procedures and            & GM                                               course
standards

Indicator 3: Percentage growth in research   Percent     5.70         15          30           50         65           75
funding                                                             (14.98)     (30.6)       (48.4)      (61)         (72)



                                                               37
Indicator 4: Rate of implementation of the                                             Initiated     On
new ASARECA Constitution                                                                            course

Output 2: Enhanced generation and uptake of demand driven agricultural technologies and innovations
Indicator 1: Number of demand-driven     Number      57          40         129          241         293          378
technologies/ innovations generated                             (35)       (106)       (211)        (261)        (409)

Indicator 2: Number of demand driven          Number    15         117        217        311         377          444
technologies available for uptake                                  (86)      (171)      (275)       (313)        (498)

Output 3: Enhanced adoption of policy options by decision makers to improve performance of the agricultural sector in ECA
Indicator 1: Number of policies, laws,     Number        6          3         16         37           55            78
regulations and procedures analyzed                               (15)       (26)       (51)         (65)         (100)

Indicator 2: Number of policies, laws,        Number     6          2          12         26          42          54
regulations and procedures presented for                           (11)       (19)       (28)        (36)        (46)
legislation or decree

Output 4: Strengthened capacity for implementing agricultural research for development in ECA sub-region
Indicator1: Number of ASARECA              Number       3          3           30          51        79          103
projects that have incorporated gender                            (5)         (32)        (52)      (72)         (99)
responsive agricultural innovation systems
Indicator 2: Number of stakeholders        Number     200         511        27,152      50,782    69,516       89,375
whose capacity building needs have been                         (3,872)     (30,777)    (45,064)  (53,515)     (81,834)
addressed

Indicator 3: Number of partner institutions   Number    66         25         140        261         303          355
with infrastructure capacity strengthened                         (23)       (139)      (250)       (345)        (471)

Indicator 4: Number of partnerships           Number    32         43          86        132         181          238
formed                                                            (47)        (91)      (140)       (189)        (293)

Output 5: Enhanced availability of information on agricultural innovation in ECA
Indicator 1: Number of information         Number        82         99         268       486         595          812
packages produced                                                  (130)      (286)     (565)       (678)        (885)

Indicator 2: Number of appropriate            Number    22          40         92        150         207          267
information delivery pathways used                                 (38)       (90)      (149)       (200)        (272)

Indicator 3: Number of people reached         Number    TBD                                                   >5,000,000
with information packages through
different pathways {New}

Indicator 4: Level of satisfaction of         Percent   35          65         68         70          75          75
stakeholders accessing disseminated                               (69.3)      (73.3)    (65.2)       (85)       (87.6)
information




                                                             38
Specific Outputs and Outcomes under Component 1: Research for Development

The following provides a brief summary of selected key achievements of MDTF-supported
ASARECA interventions.

Crops/Livestock Genetics & Breeding
1. In Uganda (Masaka and Kumi Districts), intercropping forage Napier grass with the forage
legume Centrosema pubescens increased fodder availability compared to pure stand of Napier
grass by 50 percent, crude protein (CP) content by about 20 percent and feeding period (number
of days a cow was able to feed on fodder from a given area of land) by about 30 percent. Roof
catchment underground water harvesting tanks with capacity of 35,000 litres were introduced on
24 farms to improve water availability for agricultural and domestic use. With a seasonal water
availability of >35,000 litres, a shift in family labour from fetching water to other income
generating activities was recorded. Availability of improved milk yield and household income by
80 percent and 52.4 percent, respectively was also noted, while the area under forage production,
fodder quantity and water availability increased by about 134 percent, 76 percent and 46 percent,
respectively.

2. Improved livestock management using improved productivity-enhancing technologies for
smallholder dairy project proved beneficial to the farmers. For example, a total of 318
households received Artificial Insemination (AI) services, leading to insemination of 1,201 cows
and the birth of 753 improved calves, while 370 cows are in calf. A further 17 calves were
produced through embryo transfer in Rwanda (Rwamagana). So far, over 700 small-scale
farmers have adopted AI services.

Crops/Livestock Production
3. In Kenya, in a span of 2 seasons, the adoption of seed selection techniques resulted in
increased potato yields from an average of 2.8 tons (worth US$1,150/acre) to over 7.5 tons
(worth >US$3,000/acre). As a result, some farmers are now using the techniques to produce
more seed potato for sale to other farmers. In Burundi, a total of 14 farmer groups, comprising
140 farmers (47M, 93F) have benefited from interventions aimed at enhancing the utilization of
quality seed potato by small-scale farmers. As a result, they recorded 140 percent increase in
potato yield, from 5 to 12 tons/ha, from the baseline/pre-project productivity.

4. On the other hand, the promotion of ready markets for seeds of African Indigenous
Vegetables has benefited targeted farmers and private investors. Through contract farming
between farmers and selected seed companies (e.g. Kenya Seed Company) in western Kenya, the
companies are assured of meeting their production while farmers (comprising 83 women) are
guaranteed ready markets. One of the beneficiaries of this contract farming earned a net income
of US$17,000, while another female farmer received US$3,383 from her 0.4 ha piece of land
within two seasons through the planting of jute mallow and Crotalaria. In general, a total of 11
farmers received an average annual income of US$3,500 from sale of certified AIV seed.

5. In Uganda, farmers are using Brachiaria mulato introduced by the project for hay making for
sale. A 20 Kg bale of hay sells at US$4. As a result of this income-generating opportunity, a
small scale farmer in Mityana district that obtained planting material from the project has started

                                                39
commercial hay production, and is selling over 200 bales per month at US$5 per bale. On the
other hand, in Kenya, a total of 31 farmers are making hay from Rhodes grass (Chlorisgayana)
and the number of hay bales (14-21 kg) per household ranges from 40 to 150. This has a value of
between US$160 – US$600 for these farmers.

6. In Uganda and Tanzania, the utilization of improved livestock feed technologies has resulted
in an increase in milk production from 6 to 11 and 6 to 8 litres/cow/day respectively, resulting in
increased incomes. For example, in Uganda where the average cost of milk is US$0.35/litre, each
household generated an average of US$3.85/cow/day, leading to an average monthly income of
US$115/cow. On the other hand, the daily consumption and sales of milk has resulted in
significant impact on people’s health, with some reported cases of reduced kwashiorkor in the
communities.

7. Sorghum ox-weeder being adopted in Tanzania reduces drudgery by 75 percent per acre, thus
saving US$125 as labor costs for the farmers. On the other hand, the prototype labor saving
technologies (hay balers and forage choppers) have been developed for reduction of labor
drudgery especially for women dairy farmers.

8. With regards to enhancing utilization of bean innovation to enhance food availability, a total
of 34,155 households (204,930 individuals) have benefited, and are currently accessing improved
varieties, leading to production of over 69 tons of breeder/foundation seed (Uganda – 10.85 tons;
Rwanda – 48.5 tons; Burundi – 9 tons; and DRC – 0.7 tons). Some of these seeds were planted
for further multiplication, and eventually for sale. So far, over 518 tons have been produced and
availed to the market as certified and quality declared bean seed.

9. Through the use of gender-responsive climbing bean technologies, especially the wood
stakes, over 1,000 farmers in Rwanda realized increased yields, ranging from 1,013 to 3,467
kg/ha, as well as higher economic returns of US$950/ha. Similarly, using cord as stakes, each
farmer harvested between 780 and 3,500 kg/ha, thereby receiving economic returns of US$1,300
compared to very low returns before the intervention. In areas where intercropping was
practiced, yield increases were observed. For example, where the individual farmer intercropped
climbing bean with maize, the yield range was 367 to 2,100 kg/ha, and the average economic
return was US$2,030.

10. In Uganda, the current highland maize varieties (long season and high yielding) produce
grain yield of about 9 t/ha compared to 2.3 t/ha from the lowland varieties. The most productive
varieties (4 new hybrids) that have been included in the National Performance Trials (NPT) can
yield more than 12 t/ha, which is 25 percent more than the current imported Kenyan varieties. It
is expected that the release of any of these varieties will help farmers in the ECA region address
food security issues.

11. More than 70 tons of both certified and quality declared bean seed of climbing, bush and
snap beans has been produced by small seed farmer groups, associations and partnering seed
companies in Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.




                                                40
12. In Kenya and Tanzania, a study conducted to assess the effect of irrigation and cattle manure
application on vegetable (Solanum aethiopicum) production showed that vegetable yields and
revenue increased by over 500 percent (i.e. 25 to 200 bundles), leading to a net profit of
US$1,415/ha/season.

13. Through the tissue culture interventions, over 200 Ugandan farmers and a potential number
of farmers from the participating countries have, and are likely to benefit from clean disease and
virus free plantlets of cassava, sweet potatoes and banana. On the other hand, tissue culture
laboratories have lowered the cost of production of tissue culture plantlets by 40 percent by using
more innovative and cost-effective methodologies. The use of virus indexing techniques in tissue
culture has assured farmers of quality and disease-free materials, resulting into 60 percent higher
yields.

14. As part of the initiatives to enhance productivity of cabbages, cheap and readily available but
effective manures were used by farmers in Masaka, Uganda who significantly enhanced their
cabbage yields. For example, the average yield (15.4 t/ha) of cabbages from manured plots was
157 percent higher than the yield (6.0 t/ha) obtained from plots where no manure was applied.
The cabbage heads obtained from poultry manured plots were 9 percent, 49 percent and 95
percent heavier than the heads obtained from goat, cattle and non-manured plots, respectively.
The study clearly showed that poultry manure could confer significant benefits to cabbage
producers at a relatively low cost, given that most of the farmers in the project area keep poultry.

15. In, Masaka, Uganda, fodder and grain yield increased by 26 percent and 6 percent
respectively when maize was intercropped with the forage legume, Lablab purpureus. This
approach led to a weeding cost saving of about US$50/ha for the targeted farmers, thus
cushioning the farmers who intercrop maize-lablab against feed gap during the dry season.

16. In the Eastern Province of Rwanda, ASARECA’s support to COPROVIBA (a community-
based cooperative) has contributed to an increase in weekly production of banana beverage from
200 crates (i.e. 9,600 crates) in 2009 to the current 1,200 crates (57,600 crates annually).
Currently, the cooperative earns US$10,000 per week as compared to US$1,700 per week in
2009. This has boosted the production of banana by the farmers in Ngoma, where they supply up
to 3 tonnes of banana bi-weekly to the cooperative. The farmers receive an average of US$0.13
per kilogram of banana supplied to the cooperative, which has also turned out to be a sure market
for them.

17. In Goluj, Eritrea, farmers now obtain yield of 1.8 tons/ha after adopting improved pearl
millet varieties and sell the seed to the Ministry of Agriculture at a premium price 25 percent
over traditional varieties. Similarly, in Sudan, pearl millet innovations have benefited over 3,500
farmers, besides an annual yield increase from an average of 8.7 to 16 bags (100 kg) per hectare.
In Kenya, one of the farmers in the semi-arid lands of Baringo County produced and sold 500 kg
of pearl millet to Egerton University for distribution to other farmers. Besides this, she also
produced and sold 500 kg of groundnuts and 300 kg of pigeon peas. She generated a net income
of US$1,160 from the previous season’s sales.




                                                41
18. With regards to linking best practices in integrated soil-water and nutrient management, rice
farmers in Korogwe District, Tanzania have realized significant increase in crop yields in their
“best-bet” plots compared to “farmer practice” plots. Benefit-cost ratios of between 2 and 15
were recorded for “best-bet” plots, leading to increased annual net income from US$44 to
US$625/farmer/ha. On the other hand, the number of farmers linked to new markets increased
from 15 to 150 for onion and chickpea, and from zero to 80 for lablab produced in rotation with
rice.

19. Significant positive impacts of the short-term targeted trainings for the farmers have been
noticed, leading to multiplier effects and increased levels of success of the ASARECA
initiatives. For instance, 50 percent and 733 percent increment in potato yield and bean
production respectively, was recorded by Burundi farmers, besides a 39 percent and 78 percent
increase in milk production in Kenya and Uganda respectively. In Tanzania, there was 100
percent increase in the daily milk production during the dry and wet seasons (i.e. 2 to 4
litres/cow in dry season and 4 to 8 litres/day in wet season). For example, in some previously
degraded project areas like Melkassa in Ethiopia, the following results were realized through the
integrated management of water for productivity and livelihood security under variable and
changing climatic conditions project:

   (a) Farm production of selected commodities increased by over 50 percent from the baseline.
   The technology testing and adaptation results also show significant increases in crop yields,
   viz.: maize 78 – 99 percent ; tef 11 – 12 percent; haricot beans 13.6 – 14.3 percent; wheat 29
   – 100 percent; and barley 0.4 percent - 12.2 percent percent.
   (b) Over 348 percent moisture retention on the farmlands was achieved through the
   application of in-situ moisture conservation practices such as tied ridges in the model
   watershed;
   (c) Significant improvements in trees and grass cover have been recorded, especially in areas
   that had no vegetation at all. These areas have also recorded rainfall of up to 47mm per day
   (from a record of scantiness).

Disease & Pest Management

20. ASARECA interventions in selected project sites in Uganda, Tanzania and Burundi resulted
in significant reduction in the occurrence of the Banana bacterial wilt (BXW) disease. For
example:

   (a) In Uganda (Bushenyi, Ntungamo and Mbarara), the proportion of farmers who managed
   to control the disease increased from below 5 percent percent to over 60 percent and banana
   production recovered from total loss to 60 percent of the previous production levels in 15
   months. Given that the average production of banana under optimal conditions and
   appropriate agronomic practices is 80 bunches/acre, these farmers increased their production
   to over 50 bunches per month (at20kg). Based on prevailing farm-gate prices of US$
   6/bunch, each farmer generated an average monthly income of US$300. On the other hand,
   organized farmer groups in Western Uganda earned as low as US$30 per month from their
   infected farms in 2009. However, in less than 3 years, these same farmers’ group earned US$



                                               42
   21,600 (a monthly increase from US$30 to US$600). The production levels and sales are still
   increasing.

   (b) In the Eastern Province of Rwanda, stringent by-laws crafted by the communities
   themselves were used to resuscitate banana production in BXW affected areas with the
   resultant outcome of increased production from obscurity to nearly 80 percent of previous
   levels in the affected hot spots.

   (c) In Maruku Ward, Tanzania, the number of households affected by BXW dropped from
   1,815 in 2011 to 950 in March 2013. The community declared that the disease has been
   controlled to about 80 percent in the ward.

   (d) In Cibitoke, Burundi, the average number of bunches sold by farmers was 109/month
   before the incidence of the BXW. At the peak of BXW attacks, this declined to about 8
   bunches/month (representing harvest loss of 92 percent). Recovery interventions showed that
   farmers currently harvest an average of 37 bunches/months, representing over 72 percent
   increase from the disease peak levels.

21. The study to validate the effectiveness of TSOL18 vaccine in control of porcine
Cysticercosis in DRC, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, and Rwanda is steadily ongoing. The vaccine,
targeting 1,200 farmers has been received in all these countries. It is anticipated that once fully
adopted, farmers will be able to reduce the cost of treating their animals by over US$10 million
annually. So far, a total of 842 pigs have been procured, and vaccination commenced.

Natural Resources Management
22. In Kenya’s dryland areas (Wote and Machakos Districts), the introduction of Napier
cultivated in pits and forage legumes Clitoria ternatea and Lablab purpureus on 15 farms have
enabled farmers to formulate feeding packages combining Napier and the forage legumes. Milk
yield has also increased by 51 percent (from 6.9 to10.4 litres/cow/day). This increased
production has resulted into an additional annual income of US$600/cow. Up to 50 households
who planted and fed Napier combined with conservation of fodder to ensure feed availability
throughout the year increased their milk yield by 2.5 litres/cow/day, resulting into an additional
annual income of US$403/animal. Similarly, the establishment of water harvesting facilities and
drip irrigation for vegetable production within the targeted Kenyan drylands enabled farmers to
generate gross income of up to US$160 from tomato production on small plots (150 m2) within 4
months. Economic analysis indicates that this venture has a potential of generating annual net
income of US$5,607/ha.

23. Promotion of sustainable NRM through effective governance and farmer-market linkages
encouraged a group of 20 farmers in Bungokho, Uganda to resort to planting improved
groundnuts (e.g. red beauty, serenut 2, serenut 3 and serenut 4). Through the use of artificial
fertilizers (applied at a rate of 100 kg SSP/ha) and manure, the yields increased from 750 kg/ha
in 2009 to the current 1,484 kg/ha for shelled nuts. This led to an increase of gross income
generated from US$506/ha (in 2009) to the current US$1,002/ha, leading to a net income of
US$437/ha (compared to US$9.3/ha earlier generated without fertilizer). As a result of these



                                                43
potential economic returns, the farmer groups have dedicated more land to the planting of the
groundnuts, and they have also resorted to preparing and selling groundnut paste.

24. In Ethiopia, a total of 22 households in the targeted project area of Adulala harvested 130 kg
of honey (worth US$630/month from 10 out of the installed 28 beehives). On the other hand, 720
farmers within the degraded hillside lands targeted for rehabilitation harvested and sold
pasture/grass, generating over US$11,000 per season.

25. Farmers in the arid and semi-arid lands have adopted the tumbukiza pits to recover crusted
lands; capture rain and surface/run-off water; protect seeds and organic matter against being
washed away; concentrate nutrient and water availability at the beginning of the rainy season;
and increase yields. Up to 3.2 tons/ha of maize production has been recorded in these pits
(compared to >0.5 tons/ha in adjacent fields without tumbukiza pits).

       On average, farmers are capable of having 1,730 – 1,850 tumbukiza pits per hectare
       (each measuring 90cm x 60cm x 60 cm (0.324 m2). So far, there are over 350 farmers
       with an average of 200 tumbukiza pits on their farms. An assortment of crops can be
       planted in these pits, including Napier grass, maize, and fruits (mango, orange, pawpaw,
       and bananas). Each pit carries 6 to 9 plants, thereby producing 50 kg of fresh Napier.
       Given that Napier productivity ranges from 2.1 – 6.5 tons of dry matter per ha, the
       targeted farmers harvested (and are capable of harvesting more than) 3 tons of dry
       matter. In some project sites, some farmers recorded productivity of more than 4 tons/ha
       during the dry season.

26. Water harvesting technologies has led to increased maize productivity from 1.2 to 3.2 tons/ha
in Kenya’s arid and semi lands (ASALs). In Rwanda, a total of 1.26 million litres of water were
harvested by the project implementers at farm level, enough to cultivate 3.24 ha of maize to
maturity.

27. Most farmers in Kenya embraced tied-ridging, agro-advisories, improved crop varieties, and
improved agronomic practices, thereby leading to good yields despite bad season. Maize yields
ranged from 1.2 to 3.2 tons/ha compared to baseline yield of less than 500 kg/ha. As a result of
this, over 70 percent of farmers are food- secure

28. ASARECA facilitated the development of the Land Care Ordinance in Bukwo. This is first
ordinance to be approved in the 7-year old district. The process employed started with the
sensitization of 89 key stakeholders on the need for a District Land Care Ordinance. Following
key presentations on the status of the district’s natural resource base, key innovations available
and the role of policy, the meeting overwhelmingly raised awareness and support for a land care
ordinance. The Business Committee of the District Council convened to develop an Order Paper,
and to invite the full District Council (comprising 32 Councilors) to move the motion for
formulation of the Bukwo District Land Care Bill for ordinance. Because the majority of the
Council had been part of the earlier sensitization process, the motion was seconded and the Bill
was assigned to the Production and Natural Resources Committee of the Council for review.
This committee revised the draft Bill which was received by the Council Session and tabled as
the Bukwo District (Land Care) Bill for Ordinance No.2/2013. Between February and October

                                               44
2013, the ordinance was made available for public review and comment. In October, the Bill was
subjected to a formal review process in the entire district’s sub-counties led by the district
technical team. The Bill was then debated by the District and approved as a land care ordinance
after the fourth session of Council. The Ordinance paves the way for landscape approach to
sustainable land management in the highland district. About 37 percent of the total land area in
Bukwo is characterized as severely degraded.

29. Through the application of response farming innovations, up to 500 smallholder farmers in
Ethiopia, Kenya and Madagascar who adopted the technologies realized over 50 percent yield
increment over and above the normal. The increase in yield is mainly attributed to farmers’
immediate responses to available information on climate provided through downscaled
forecasting. The increased yield resulted in households having more food for the family and
through sales, increased income.

30. Through the application of Integrated Soil Fertility Management (ISFM) approaches and
practices, a total of 600 smallholder farmers in Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania realized farm level
yield increases of between 30-70 percent. This was mainly attributed to the application of
fertilizers through microdosing, application of farmyard manure, proper management of crop
residues, promotion of fertilizer trees at farm level, and use of improved varieties.

31. Over 1,500 households have adopted water efficient technologies. This was achieved through
implementation of water productivity enhancement technologies at selected watersheds in
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, and Rwanda. Up to 5,000 hectares have been covered
through construction of appropriate water conservation and management structures within
selected watershed. The more preferred technologies included: water terraces, tied ridging, check
dams, siltation dams and on-farm tree establishment. These approaches have led to increased
amount of water available both at watershed and farm level to support agriculture. In addition,
drip irrigation has been promoted across the selected watersheds. Based on these interventions,
over 1,000 households who were dependent on food relief became food secure.

32. On the other hand, income-generating activities based on prudent management of soils, water
and forests have been initiated in Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, and Uganda through the application
of economic incentive-based measures. These activities include: bee keeping, value addition
bananas, groundnuts and African Indigenous Vegetables (AIVs). The noted yield increase in
these commodities is attributed to the promotion of water efficient technologies, soil fertility
management approaches and formation of innovation platforms. It is estimated that
approximately 550 households are engaged in these activities with a combined earning of over
US$10,000 per year. In addition, over the past two years, 720 farmers in Ethiopia had an annual
income of US$9,000 through pasture production from hillside conservation initiatives. Increase
in production and income is anticipated.

33. Through the afforestation initiatives, over 570 ha have been brought under tree cover in
selected fragile areas, besides planting of over 1 million seedlings in Kenya, Rwanda, and
Uganda to ensure soil fertility enhancement, fodder and fuelwood production, as well as for
construction and shade.



                                               45
Capacity Development

34. Through short- and long-term training, a total of 65,000 stakeholders were supported
(including over 48 percent of women). The cadre of researchers (masters and PhD) from
different countries who have been trained within and outside Africa has contributed to new
knowledge and skills pool. For example, on her return to ISABU after receiving her MSc in Plant
Breeding, Micheline Inamahoro was appointed Head of the National Biotechnology
Laboratory& Screen houses. She has won grants from the Belgian Technical Corporation to
collect samples of potato countrywide, besides initiating research activities in the laboratories to
come up with disease free coffee varieties and setting up banana experiments in the laboratories.
On the other hand, after obtaining his MSc in range management, Manzi Maximillian was
appointed the Director of Livestock Research and Extension in Burundi.

Policy Analysis & Advocacy

35. Through the support of ASARECA, a total of 11 standards for cassava (7), potato (4) and
related products were harmonized in the East African Region. The standards have been approved
by the East African Standards Committee (EASC) and subsequently declared by the East African
Council of Ministers for use as East African Standards. In addition, the EASC identified 13 other
standards and codes of practice to help in the implementation of the harmonized standards, and
to assist the sector in achieving its full potential, e.g. by eliminating technical barriers to trade
(TBTs). The standards are to be applied in farm level production, primary processing, factory-
level processing and trade enhancement in the EAC, thereby ensuring enhanced utilization of
cassava and potato products, improving farm level productivity, as well as providing new
impetus to intra-regional trade.

Approaches and innovation for scaling up technologies

36. Through the testing of 2 models for farmer-led seed enterprises, namely the private sector-
mediated model based on contract farming as well as the Quality Declared Seed (QDS), farmers
produced and sold certified seed of various indigenous vegetables, thereby earning annual
average incomes of US$3,500/acre. Under QDS model, farmers were able to produce quality
seeds with a mean purity and germination rate of 92.3 – 99.0 percent, thus fetching an average
selling price of US$71/kg for African eggplant and US$61/Kg of African nightshade.

37. As part of ensuring effective marketing of products, ASARECA supported the development
of market linkages for OFSP root and vine producers in Western Kenya. Through collaboration
with Farm Concern International (FCI), root producers were linked to traders in Eldoret and
Kitale towns. A total of US$ 6,100 was generated. As a result, the Kenya’s Ministry of Special
Programmes agreed to improve the OFSP collection centers. On the other hand, other root
producers continued to sell their products to Siwonko processors and earned US$3,750. The vine
multipliers were also linked to the One-Acre project where they sold vines worth US$7,000. It is
worth noting that 125g of OFSP provides children with over twice the recommended daily
allowance of Vitamin A.




                                                 46
List of Definitions

Access/Accessibility
In the ASARECA context, access refers to the ease that people have in obtaining relevant
products and services, such as technologies, innovations and management practices (TIMPs). In
this case, access to TIMPs includes how to get them, where to get them, how to use them, and
what impact would be achieved after using them. On the other hand, access to information refers
to stakeholders receiving and understanding the disseminated information products as well as
delivery pathways.

Similarly, accessibility refers to the extent to which organizational, sectoral and structural
arrangements facilitate participation of key stakeholders in the project and program. Participation
is based on program strategies, themes and priorities. ASARECA views accessibility through
assessing
      Whether key stakeholders know about the available and/or existing TIMP (i.e. by
      determining the number of farmers having had contact with extension agents in the past
      quarter;
      If these services and products are physically accessible to them (e.g. by determining the
      time taken and distance covered to reach these services and products); and
      Whether the stakeholders can afford these services and products.

Agricultural Technology
1. Agricultural technology refers to products, services, techniques, and activities whose use
   results in increased plant and livestock productivity and higher yield improvements. This
   definition includes, sustainable agricultural practices, efficient soil and water management,
   improvements in storage, handling and packaging of agricultural produce, enhanced
   processing, and other agricultural‐related processes. Agricultural technologies can be used
   individually or in combination.

2. ASARECA broadly categorizes technology under the following themes and sub-themes (see
   Box 1 for details):
      a) Crop Technologies;
      b) Livestock Technologies; and
      c) Other Types of Technology.


                                        Box 1: Categories of TIMPs
Crop Technologies:
  1. Genetic resources including any material of plant, animal, microbial or other origin containing
     functional units of heredity, germplasm of plants, animals or other organisms containing useful
     characters of actual or potential value, and or genetic materials, genes, markers, DNA sequences,
     breeds of livestock, varieties of crops, collections of crops and their wild relatives.

   2.   New varieties that are distinct, uniform, stable, high-yielding, and resistant to pests, diseases, and
        drought, and that have the potential of regional adaptability to different environments and growing
        conditions.

   3.   New breeds that are registered and released. They can be natural from another country, and have a
        higher genetic value (estimated breeding value (EBV)) in terms of growth rate, or production.

                                                      47
   4.   Cropping Systems refer to the sum total of all of the production practices on a particular field or
        farm. These may include the types of crops grown, their planting sequence, time, rate and pattern of
        planting, tillage, nutrient, irrigation, and pest control management strategies. It also refers to a
        systematic way of growing crops so that they interact with available resources and managerial skills
        of the practitioner (farmer) for profitable and sustainable crop production in any given environment.
        Cropping systems include: crop rotation, multiple cropping, mixed cropping, strip intercropping,
        planting for genetic diversity, etc.

   5.   Plant protection (e.g. IPM), including weed and pest control, agrochemicals.

   6.   Crop Management Practices.

Livestock Technology:
   1. Genetic resources including any material of animal, microbial or other origin containing functional
      units of heredity, germplasm of animals or other organisms containing useful characters of actual or
      potential value, and or genetic materials, genes, markers, DNA sequences and breeds of livestock.

   2.   Animal husbandry practices, including activities, tasks, schedules and establishments set up to
        ensure effective production and efficient productivity of domestic animals and profitable marketing
        of their products.

   3.   Livestock breeding focusing on maximum returns to the breeder (e.g. semen from progeny-tested
        sires used for artificial insemination), vaccines, etc.

   4.   New breeds refer to those that are registered and released. They can be natural from another
        country, and have a higher genetic value (estimated breeding value (EBV)) in terms of growth rate,
        or production of eggs, meat, or milk.

   5.   Forage and Range Management

Other Types of Technology (e.g. Mechanical & Management)
  1. Farming Systems refer to "the entire complex of development, management and allocation of
     resources as well as decisions and activities which, within an operational farm unit or a combination
     of such units results in agricultural production, and the processing and marketing of the products".

   2.   Soil and Water Management Practices refer to the strategies and mechanisms of ensuring that soil
        disturbance and loss, through runoff or otherwise is minimized. It also refers to proper water
        conservation systems within the farmlands and the catchment areas.

   3.   Farm Mechanization refers to the use of tractors, harvesters and equipment for cultivation,
        planting and feed conservation. Machinery and equipment used for irrigation, livestock production,
        grain drying and storage, and transport are not included.

   4.   Agroforestry refers to a dynamic, ecologically based, natural resources management system that,
        through the integration of trees in farms and in the agricultural landscape, diversifies and sustains
        production for increased social, economic and environmental benefits for land users at all levels
        (ICRAF 1996). The trees are deliberately grown in association with crops and/or forage or
        livestock.



                                                      48
   5.   Post-harvest Technology such as handling, cooling, cleaning, sorting, transporting, drying, storing
        and packaging.

   6.   Farm Management refers to decisions about choice of activity on the farms, e.g. crop grown, use
        of chemical inputs, labor, animal traction, machinery, etc. It affects the yield of a crop either
        through soil management (nutrients, water) or through crop husbandry (weeding, crop protection,
        harvesting, etc.)

   7.   Methodologies (e.g. on-farm demonstrations; field days; radio messages, leaflets, etc.) used to
        demonstrate the TIMPs with regard to implementation, performance and superiority over alternative
        technologies.

   8.   Gathering practices, such as methods applied in obtaining animals, insects, fish, fruits and crops
        from their natural habitats.

   9.   Protocols, including sets of agreed upon and openly published and distributed standards that enable
        different firms or organizations to manufacture compatible devices/products to the same
        specifications. All devices made under the same protocol work with one another without any
        adjustment or modification.

   10.Tools,    instruments, implements, utensils and appliances:
              Instruments, especially small precision tools used by trained professionals – e.g. sterilized
               scalpel.
              Implements such as rakes, hoes, etc.
              Appliances such as store selling toasters and other appliances.

   11. Laboratory    techniques: This includes the sum of procedures, methods and tests performed in the
        laboratory and used on natural sciences such as in breeding, transformation, genetics, chemistry,
        biology, physics and in examination of microbiological, cytological, chemical, and biochemical
        specimens, normal and pathological experiments in order to conduct an experiment. Techniques
        may involve the use of complex laboratory equipment such as laboratory glassware and electrical
        devices.

   12. Equipment.     This may include apparatus, devises, machines, tools, gear, materials, vehicles,
        outfits, software, etc. needed to undertake or to perform the intended service.

Demand driven Technologies, Innovations and Management Practices (TIMPs)
1. The demand-driven technologies, innovations and management practices refer to “what
   people need”. They are generated to clearly respond to identified agricultural need or priority
   concern of the stakeholders as well as to the needs of the ECA sub-region. They look at what
   the consumer and market place “wants”, including attributes related to quality, quantity and
   variety (as spelt out in the ASARECA’s Program and Unit Strategies and Priorities.

2. These TIMPs are expected to be in line with the expressed needs of the development
   domains, available tools/methodologies, agricultural enterprises and themes and priority
   areas demanded by the different levels/categories of stakeholders e.g. breeders, farmers,
   researchers, professors, etc. They should be generated for specific sites where the need is
   required. It is noteworthy that there are some demanded technologies that may not easily be
   demanded by farmers, but are very important intermediaries in generating the

                                                      49
   technology/innovations needed by the farmer. These include: drought tolerance genes;
   markers for genotyping and/or marker assisted breeding; gene manipulation for CBSD or
   studying the sequence of CBSV.

Innovation
1. An innovation is the implementation of a new or significantly improved product (good or
   service), or process, a new marketing method, or a new organizational method in business
   practices, workplace organization or external relations … A common feature of an
   innovation is that it must have been implemented. A new or improved product is
   implemented when it is introduced on the market. New processes, marketing methods or
   organizational methods are implemented when they are brought into actual use in the firm’s
   operations (OECD/Eurostat, 2005).

2. Innovation is the use of knowledge (indigenous and exogenous) in a place or by people in a
   way that it has not been used before. To qualify as an innovation, it must be replicable at an
   economical cost and must satisfy a specific need. Innovation involves deliberate application
   of information, imagination, and initiative in deriving greater or different value from
   resources, and encompasses all processes by which new ideas are generated and converted
   into useful products.

New Technologies, Innovations and Management Practices (TIMPs)
1. ASARECA recognizes the main action agents for technology development and dissemination.
   These include: (i) national research systems, (ii) public extension systems, (iii) universities,
   especially faculties of agriculture, (iv) farmers and farm households, (v) service institutions
   such as seed, fertilizer and pesticide distributors, veterinary services, credit agencies, and
   commodity traders, and (vi) government policy-making bodies for process, marketing, etc.
   The TIMPs are regarded as new if they have not previously been in use in the target area.
   Focus is put on the number of TIMPs that are:

       Under research/development: A technology, innovation or management practice can
        be termed as under research if it has not gone through research phase and made ready for
        testing before transfer to other people for adoption. It looks at the number of
        technologies, innovations, management practices and products screened during research
        phase.

       Under field-testing: These are TIMPs that have gone through screening during research
        phase and made ready for testing before transfer to other people for adoption. It may
        involve movement from on-station to on-farm research, through to on-farm verification,
        demonstrations and pilot production in village projects.

       Made available for transfer/uptake: The TIMPs have been approved by appropriate
        technical institutions responsible for authorizing its use, tested by farmers on the farms,
        and are ready for use by the stakeholders. Uptake follows organized field days and visits,
        and engages research scientists, extension specialists, farmers, seed production
        specialists, government officials, and representatives from the concerned regional



                                                50
        organizations, and representatives from the universities and development partners. On
        the other hand, TIMPs made available to uptake are those where:
        Research on the new technology has proven net benefits (e.g. the ex-ante analyses);
        The new technology has been approved by the appropriate technical institutions
           responsible for authorizing its use;
        Technical extension services are capable of providing extension services pertaining to
           the new technology (capable here, means having a complete enough understanding of
           the technical requirements of the technology to be able to impart that knowledge, not
           the resources required to disseminate the technology); and
        Any policy/policies authorizing the use of the new technology has/have been adopted
           by the host government. In the realm of agriculture, the measure therefore includes
           those technologies released by research organizations for uptake by extension
           services, and by the extension services for uptake by farmers.

Uptake pathways refer to channels and processes through which the technologies and
innovations reach the intended users. Uptake channels include the private and public extension
system, farmer organizations, input distributors, and any other institutional arrangement
available through which technology, knowledge and information can reach the end user.




                                              51
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Impact Evaluation 2014 (IE) carried out an overall assessment of the performance of OP-1
programs based on the findings from the household survey, using a Cost-Benefit analysis
approach. This compared the benefits accruing to program beneficiaries with costs of the
program.

Estimated program benefits

Program benefits in terms of change in incomes of ASARECA beneficiaries over the program
period were estimated using net valuation of agricultural production (see Section 4.4 of IE). This
estimated the change in the value of crops and livestock products between 2008 and 2012.

ASARECA project beneficiaries surveyed reported an average increase of US$106 in value of
their net agricultural production from 2008 (US$940) to 2012 (US$1047). Over the same period,
non-beneficiaries reported a decrease US$166 in net agricultural production value. This gives a
net difference of $272 between beneficiary and non-beneficiaries.

Extrapolated across all ASARECA beneficiaries adopting new TIMPs (270,000 households, i.e.
64 percent of stakeholder accessing new TIMPs), this represents a net increase in agricultural
production value of US$73.44 million (change in beneficiaries compared to non-beneficiaries). It
should be noted that benefits shown are for one year only (2012 compared to 2008).

Benefit-cost estimates

ASARECA OP-1 total program costs were estimated in the region of $90,000,000 (program
data).

Comparing the valuation of benefits, US$73.44 million, against estimated program costs
indicates that in around 1.25 years the program would have covered operational costs. Thus the
benefit-cost ratio would be expected to be positive by the second quarter of 2013. If similar
incomes are achieved in 2013, benefits to ASARECA beneficiary households could be expected
to exceed costs by US$145 to US$90 (not discounted), by December 2013.

The analysis assumes a constant level of benefits to beneficiaries. While projects surveyed were
generally those expected to show impact (the majority containing an up-scaling component), in
many cases benefits had only just begun accruing to beneficiaries during the reporting period
(2012) and were expected to be higher in 2013. Changing the assumptions would change the
project pay-back period and/or benefit-cost ratio. Even with quite large changes in assumptions
(i.e. reducing overall benefits by 40 percent), returns to the investment in OP-I look positive in
2014.




                                               52
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
             Names                                       Title                                 Unit

Helmut Albert                      Senior Agriculture Economist                            AFTA1
Irene Bomani                       Operations Analyst                                      AFTA2
Howard Bariira Centenary           Senior Procurement Specialist                           AFTPE
Nicolette K. DeWitt                Lead Counsel                                            LEGOP
Tekola Dejene                      Consultant                                              AFTA3
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus              Lead Specialist                                         OPSOR
Malathi Jayawickrama               Senior Operations Officer (ICR Author)                  ECSAR
Jacob Kampen                       Consultant                                              AFTA1
Paul Kato Kamuchwezi               Financial Management Specialist                         AFTME
Bremala Malli                      Senior Operations Officer                               AFTA2
Paul Jonathan Martin               Sector Leader                                           AFTSN
Matthew A. McMahon                 Consultant                                              AFTA1
Elizabeth Annet Mutesi             Procurement Analyst                                     CAFAF
Edith Ruguru Mwenda                Senior Counsel                                          LEGAM
Michael Okuny                      Financial Management Specialist                         AFTME
Luis M. Schwarz                    Senior Finance Officer                                  CTRLA
Wendy A. Wiltshire                 Consultant                                              AFTA2



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                        USD Thousands (including travel
                                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                                   and consultant costs)
Lending*
FY09                                                          1.7                      235
                                     Total:                   1.7                        235
Supervision/ICR*
FY09                                                      39.4
FY10                                                      16.5                           146
FY11                                                      28.2                           183
FY12                                                      52.6                           301
FY13                                                      39.8                           134
FY14                                                      53.7                           242
                                     Total:              230.2                          1006
*Funded by TF092895, except for USD 10 (‘000) in FY09.




                                                         53
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The Impact Evaluation (IE, February 2014) assessed the overall quality of the OP-I design and
implementation arrangements, and the performance of ASARECA in meeting its Development
Objective as stipulated in the OP-1 (2008-2013) and Results Framework. The impact on
beneficiaries was the central component of the IE, and involved measuring changes in the well-
being of households that can be attributed to a particular project, program or policy. The
complete evaluation included qualitative and quantitative methods: desk review; key informant
interviews of around 50 project stakeholders (with visits to 7 countries-- Uganda, Tanzania,
Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, Ethiopia and Sudan); focus group discussions with beneficiaries and
stakeholders; household survey of project beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries, including 1,072
farmers in four countries (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda: 25 percent from female-
headed households).12 The IE survey covered information over two years: 2008 and 2012.

Summary of the Impact Evaluation’s Key findings:

Overall Programme Goal: The value of agricultural output has increased for the ECA sub-region
over the program period, with three countries exceeding the CAADP agricultural growth target
of 6 percent per annum: Rwanda (12.4 percent); Kenya (7.8 percent) and Tanzania (7.8 percent).
Ethiopia and Eritrea recorded 5.8 and 5 percent respectively. Average increase in the value of
total agricultural output for all ASARECA countries 2008-2012 was 20.5 percent; an increase in
real terms of 5.1 percent per annum since the start of OP-1. However, it is not possible determine
the specific contribution of ASARECA OP-1 to changes in total agricultural output in the region
due to the presence of multiple factors affecting agricultural production, including environmental
factors, policy changes and other developmental interventions.

Changes in national average yields of key crops between 2008 and 2012 for ASARECA
countries show more variability (from FAO Figures). Average regional yields for maize have
increased by 11.6 percent over the period (3 percent per year), with increases of 8.6 percent for
rice and 8.4 percent for sweet potato (over 2 percent p.a) and 4.5 percent for beans (dry).
However, cassava yields fell in 5 countries with a regional decline in 5.9 percent (mainly due to
disease) whilst national yields of green beans fell in Kenya in 2011 resulting in a large average
regional decline of 40 percent over the period.

Beneficiaries have achieved increases in yields of key crops of most projects surveyed,
especially Quality Protein Maize (QPM), Sorghum-Legume, Bean Innovation (Uganda) and
Integrated Water Management (Kenya). However, there are large yield variations between
farmers, with a considerable number of beneficiaries not yet seeing increased yields. The nature
and sources of variation need to be investigated by projects and addressed in OP-2.

Program Purpose: Stakeholders accessing new Technologies, Innovations and Management
Practices (TIMPs) between 2009-2103 are estimated at 422,176, exceeding the target of 265,964.


12
   For detailed results and methodology, see, ‘Impact Evaluation of ASARECA Operational Plan 1 and Development Objectives
and Documentation of Lessons Learned’, Final Report, Natural Resources Institute, University of Greenwich with Africa
Innovations Institute, February 2014.

                                                          54
Based on process monitoring and evaluation by the ASARECA program management units, the
percentage of stakeholders adopting TIMPs is estimated at 64 percent (against the target of 74
percent).

Cash incomes of beneficiaries increased notably for half of projects surveyed. This is significant
given the short time period since taking up the technologies. Averaged across all projects
surveyed, incomes from sales of crops and livestock have increased by an average of $388 per
beneficiary between 2008 and 2012. Average incomes for non-beneficiaries fell by $29. These
figures indicate that ASARECA project beneficiary households on average have secured sizable
increases in cash income over the program period.

Total value of net agricultural output (crops and livestock) has increased in real terms from 2008
to 2012 for beneficiary households surveyed from $940 to $1047: an average of $106. By
contrast non-beneficiary households saw an average fall of $166. Extrapolated to all ASARECA
program beneficiaries adopting TIMPS (270,000), this measure represents an increase in net crop
production value of US$73.4 million. This is a positive finding given the relatively low level of
investment in up-scaling technologies under OP-1.

Both the value of agricultural production and cash incomes from crops and livestock have
increased over the life of the project for beneficiaries on average. However, incomes from sales
of produce have increased more than total production values, indicating that beneficiaries have
become more successful in engaging with markets over the project period.

Economic returns to the $90 million investment in ASARECA OP-1 break-even by mid-2013.
Assuming 60 percent of projects in ASARECA’s portfolio achieved a similar performance to the
projects surveyed, the investment as a whole is expected to be highly positive.

Food and nutrition security is integral to household wellbeing. Eradication of hunger is a central
tenet of ASARECA’s mission. The IE used Food availability within the household from any
source in 2008 and 2012 as an indicator of household Food Security. Nutrition Security was
assessed by Food Groups consumed by household members in the past 24 hours.

Overall, there has been an increase in the proportion of food secure beneficiary households over
the program period from 74 percent to 81 percent (IE, Table 14 on p. 41). Over the same period
the proportion of food secure non-beneficiaries has increased from 78 to 79 percent. This
indicates a positive impact of the projects on food security. However, there were differences in
household food security status across countries and projects.

A snapshot of household nutrition intake was assessed by analyzing food consumed by
household members over the previous 24 hours in terms of the main food groups: Predominantly
Carbohydrates, Protein, Vitamins and Fats (Table 15). This assessment provides a snapshot of
household food intake (Note: no baseline food intake or anthropometric measures were
available). Overall, 56 percent of beneficiary households were found to consume from all food
groups compared to 52 percent of non-beneficiary households, although the difference was not
highly significant.



                                               55
ASARECA has been successful in achieving a high participation rate of women and vulnerable
households in projects. There has been less success in securing the participation of youth as
direct project beneficiaries. This needs to be addressed through the development of a Youth
mainstreaming program strategy for OP-2.

Spillover effects were found to be highly positive for the project sites surveyed. Average pass-on
rates to non-project farmers was 7 for each beneficiary household. This needs to be verified
through focused Uptake Studies under OP-2.

Level of satisfaction with technologies and innovations is estimated by ASARECA as 71 percent
(compared to an 81 percent target). However, the evaluation team found almost 80 percent of the
beneficiaries interviewed were satisfied with the benefits from the technologies promoted by
ASARECA projects. Benefits to farmers included: increased production, income and food
security. Improved nutrition was not a significant benefit.

National governments approved 16 reforms of policies, laws, regulations and procedures to date
(against a target of 28). ASARECA, through the Policy Analysis and Advocacy Programme
(PAAP) has contributed significantly to harmonization of seed laws and regulations, especially
those on seed trade, crop variety releases, product quality standards, exchange of germplasm, and
performance trials.

ASARECA has contributed to capacity development of research processes in member countries
at various levels. 150 students (96 men and 54 women) have benefited from long-term training
including Masters and PhDs. This has increased the capacity of the National Agricultural
Research Systems (NARS), making a significant difference to the weaker NARS and to key
areas of other NARS. However, continuing support for recent post-graduates is recommended,
particularly for the weaker NARS to close the gap across the region.




                                               56
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                        57
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The ASARECA Secretariat’s comments on the ICR are as follows:

We have gone through the implementation completion report and found it to be very well written and 
very good.  Four of us (Enock, Patrick, Francis and myself) went through and found that it gives a very 
good representation of ASARECA OP1 supported under MDTF. 
  
We have only made a suggestion to change paragraph 92 as indicated on page 21; and some editorial in 
paragraph 80. 
  
The rest are minor editorial changes that are given in track changes for paragraph 50, 66, 83, 89 and 96. 
  
With Warm Regards 




Fina A. Opio, PhD
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ASARECA
Plot 15, John Babiiha Road
P. O. Box 765
Entebbe, Uganda




                                                   58
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                         59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank/Development Partner Documents
Aide Memoires of Implementation Support Missions, 2008 to 2014.

Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA),
Joint Mission of Development Partners, Reports 2009 – 2013.

ASARECA Financial Management Review of Quarterly Interim Financial Report, December
2013.

Grant Agreement, Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central
Africa (ASARECA) Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant TF093070.

Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports, 2008 to 2014.

Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Grant to Association for Strengthening Agricultural
Research in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA), October 4, 2012.
OPCS: Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, August 2006 (updated
11/10/2010).

Other Documents

CAADP Pillar IV Multi-Donor Trust Fund for ASARECA, November 26, 2008 (used as the
Project Appraisal Document for the MDTF).

Evaluation of USAID/East Africa Support to the Association for Strengthening Agricultural
Research in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA), USAID, August, 2011.

Impact Evaluation of ASARECA Operational Plan 1 and Development Objectives and
Documentation of Lessons Learned, Final Report, Natural Resources Institute, University of
Greenwich with Africa Innovations Institute.

Project Completion Review, Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and
Central Africa (ASARECA) – Project 114115, DFID, January 2014.




                                              60
Annex 10. MAP




                61
