OFFICIAL         1      q093020
DOCUMENTS i
The World Bank                               *      etaw^              (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION        U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
December 24, 2013
Dr. Fina Opio
Executive Director
Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research
in Eastern and Central Africa
Plot 15 John Babijha Road
P.O. Box 765
Entebbe
Republic of Uganda
Re:   Multi Donor Trust Fund Grant for Support to the Association for
Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa (Grant
No. TF093070)
Fifth Amendment to Letter Agreement
Dear Madam:
We refer to the above-mentioned Letter Agreement (the "Agreement") dated
November 3, 2008, between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the International Development Association (collectively, "World Bank"), acting as
administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi Donor Trust Fund for
support to ASARECA ("ASARECA Trust Fund"), and the Association for Strengthening
Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa ("ASARECA" or "Recipient"), as
amended. We also refer to the understanding reached with the Recipient to: (i) provide
additional financing in the amount of $12,934,641 for new activities under the Project, bringing
the total Grant amount to $70,100,895; and (ii) extend the Closing Date of the Project.
Therefore:
1.    The first paragraph of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Association for
Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa ("ASARECA" or
"Recipient"), I am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the International Development Association (collectively,
"World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under
the Multi Donor Trust Fund for support to ASARECA (the "ASARECA Trust Fund"),
proposes to extend to the Recipient a grant in an amount not to exceed seventy million
one hundred thousand eight hundred ninety five United States Dollars
(US$70,100,895) ("Grant") on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
letter agreement ("Agreement"), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the
financing of the project described in the Annex ("Project"). This Grant is funded out of


﻿ASARECA Grant No. TF093070
the abovementioned multi-donor trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic
contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in
the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject
to the availability of the said funds."
2.    A new sub-paragraph (h) is added to Section 2.01 of the Annex to the Agreement
to read as follows:
"6(h)    ASARECA's Knowledge and Information
Carrying out by ASARECA of a program aimed at establishing a knowledge and
information hub with a view to increase competitiveness of the agricultural sector in
Eastern and Central Africa, such program to include: (i) generating and exchanging
knowledge; (ii) networking and developing new ideas; (iii) promoting technologies,
innovation and management practices; (iv) collecting, analyzing and producing data
and information to support discourse and advocacy for agriculture and related trade
policy issues; and (v) building platforms to generate and disseminate knowledge and
information acquired, and facilitate learning."
3.    The table set forth in Section 3.01 of the Annex to the Agreement is amended to read
as follows:
Category               Amount of the Grant         Percentage of
Allocated          Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD)          Financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, services, and Training
and Workshops for Sub-projects           44,163,564                  100%
under Part (a) of the Project
(2) Goods, works, consultants'
services (including audits), Training                                100%
and Workshops, and Operating Costs
under Parts (b) to (h) of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT                       70,100,895
4.    Section 2.10 a (i) through a (iii) of the Annex to the Agreement is amended as
follows:
(i) Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated January 2011 ("Procurement Guidelines"), in the case of goods and works;


﻿ASARECA Grant No. TF093070
(ii) Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 2011 ("Consultant Guidelines") in the case of consultants' services; and
(iii)the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the procurement
plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in
accordance with paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines ("Procurement Plan").
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing
and dating both originals of this amendment letter and returning one original to us for our
records. Upon receipt by the World Bank of one of the originals of this amendment letter
duly countersigned by you, this amendment letter will become effective as of the date of your
countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
or Colin Bruce
Director, Strategy, Operations and Regional Integration
Africa Region
AGREED:
Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research
in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA)
By                0
NameFI14
Title        CA      IV      I   RE4- I vz
Date: 3         ~~


