RESTRICTED
FILE      JUl'1                                                  Report No. P-567
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
STATE OF UGANDA
FOR A
UGANDA TEA GROWERS CORPORATION PROJECT
August 30, 1967



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A FROPCSED
DEVELORENT CREDIT TO THE STATE OF UGANDA
FCR A UGANDA TEA GROVERS CORPORATION PROJFCT
L.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
c.edit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $3.4 million
to the State of Uganda.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In late 1964, the Uganda Government requested assistance from IDA
and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) to help finance its
program for the development of tea production by African smallholders. An
appraisal mission visited Uganda in April/May 1965 and recommended that the
proposed tea development program would be suitable for an IDA credit. Credit
negotiations were held in Washington in October/November 1965 with a Uganda
Government delegation headed by lMr. M. M. Ngobi, the Minister of Agriculture.
Representatives of CDC conducted simultaneous loan negotiations in Washing-
ton with the same delegation. It was agreed that IDA would lend exclusively
for field development, while CDC would lend for both field development
and for processing facilities.
3.        There were initial difficulties during negotiations with the
Ugandan authorities, for whom this was the first experience after independence
of doing business with the Bank. The further delay in bringing forward
this project to the xcecutive Directors was mainly due to constitutional
problems in Uganda and difficulties experienced in appointing key project
staff. M1issions to update the appraisal report were sent to Uganda in
July 1966 and February 1967.
4.        This is the first tea development project proposed for IDA
financing in Uganda and would be the third IDA credit to Uganda, increas-
ing the total IDA financing in that country to $18.4 million. Prior to
becoming independent, Uganda had received a loan from the Bank amounting
to $8.4 million which was guaranteed by the United Kingdom. The follow-
ing is a summary statement of the Bank loan and IDA credits to Uganda as
of July 31, 1967:
Loan or                                              Amount (US $ million)
Credit No.     Year     Borrower        Purpose      Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
279-UG         1961     Uganda     Electric Power     8.               -
101-UJG        1967     Uganda     Education                 10.0     10.0
108-UG         1967     Uganda     Roads                      5.0      5.0
Total (less cancellations)                   W7-   _1.
of which has been repaid                   1.1
Total now outstanding                        7.3
Amount sold                        8.3
of which has been repaid         1.1       7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA               0.1    15.0
Total undisbursed                                            15.0



- 2 -
5.        In addition to the above loan and credits, the Bank has made three
loans to the East African Common Services Authority (FACSA), of which two
were for Railways and Harbors and the third for Telecommunications. Each
one is guaranteed jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with
the United Kingdom also as guarantor for the first loan. The status of these
three loans as of July 31, 1967 was as follows:
(US $ million)
Nio.       Year     Borrower           Purpose            Bank      Undisbursed
110-EPA    1955     EACSA       Railways and Harbors      24.0
428-EA     1965     EACSA       Railways and Harbors      38.0         22.3
483-EA     1967     EACSA       Telecommunications        13.0         13.0
Total (less cancellations)
of which has been repaid                     11.8
Total now outstanding                          63.2
Amount sold                          23.7
of which has been repaid          11.6       12.1
Total now held by Bank                         51.1
Total undisbursed                                           35.3
6.        Disbursements of the 1965 loan for railways and harbors (No. 428-EA)
have been rather slow so far because most of them are made on delivery of the
wagons and other equipment, some 12 to 18 months after the orders are placed.
These deliveries will begin shortly and the entire loan is expected to be
disbursed by mid-1968 as originally planned.
7.        IFC has made one investment in Uganda in M.ulco Textiles Ltd., in
1964. The investment totalled U.S. $3.51 million equivalent, of which $2.80
million was loan and $0.65 million equity. As of June 30, 1967, $3.1 million
had been disbursed. $70,000 is a standby commitment.
8.        A ranching project has recently been appraised and an application
for assistance for an agricultural credit project is under study. Applica-
tions are also likely for further education and roads projects.
PART II - DESCRIPTION CF THE PROPCSED CREDIT
9.        Borrower:                    State of Uganda
Beneficiary:                Uganda Tea Growers Corporation (UTGC)
Amount:                      The equivalent in various currencies
of $3.4 million.
Purpose:                    To help finance (a) the planting of some
9,700 acres of smallholder tea in the
period 1966-1970, and (b) the provision
of services to these smallholdings and
to some 4,000 acres of smallholder tea
planted prior to 1966.



-3-
Amortization:              50 years, including 10-year period
of grace; repayment to be in 80
installments, 1/2t of the principal
amount to be repaid semi-annually
beginning August 1, 1977 and ending
February 1, 1987 and 1-1/2% semi-
annually thereafter to February 1,
2017.
Service CharRe:            3/4  of 1% per annum on the principal
amount of the credit withdrawn and
outstanding.
Relending Terms:           $2.6 million will be relent to UTGC
at 5% interest per annum. Repayment
will be over 20 years, including a
6-year grace period.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Uganda Tea Growers Corporation
Project - Uganda" (tJo. TO-500b) on the proposed project is attached (No. 1).
11.       Nearly 90 percent of the present tea acreage of about 26,000
acres in Uganda has been planted by large estates owned and managed by
Drivate companies and by Agricultural Enterprises Limited (AEL), a sub-
sidiary of the Government-owned Uganda Development Corporation (UDC).
However, emphasis is now being given by the Government to expanding tea
growing in the African smallholder areas: in many regions tea is the only
practicable cash crop that will enable subsistence farmers to achieve a
better standard of living. The project for which the IDA credit is proposed
will provide for the Dlanting of some 9,700 acres of tea over the five-
year period 1966-70. About 5,500 smallholder African farmers are expected
to participate in the scheme. It is estimated that, when the tea bushes
are mature, the project would contribute annually about 10 million pounds
of tea to Uganda's total tea output, which was 25 million pounds in 1966.
12.       The principal responsibility for the execution of the project
would rest with the Uganda Tea Growers Corporation, a statutory body
established in 1966 for this purpose. Under its constitution, UTGC has
wide powers to organize and supervise tea planting by smallholders. The
Government has, under a Supervision Agreement with UTOC, undertaken to
ensure that it has an experienced and competent field staff. UTGC secures
the supply of planting material and fertilizer for irmature tea, and makes
this available to smallholders under credit arrangements. It supervises
smallholders' tea cultivation and organizes and supervises tea growers'
cooperatives. UTGC arranges for the processing of the smallholders' leaf
and organizes and finances its collection, inspection and transportation
to the factories. The Government has undertaken to construct and maintain
the roads needed to enable UTGC to collect green leaf from growers and to
deliver it to the factories.



- 4 -
13.       The estimated total investment cost of the field sector of the
project (including the capital equipment for leaf collection, nurseries
expenses, planting material and fertilizers during the initial four-year
development period after each planting, the cost of a training center, and
UJTGC's head office expenditures) is US $6.4 million equivalent.  Of this
the IDA credit would cover US $3.4 million and a loan from the CDC £301,000
($8h3,000); the balance would be provided by the Government, UTGC revenues
an.d the smallholders themselves.  The foreign exchange component of the
total investment is estimated at $1.2 million or 19 percent. The IDA credit,
which would cover 53 percent of the total investment, would therefore include
a substantial amount of local expenditure financing, but this is considered
appropriate in view of the scarcity of domestic resources (see also paragraph
25 below).
14.       The proceeds from the IDA credit would be devoted in the amount of
$800,000 to cover 60 percent of expenditure being incurred by the Government
for staff seconded to UTGC during the development period. The balance of
the credit, US $2.6 million, would be lent by the Government to UTGC, and
would be used together with the proceeds from the CDC loan to UTGC, in the
proportion of 3:1, to cover UTGC's net expenditures, which would represent
the net capital requirement during the investment period after taking into
account the proceeds of levies and certain other receipts. UTGC would repay
the sub-loan from the Government over a 20-year period, including a six-year
period of grace, with interest at 5 percent per annum. The CDC loan would
be repayable over the same period (see paragraph 4.34 of the Appraisal
Report for the interest terms). The proposed credit involves disbursement
of about $200,000 against expenditures incurred on the investment program
since September 1966.
15.       The factory sector of the project, which is to provide the process-
ing facilities for smaIlholder tea, cannot be defined precisely at present
because the size and number of the factories have to be determined in the
light of recent technological advances which make possible more economical
units than hitherto envisaged. The investment cost is estimated to be not
more than US $5.0 million (£1.8 million). CDC has expressed its intention,
if certain conditions are met, to finance up to 50% but not exceeding
£900,000 of this cost. The Government has undertaken to provide the remain-
ing funds required for this purpose. IDA would not contribute to the
financing of the factory sector of the project.
16.       Under powers conferred by the Uganda Tea Growers Act, 1966, UTGC
will deduct from payments to smallholders a "capital" levy of 10 cents per
pound of green leaf and a "revenue" levy of 7 cents per pound.   These
revenues, together with the in.come from the sale of green leaf produced on.
the Tea Training Center Estate, would, after disbursement of the IDA credit
an.d CDC loan, be sufficient to meet all UTGC's operating expenses and debt
service.
17.       The project, which is the development of an already successful
nucleus, would improve the standard of living of a large number of African
subsistence farmers and would contribute appreciably to Uganda's export
income. It is estimated that the project's contribution to the foreign.



- 5 -
exchange earnings of the country would average about US $1.8 million,
(.£660,00) per year until about 1986 and more thereafter.  The economic
return of this project is estimated at 13 percent per annum over its
expected life of 50 years.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       Copies of the draft Development Credit Agreement between the
State of Uganda and the Association and of a Project Agreement between
the Association and the Uganda Tea Growers Corporation and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for under Section. 1 (d) of Article V of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, relating to the project are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
19.       The form of the draft Development Credit Agreement conforms
generally to the pattern of IDA credits with a project agreement.  Attention
is called to the following provisions of the Development Credit Agreement:
(a) A part of the proceeds of the credit is to be relent by
the Government of Uganda to UTGC to meet 75 percent of
the net expenditures of UTGC for Part A of the field sector
of the project, the other 25 percent being financed by
CDC (Sections 4.02(a) and 2.03(a)(i)). The remainder of
the proceeds of the credit is to be used by the Government
to finance Dart of its expenditures on Part B of the field
sector of the project (Section 2.03(a)(ii)).
(b) The Borrower will make available to UTGC, promptly as
needed, all funds and other resources required for the
carrying out of the project and in particular provide
processing facilities for tea and the necessary funds
therefor (Section 4.02(c)).
(c) The Borrower will construct, as required, and maintain
all roads necessary to enable UTGC to collect leaf from
growers producing it under the project and to deliver
such leaf to the processing factories (Section 4.06).
(d) The Borrower will cause UTGC to collect revenue and
capital levies on green leaf delivered for processing
under the project at rates agreed from time to time
between the Borrower and the Association (Section 4.07).
(e) The Development Credit Agreement will not become effective
un.til the Government of Uganda, UTGC and CDC have entered
into a binding and effective agreement providing for a loan.
of £301,000 sterling from CDC to UTGC for the field sector
of the project (Section 6,01(b)).
20.       The draft Project Agreement provides for a limitation on UTGC's
long-term indebtedness (Section 2.05), and for a limitation on the under-
taking by UTGC of responsibilities outside the project (Section 2.10).



- 6 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda" (No. AF-35, dated September 13, 1965) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in connection with a loan.for East
African Railways and Harbors (428-EA). A memorandum updating the economic
information on Uganda (No. AF-53) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on.October 27, 1966 (R66-141): significant developments up to April 1967
were reviewed in the President's Report and Recommendation to the Executive
Directors in connection with a credit to Uganda for a Road Project (108-UG)
made in July 1967. Discussions were held in June with the Uganda Government
on the draft reTport of an Economic Mission which visited the country during
October-December 1966.  The main conclusions of this report, which is under
final revision, are summarized below; basic data on the economy are attached
(No. 2).
22.       In recent years, the growth of Uganda's economy has been. fairly
rapid. During the period 1960-65, real per capita income in the monetary
sector rose by an annual average of about 2.5 percent. The main factors
which contributed to a rise in incomes were an export boom in. 1963-64 and
a marked expansion in public and private spending. Although private domestic
savings were high, their availability for domestic investment was signifi-
cantly affected by transfers abroad, hoarding and property speculation.
Public savings, on the other hand, proved inadequate to finance an accelerated
capital expenditure program, and consequently a substantial financial
imbalance developed. Externally, although the current account balance was
favorable, the heavy private capital outflow resulted in a loss of reserves,
which fell to a dangerously low level in the early part of 1966.
23.       The budget of 1966/67 reflected a clear recognition by the Govern-
ment of the need to remedy the situation, The budget provided for
a sizeable surplus of £5.4 million, through increased taxation and economies
in public expenditure. In the latter part of 1966 the Government also
reduced the producer price for cotton to bring it in line with the world
market price, thereby closing the biggest finan.cial gap in the public
sector. The budgetary results for 1966/67 show that a surplus of close to
£5 million was, in, fact, achieved.  The 1967/68 budget shows a continued
emphasis on restraint in public spending.
24.       Economic growth in. the next few years will have to be based more
on production for the home market, in contrast to past growth which was
largely dependent on the export market. In real terms, the rate of growth
in the period 1966-71 is likely to be higher than in 1960-65. An increase
in the physical growth rate may be largely offset by a probable fall in.
export prices. Hence the rate of growth of the real per capita income is
expected to be about 1.2 percent annually in comparison with the 1960-65
annual average of about 2.5 percent.
25.       Projected investment during the 1966-71 Development Plan period
will be substantially higher than available domestic savings, making
Uganda's development heavily dependent upon sustained capital inflows from
abroad.  Since many of the projects likely to be suitable for external
financing have a relatively low foreign exchange component, external
assistance would also be needed to cover a proportion of local costs.



- 7 -
26.       Uganda's external public debt amounted to $121.8 million at the
end of 1966. To this must be added a notional one-third of EACSA debt of
$79.3 million, which Uganda has guaranteed jointly with Kenya and Tanzania,
making a total of a little over $200 million.   Mhe ratio of total debt
service to export earnings in 1966 amounted to 4.7 percent, but will rise
to 6.4 percent in.1971.  Uganda's performance and potential for long-term
growth and diversification of production suggest that there may be a
margin for incurring some additional debt on conventional terms for the
East African Common Services. In view, however, of important limiting
factors such as the low per capita income and the unfavorable price out-
look for the leading export items, it would be appropriate for future
borrowing by Uganda, other than for the Common Services, to be so far as
possible on concessional terms. -
PART VI - COMPLIATICE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
27.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO'JMENDATION
28.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA _
Approval of Development Credit to the State of Uganda
in an amount equivalent to U.S. $3,400,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
State of Uganda in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
millionr four hundred thousand U'nited States dollars (U.S. $3,400,000) to
mature on and prior to February 1, 2017, to bear a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions set forth in. the form of Development
Credit Agreement (Uganda Tea Growers Corporation Project) between the
State of Uganda and the Association and Project Agreement (Uganda Tea
Growers Corporation Project) between the Association and Uganda Tea Growers
Corporation., which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. W4oods
President
Attachments                          by S. R. Cope
W[ashington., D. C.
August 30, 1967



