CREDIT NUMBER 109 UG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Uganda Tea Growers Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMdBER 15, 1967
S


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 109 UG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Uganda Tea Growers Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 15, 1967


﻿Drorlopmnt (Trbit Agrument
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1967, between REPUBLIC
or UGANDA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower and the Uganda Tea Growers
Corporaion (hereinafter called UTGC), a statutory body
established by The Uganda Tea Growers Corporation Act,
1966 of the Borrower, are executing a project for the
development of tea production by smallholders;
(B) The Commonwealth Development Corporation (here-
inafter called CDC), a corporation established under the
Overseas Resources Act, 1948 of the United Kingdom,
intenls to enter into an agreement with the Government
of the Borrower and UTGC providing, inter alia, for a loan
of up to £301,000 sterling in the currency of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from CDC
to UTGC for the fleld sector of this project;
(C) CDC intends, provided certain conditions are ful-
filled, to contribute towards the financing of the tea factories
forming a part of this project ,nd in connection with the
financing of such factories UTGC may borrow additional
amounts from other lenders including Agricultural Enter-
prises Limited and the Government of the Borrower;
(D) The Government of the Borrower and UTGC have
entered into an agreement dated March 8, 1967 providing,
inter alia, for the supplying by the Government of the
Borrower of the field staff required for the proper carrying
out of this project and the necessary housing and transport
facilities for such staff;
(E) The Uganda Land Commission has entered into an
agreement with UTGC dated February 1, 1967 in respect
0


﻿4
of the sale to UTGC of 1,000 acres of land (including 200
acres of established tea) in the Munobwa area of Uganda
adjacent to the existing Tea Research Station on terms
which provide that UTGC is to have the exclusive use of
such land from the date of such agreement and that UTGC
is to pay the purchase price of such land amounting to
1,333,280 Uganda shillings, without interest being added,
in 20 equal annual installments beginning in the eloventh
year from the date of such agreement;
(F) The Borrower has provided UTGC, on the same
financial terms referred to in RECITAL (E), a credit
amounting to 331,400 Uganda shillings for the purchase of
buildings, equipment, furniture and tea stumps existing on
the land referred to in RECITAL (E) and for compensating
the tenants thereon;
(G) The Borrower and UTGC have requested the
Association to assist in the financing of this project for
the development of tea production; and
(H) The Association is willing to make a development
credit available on the terms and conditions provided herein
and in a project agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and UTGC;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended February 9,
1967 with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein subject, however, to the following modifications
thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1 as so
modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):


﻿5
(a) Subparagraph (c) of Section 5.02 is amended by
deleting the words ", or any bonds or other obligations
issued thereunder" and substituting therefor the words
"or the loan agreement between the Uganda Protectorate
and the Bank dated March 29, 1961 or under the letter of
guarantee executed by the Acting Governor of the Uganda
Protectorate dated June 1, 1955 or under any bonds or
other obligations issued under any such agreement."
(b) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement."
(c) The following subparagraph is added to Section 9.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment.''
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement or in the
Schedule thereto, unless the context shall otherwise require,
the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a) The term "Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and UTGC of even date herewith,
providing for the carrying out of the Project, as the same
shall be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower, the Association and UTGC.
(b) The term "Supervision Agreement" means the
agreement between the Government of the Borrower and
UTGC referred to in Recital (D) of this Agreement, as
the same shall be amended from time to time with the
approval of the Association.
(c) The term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement referred to in Section 4.02(a) of this Agreement
to be entered into between the Government of the Borrower
and UTGC, as the same shall be amended from time to time
with the approval of the Association.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this
Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
a development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million four hundred thousand dollars
($3,400,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subjcct to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation shall other\wise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account in such freely convertible cur-
rencies as the Association shall reasonably select:
(i) amounts, up to the equivalent of $2,600,000,
equivalent to 75%o of (x) such amounts as shall
have been expeii(led on Part A of the field
sector of the Project less (y) the revenues of
UTGC dnring the period of such expenditures;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be
made pursuant to this paragraph (i) unless the
Borrower shall certify in respect of each with-
drawal that UTGC has applied to CDC for a
withdrawal in connection with the loan referred
to in Recital (B) of this Agreement in an
amount equivalent to 331/3 %/ of the amount to
be- withdrawn from the Credit Account pursuant


﻿7
to this paragraph (i) and that no circumstances
exist which would justify the denial by CDC
of such application; and
(ii) amounts, up to the equivalent of $800,000,
equivalent to 80%  of such amounts as shall
have been expended on Part B of the field sector
of the Project; and
(b) no withdrawal shall be made on account of expendi-
tures incurred prior to September 15, 1966.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%/o) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
anually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and
August 1 commencing August 1, 1977 and ending Febru-
ary 1, 2017, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 1, 1987 to be one-half of one per cent
(/,  of 1%) of such prlincipal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cc'.- (1/%) of such
priicipal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTIoN 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions


﻿80
of the Development Credit Agreement to expenditures, or
to reimbursement of expenditures, for the field sector of the
Project described in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound agricultural, engineering and
financial standards and practices.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable UTGC to perform all its
obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not take
any action that would interfere with the performance of
such obligations by UTGC.
(c) The Borrower shall cause UTGC to have experienced
and competent management.
(d) The Borrower shall consult the Association about any
proposed appointment of the Chairman and General Man-
ager of UTGC sufficiently in advance of such appointment
for the Association to have adequate opportunity to com-
ment on it.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the part of
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn pursuant to Section
2.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement or the equivalent thereof to
TTGC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associ-
ation pursuant to a loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive any
provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿9
(c) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be
made available to UTGC, promptly as needed, all funds
and other resources which shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project and in particular shall cause to be
provided or provide processing facilities for tea and the
necessary funds therefor as and when required.
(d) The Borrower shall perform all its obligations under
the Supervision Agreement and, except with the approval
of the Association, shall not amend or abrogate the Super-
vision Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited represenitatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
S


﻿10
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTIoN 4.06. The Borrower shall construct, as required,
and shall maintain all roads necessary to enable UTGC to
collect leaf from growers producing tea under the Project
and to deliver such leaf to the factories wi-IL are to
process it. Such roads shall be constructed and maintained
to standards adequate to permit the efficient collection and
delivery of such leaf in all but very wet conditions.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shal, ause UTGC to collect
revenue and capital k  s on green leaf delivered under the
Project for processing at rates agreed from time to time
between the Borrower and the Asso 'iation.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof the Association, at its option, may
declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be
due and p,ayable immediately, and upon any such declaration
such principal shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of paragraph (k) of
Section 5.02 of the Regulations, the following additional
events are specified:


﻿11
(a) UTGC shall have failed to perform any covenant or
agreement of UTGC under the Project Agreement.
(b) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
ip accordance with its terms, the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of UTGC or for the
suspension of its operations.
(c) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Uganda Tea Growers Cor-
poration Act, 1966 of the Borrower shall have been materi-
ally amended without the agreement of the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SEcrioN 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b) of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of UTGC have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
executed in form satisfactory to the Association and has
become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms subject only to the effectiveness
of this Agreement;
(c) the Government of the Borrower, 'UTGC and CDC
have entered into the agreement referred to in Recital (B)
hereof (which agreement may be combined with the Sub-
sidiiary Loan Agrement) and such agreement has become
fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in accord-
ance with its terms subject only to the effectiveness of this
Agreement;
(d) the Uganda Tea Growers Corporation Act, 1966 of
the Borrower has been amended to enable the appropriate


﻿12
Minister of the Borrower to make regulations providing
for the compulsory registration of tea growers under the
said Act; and
(e) the regulations referred to in the foregoing para-
graph (d) have been duly made in accordance with the
said amendment, and all necessary action has been taken
to enable UTGC to collect the revenue and capital levies
referred to in Section 4.07 of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
UTGC and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
UTGC in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the agreements referred to in paragraph (b) and
(c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the parties thereto and constitute valid and binding obliga-
tions of the parties thereto in accordance with their terms;
(c) that the Supervision Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the parties thereto and constitutes valid and
binding obligations of the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms; and
(d) that the agreement referred to in Recital (E) of this
Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and
constitutes valid and binding obligations of the parties
thereto in accordance with their terms.


﻿13
SECTION 6.03. If this Develoment Credit Agreement shall
not have come into force and effect by December 15, 1967,
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Associ-
ation, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for purposes of this Section. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and UTGC
of such later date.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project, UTGC and tea
produced or processed under the Project shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1971, or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
P.O. Box 103
Entebbe, Uganda
Cable address:
Finsec
Entebbe


﻿14
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTIOx 7.03. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated for the purposes
of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By s/   ERIFASI OTEMA-ALLIMADI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project is a part of the smallholder tea development
program of UTGC and the Borrower. The Project consists
of a field sector and a factory sector.
The field sector of the Project, covering 4,000 acres
planted prior to January 1, 1966 and approximately 9,700
acres planted or to be planted thereafter, consists of
two parts.
Part A of the field sector includes the following:
(a) the securing, and distribution to qualified small-
holders, of wellgrown planting material and the pro-
viding of credit to such smallholders for the purchase
of such planting material under the planting program
for the years 1966 through 1970 specified below, on
the basis of up to 100% credit for such planting
material for the first five acres of tea planted by any
smallholder and up to 50o credit for seedlings for
an additional five acres. The planting program is as
follows: 1,325 acres in the year ending December 31,
1966, 1,375 acres in the year ending December 31,
1967, 2,320 acres in the year ending December 31,
1968, 2,320 acres in the year ending December 31,
1969 and 2,360 acres in the year ending December
31, 1970. Under this program tea will be planted in
the following planting areas: Toro, Ankole, Kigezi,
Bunyoro, N.W. Mubende and the Mityaiia, Lugazi
an Masaka areas of Buganda;
(b) the securing and distribution to qualified small-
holders, of fertilizers for immature tea (during the
first four years after planting) and the providing of
credit to such smallholders for the purchase of
fertilizers on the same basis as specified in (a) above;


﻿16
(c) the provision of a training center for smallholders
and for staff supervising smallholder tea cultivation
in the field; and
(d) the organizing and financing of the collection,
inspection and transportation to factories of green
leaf.
Part B of the field sector includes the following:
(a) the supervision in the field, through staff to be
provided by the Government of the Borrower as
provided in the Supervision Agreement, of small-
holder tea cultivation and the provision of housing
and transportation for such staff;
(b) the organization and supervision, through staff pro-
vided by the Government of the Borrower, of tea
growers' cooperatives; and
(c) the training, through staff provided by the Govern-
ment of the Borrower, of smallholders either at the
training center referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of
Part A or in the field.
The factory sector of the Project includes the extension
of the existing factories and/or the construction and oper-
ation of new factories, as needed for the processing of
smallholder tea.


