Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11175-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 25, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       Leone (Le)
Le 1.00              =       US .002 cents
US$1.00              =       Le 500
Le 1.0 million       =       US$2,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC SYSTEM
Metric                       British/US
1 meter (m)          =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (hs)         =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (lum)        =        0.625 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (t)        =       2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB             Africa Development Bank
ADT              Average Daily Traffic
CBD              Central Business District
DOW              Department of Works
DTC              Department of Transport, Communications and Tourism
DTI              Department of Trade and Industry
EC               European Community
FBC              Fuorbay Bay College
GOSL             Government of Sierra Leone
ILO              International Labor Organization
IPAM             Institute for Public Administration Management
JICA             Japan International Cooperation Agency
NGO              Non Government Organization
NMT              Non-Motorized Transport
PPAR             Project Performance Audit Report
RIC              Reconstruction Import Credit
RRMP             Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
RTC              Road Transport Corporation
SLA              Sierra Leone Airways
SLAA             Sierra Leone Airport Authority
SLNSC            Sierra Leone National Shipping Company
SLPA             Sierra Leone Ports Authority
SLPMB            Sierra Leone Produce and Marketing Board
SLRA             Sierra Leone Roads Authority
UNCTAD           United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UNDTCD           United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for
Development
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBRLIC OF SIEONE
ROAD REHRUJL=ANDMALENIACEPRJC
Talet Of Contets
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . ............................... i
I. INTRODUC QN   .             .....................................                           1
EI. THETRANSPORT SEC R  ...................................                                    1
A.      Overview of the Sector . ...............................                       I
B.      Transport Sector Organization .       ...........................              5
C.      Bank Involvement in the Sector  ..........           ................    6
m. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ........................                                                 7
A.      The Network ....................................                               7
B.      Development Strategy  . ...............................    9
C.     Reforms Underway ..................................   10
D.      The Construction Industry .      .............................   12
IV. THE PROJECT ..................................... 12
A.      Project Objectives ...................................    12
B.      Project Description  ..................................    13
C.      Project Costs and Financing .    .............................   17
D.      Status of Project Preparation  ............         ................  20
E.      Implementation ....................................    21
F.      Procurement ....................................    21
G.      Disbursements ....................................    24
H.      Special Account ....................................   25
I.   Accounting and Auditing ................................ 25
J.      Reporting and Monitoring .       .............................  25
K.      Environmental Impact  . ...............................   26
L.     Project Supervision ..................................    26
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...................................   27
VI. AGREEMENTS ANp RECOMMENpATION ........                            ................  28
The Project was prepared on the basis of preapprisal and appaisl missions in Dcermber
1991 and April 1992 by Mr. T. Pankaj (Principal Tranport Specialist), Mr. A. Bhandari
(Senior Transportation Engineer) and Mr. H. Young (Consultant). Mr. Edward Donkor
(Consultant) assisted in appraising the road sector orpanizaton. Mr. A. Dalfelt carried out
the environmental assessment. Mr. R. James provided computing and research assistance.
Secretarial work was done by Mmes. E. Novatny and H. Kofi. The peor reviewer was
Mr. W.D.O. Paterson (Senior Highway Engineer). Messrs. J. Wright and E. Lim are the
Division Chief and Director, respctively of the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
2-1  Vehicle Statistics
2-2 Sierra Leone Ports Authority: Traffic Statistics: 1986 - 1991
2-3 Lungi International Airport - Passenger Traffic 1970 - 1990
3-1 The Road Network Classification
3-2  Regional Distribution of Road Network
3-3 Road Classification and Design Standards
3-4 DOW Development Budgets 1988-1992
3-5 DOW Recurrent Budgets 1983-1992
3-6 SLRA: Key Organization Features and Transition Plan for Transferring Road
Functions from DOW to SLRA
3-7  Road Maintenance Coat Recovery
4-1 Seven Year Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
4-2 Trunk Road Rehabilitation under the Project
4-3 Freetown CBD Street Rehabilitation
4-4 Training of Domestic Contractors
4-5  Technical Assistance for SLRA
4-6  Training and Manpower Development for SLRA
4-7 Equipment List for SLRA
4-S TOR for Transport Sector Studies
4-9  Pilot Component for Promoting Non-Motor Transport (NMT)
4-10 Detailed Cost Tables
4-11 Summary of Project Costs and Ftnancing Plan
4-12 Budget Estimates and Local Funding Needs for the Road Sector, 1993-1997
4-13 Implementation Schedule
4-14 Details of Procurement Arrangements
4-15 Disbursement Schedule
4-16 Environmental Impact Analysis
4-17 Supervision Plan and Monitoring of Performance Indicators
5-1  Economic Analysis
6-1 Documents in the Project File



ROAD REHABILrTATION AND MADTMANCE PRO.lECT
CRDIT AND PRO.1ECTrtMMR
Borrower:                  Republic of Sierra Leone
Bnefilad :                 Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
Imnlementing Aencles:  Sierra Leone Roads Authority, Local NGOs, Domestic
Contractors, Freetown City Council and Department of
Transport, Communications and Tourism
Amount:                     SDR 32.0 million (US$45.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Relending Terms:           Grant from Borrower to SLRA
DesJrintion:               The main objective of the project is to remove physical
bottlenecks in the country's transport network through a
sustainable road rehabilitation and maintenance program,
and to build institutional capacity to better plan, manage
and maintain roads and other transport facilities. The
project supports: (a) a four year time slice consisting of the
first phase of a seven year program for road network
rehabilitation and maintenance; (b) the establishment and
strengthening of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
to manage the road network; (c) training and other support
to strengthen small domestic contractors including training
in labor-intensive methods; (d) promotion of non-motorized
transport in rural areas to improve transport services to the
poor and assistance to NOOs for this purpose; and (e)
strengthening transport sector planning.
Estimated Proiect Costs and Finandng Plan:
Local   EoreiF     Tota1
(USS million)
A. Estimated Project Costs
Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance                     11.26    48.69    59.95
Institutional Strengthening (Roads Sector)             1.36    11.01     12.37
Support to Department of Works                        0.01      0.26     0.27
Support to Transport Sector                           0.05      0.46     0.51
Pilot Program for Promoting Non-Motorized Transport   0.07      0.64     0.71
Project Design and Supervision                        0a9    .AA4         4.94
BASE COST (mid-1992)                              13=25    6LS5      2L7.
Physical Contingencies                                 1.23     6.25     7.48
Price Contingencies                                   3.58      2.93     6.51
TOTAL                                             1.       Z,§       92.74



ii
Lo&al   Foreign   Total
(USS million)
B. Financine Plan
IDA                                                 5.95    39.05    45.00
UNDP                                                0.10     5.59     5.69
JICA                                                0.00     5.00     5.00
EC                                                  0.50    11.35    11.85
AfDB                                                0.66    13.69    14.35
SLRA/GOSL                                          1.00    10 IS
TOTAL (1)                                       JjQ0     74.68   292.7
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
Fiscal Year
(July-June)    FY1993   FY1994   FY1995    FY1996    FY1997    FY1998
(USS Million)
Annual           0.80      5.40       11.50       11.40      10.10       5.80
Cumulative       0.80      6.20       17.70      29.10       39.20      45.00
Benerits:                 The main benefits are increased road transport capacity,
protection of past investments in the road network,
reduced transport costs, and the spread of low-cost non-
motorized transport to replace head-porterage done by
women and children as a means of rural transport.
Risks:                    The main risk is the repetition of Government's failure
in past projects to provide regular counterpart funding,
and adequate project management. These risks have
been minimized (a) by setting up a semi-autonomous
SLRA to manage the road sector in general and such
projects in particular, and (b) by legislation setting up a
Road Fund and new increases in fuel taxes which should
provide the necessary funding for the project and for
future maintenance in a timely manner. Government
has demonstrated its strong commitment through
implementing major sector reforms during the past year.
(1) Includes USS6.02 million in taxes and duties.



iii
The proposed provision of technical assistance and
training to SLRA will help build up a strong project
management capability. Nevertheless, thorough
supervision of the project is called for and will be
provided.
Economic Rate of Return:   The weighted average ERR for the project is 30%.
MaM: IBRD No. 23597 1993-1996 Proposed Trunk Road Rehabilitation Program
IBRD No. 24003 Freetown CBD Road Rehabilitation Program



a



REPUBLIC OF SIERRALEN
ROAD REAIIAINAND MArNTENANCE PROJRC`r
I. INTRQDUQ
1.1   Sierra Leone is endowed with rich mineral wealth, ample cultivable land and
exploitable fisheries, but the majority of its people live in extreme poverty, mainly due
to inadequate development efforts and past mismanagement of resources. Its per capita
income has halved in real terms since 1980, and was about US$240 in 1990/91, one of
the lowest in the world. Government institutions have deteriorated and have limited
capability to deliver the most basic services. The transport, electricity, health and
education systems have nearly collapsed. Most trunk roads and feeder roads are in very
poor condition or impassable, which makes the movement of farm produce to market
and of inputs to farming areas difficult and expensive. This has contributed to very
high prices for food and other consumer items.
1.2   To reverse the past trends, Government embarked on a comprehensive package
of economic reforms in December 1989, which it successfully implemented during 1990
and 1991, thus winning back considerable international confidence and support for a
bolder economic recovery program. Early in 1992, the Government started on a
further program of economic recovery and structural adjustment, with support from
international agencies, including IDA.
1.3   IDA has actively supported Government's structural adjustment and economic
recovery program, through a Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) which was approved
by the Board on April 14, 1992 and became effective on April 15. This policy-based
credit will help restore the Government's capacity to provide essential services and to
manage economic reforms. Two investment credits to rehabilitate infrastructure will
follow to supplement these efforts. The first investment credit to rehabilitate power
supply and distribution was approved by the Board on April 21, 1992 (Cr. No. C.2356-
SL). The second is the proposed credit for an urgently needed Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP). The Government considers this project a priority to help
produce a supply response from macroeconomic reforms.
H. THE  SRANSPO      SECTIOR
A.    Overview of the Sector
2.1   Sierra Leone is a relatively small (71,740 km) West African country situated
along the Atlantic coast between Guinea and Liberia. The population is estimated at
about 4.0 million, of which about 1 million live in urban centers, mainly Freetown.
The country has a humid, tropical climate with rainfall averaging more than 200 inches
per year in some parts. The topography is mostly hilly to mountainous and is traversod
by many rivers. Sierra Leone's economy has a small modern sector, dominated by a



2
few public corporations and private mining concerns. It coexists with a largely
traditional agricultural sector which sustains more than two thirds of the population,
generally at a bare subsistence level.
2.2    The country's transport sector consists of: (a) about 11,330 km of roads, some
1,260 km of which are paved and almost 4,250 km classified as rural feeder roads; (b)
a poorly maintained, over-aged road vehicle fleet of about 52,000 motor vehicles
(including motorbikes), mainly owned by the private sector; (c) a principal port located
in the capital, Freetown, and two private ports which are used for mineral exports; (d)
a major international airport at Freetown and about 12 minor airports which are
infrequently used; and (e) about 400 km of shallow but navigable river stretches, though
river transport remains insignificant. Sierra Leone had a rail network which was
phased out during the 1970's when it became uneconomic. New road links which were
expected to be built in its place were not constructed, thus leaving many fertile areas
previously served by rail, without adequate transport links.
2.3 The dominant internal transport infrastructure is of the road network which
carries about 98% of the internal traffic flows, the rest being carried by inland and
coastal water transport. The road system, however, remains in poor physical condition
because of past neglect of maintenance. Management is weak due to staffing and
financial problems. The Govermnent of Sierra Leone (GOSL) has begun to address
these problems, and has already made good progress in major institutional reforms
through the setting up in 1992 of a Road Authority and the establishment of a Road
Fund. The road subsector is discussed in more detail in Chapter m.
2.4    Road Transport is almost entirely operated by the private sector, mainly by
individuals and small firms. There is free entry to the transport market by anyone who
wants to operate a truck or passenger vehicle, subject to minimal registration and
licensing requirements. Passenger fares and freight tariffs in the private sector are not
regulated in practice, though the tariffs charged by the public sector are subject to
Government control (see para 2.07). The Sierra Leone Produce and Marketing Board
(SLPMB) owns about 35 trucks, which will be divested to the private sector, according
to GOSL's agreement with IDA under RIC. A small share (ess than 5%) of passenger
transport is handled by the Road Transport Corporation (RTC) in the public sector.
The vehicle fleet amounts to about 52,000, comprising of about 25,000 private cars,
6,000 taxis, 3,800 trucks, 1,100 small buses, 6,500 light vans, and others. (Annex 2-1
gives recent vehicle statistics). Due to a shortage of imported spares and the poor
condition of the roads, the vehicle fleet is poorly maintained and inefficient.
2.5    Non-motorized transport (NMT), such as bicycles, cycle trailers and other types
are not widely used in Sierra Leone, though they would provide sustainable low-cost
transport, particularly for the rural and urban poor. The proposed project includes a
component to promote the use of NMT, based on recent successful Bank experience in
Ghana and the long-term experience in Asia (para 4.15).
2.6    A major problem in the transport sector is the inadequacy and poor quality of
public passenger transport, which entails considerable hardship to the middle and low
income public who depend on it. This is caused by: (i) high operating costs due to
poor roads; (ii) shortage of local funds and foreign exchange to import vehicles and
spares; and (iii) high import costs in leones for vehicles and fuel due to steep



3
devaluation (1000% in 3 years) with wage income remaining relatively stagnant. As a
result, buses remain congested with long waiting time and frequent delays because of
breakdowns. These problems are compounded in the Freetown urban area by lack of
traffic management and extremely poor road conditions resulting in traffic congestion.
It is expected that these problems will be eased to some extent by the imports facilitated
by RIC, and by the rehabilitation of certain roads in the Freetown Central Business
District (CBD), a component under the proposed project (see para 4.2 (a)(ii)).
2.7    The state-owned Road Transport Corporation (RTC) operates a limited number
of buses (about 23 in its fleet, with 13 in operation), particularly on inter-city routes.
On many inter-city routes where roads are very poor, RTC is the only long-distance
operator as private operators do not like to provide services on such poor roads. The
RTC's tariffs, controlled by the Government, provide concessional rates for school
children and women. RTC operates at a loss due to low tariffs for many services
provided as public service obligations, inefficient management, high operating costs
partly due to poor road conditions, and shortage of spares which affects fleet capacity.
RTC does not receive revenue subsidies from Government, but Government has passed
on limited bilateral assistance in the form of buses, spares and technical assistance to
the RTC on concessional terms. These indirect subsidies which support a small share
(about 5%) of the passenger transport market, is one of the few types of assistance
available to the poor to cushion the shock of macroeconomic adjustment and
devaluation. There is a possibility that RTC's performance will improve with
completion of projected road improvements which will reduce delays and operating
costs. The scope for transferring these public service obligations to the private sector is
limited in the short-term. During negotiations. Government's agreement was obtained
to engage consultants under the project to study the future role of RTC, including the
scope for restructuring/privatization and to complete such study by June 30, 1994; and
for the government through Public Enterprise Divestiture Committee, set up under RIC,
to make a decision on RTC's future, in consultation with IDA, by September 30, 1994,
and to implement agreed changes thereafter.
2.8    Ports and ShiRping: The main port of Sierra Leone is located at Freetown and
is operated by the Sierra Leone Ports Authority (SLPA). It is a natural harbor which
permits a draft of almost 10 meters. The port has six berths with a total quay length of
1100 meters. There are five transit sheds, and the port area covers 32 acres. Freetown
handles most of the country's general cargo and all of its petroleum import traffic.
SLPA also oversees two other ports at Niti and Pepel, operated by private mining firms
which handle mainly bulk exports of bauxite, rutile and iron ore. Total port traffic has
declined from about 1.4 million tons in 1978 to 360,000 tons in 1991, reflecting closure
of some mines and the recent slow-down in general economic activity. (Annex 2-2
gives port traffic figures.) The port facilities are generally in sound condition, but there
is urgent need to pave cargo-handling and storage areas and internal roads, and to
replace some cargo-handling equipment. SLPA has currently engaged a foreign
contractor to do part of the paving works.
2.9   SLPA is an autonomous public corporation which was created in 1964. It is in
charge of the Freetown port's management, maintenance and improvements, stevedoring
operations, channel maintenance (markings and minor dredging) and pilotage service for
ships, including pilotage and channel maintenance in other ports. Traffic from Nid and
Pepel pays channel dues and pilotage fees to SLPA. SLPA is currently managed by a



4
team of seven expatriates from the Hamburg Port Consultants. SLPA operations are
run efficiently and have recently yielded annual financial surpluses. SLPA revenue in
FY91 was 2,500 million leones, of which about 40% was received in foreign exchange.
GOSL has agreed with IDA, during the RIC negotiations that similar expatriate
management will continue, and that bids will be invited from competent foreign firms
and a new contract will be signed before December 31, 1992. In addition, durng
neeotiations it was agreed that a review of SLPA's functions will be completed by
December 31, 1993 with a view to reorganizing its operations.
2.10  Fer  Services: SLPA operates the important ferry services between Kissy and
Tagrin (about 10 km) which connects Freetown with the intenational airport at Lungi.
Alternatives to this ferry service are a 180 km road detour via the nearest bridge, or a
high cost hovercraft service serving foreign airline passenger traffic. The ferry also
provides a shorter route to the Port Loko area. Ferries used for small river crossings
are operated by the Department of Works (DOW), formerly the Ministry of Works
(MOW). The fleet consists of three Japanese-built 600 ton vessels dating from 1980
and two smaller vessels which are about 15 years old. All are in a poor state of repair
and normally only two boats are operational. GOSL is seeking bilateral assistance to
rehabilitate the vessels. SLPA has been losing money on the ferry service, cross-
subsidizing it from other port revenues. The ferry services are important and need to
be continued. The organizational review of SLPA (para 2.9) will study ways to
improve the efficiency and profitability of ferry operation.
2.11   The Sierra Leone National Shipping Co. (SLNSC) has sold its three ships and
now operates as a shipping agent and freight forwarder in competition with private
firms. It currently makes a profit. It collects from importers and shippers on behalf of
the Government, a freight levy of US$1.00 per ton of cargo on imports and US$0.60
per ton of export cargo, based on the United Nations Commission for Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) convention on shipping.
2.12   Coastal River Trans2ort: This form of transport is used to: (a) barge bauxite
and rutile ores to the anchorage at Niti for transshipment to ocean-going vessels; (b)
connect Sherbro Island with the mainland; and (c) serve the Kambia and Port Loko
districts of the Northern region. It is estimated that total navigable distance for vessels
of 2.0 meter draft throughout the year, taking advantage of favorable tides, is 400 km.
Coastal and river transport is operated by the private sector and is neither controlled nor
regulated by the Government. No large companies are involved, and, as a result, no
data are available on the operation of this mode of transport. There seems to be good
potential for further developing water transport through selective investments in
dredging and riverside jetties. The possibility of making more use of the country's
inland waterways system will be studied under the proposed project (para 4.14).
2.13 Air Transoort: Sierra Leone has one international airport which is located at
Lungi reached mainly by a long ferry connection from Freetown (para 2.10). Lungi
International Airport is managed by the Sierra Leone Airport Authority (SLAA) which
was established in 1988 with assistance from the UNDP. SLAA is managed efficiently
through an expatriate General Manager provided by UNDP, and is operating on a
commercial basis at a profit. Significant improvements have taken place in recent years
including the extension of the runway to 3200 m, a new terminal building, and limited
navigational aids. Additional facilities and navigational aids are needed. Traffic has



5
increased steadily over the past two decades with approximately 129,000 passengers
handled in 1990. International travel is offered by eight carriers in addition to Sierra
Leone Airways (SLA). There are no scheduled internal air travel services. (Annex 2-3
gives air traffic statistics).
B.    Transport Sector Organization
2.14   Private and Public Sector Role: The private sector is dominant in the road
transport sector and inland water transport, and it shares a role in the port and shipping
sectors. The public sector is responsible for: sector policy formulation and
administration, road construction and maintenance (with major support from private,
mostly foreign, contractors), and in managing ports (SLPA), and airports (SLAA). It
has small shares in freight forwarding (SLNSC), international air transport (SLA), and
road transport (RTC). With the exception of RTC (para 2.7), all transport parastatals
operate at a profit, and none of them receives subsidies from Government.
2.15   Sector Administration: Transport administration is divided among the
Department of Transport, Communications and Tourism (DTC), and DOW, and from
September 1991 the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) which supervises RTC
and SLNSC. The DTC is supposed to initiate policies, regulations, by-laws and
transport sector development projects for the country. In practice, it has not been able
to perform any of these functions because of the lack of skilled and experienced staff.
It has one Planning Officer without supporting staff. The DTC supervises the SLPA.
It is also responsible for civil aviation including supervising functions of the Lungi
Airport and the new Airport Authority, as well as the SLA.
2.16   Roads were administered until early 1992 by the DOW (formerly Ministry of
Works). The DOW is responsible for the planning, design, and construction of all
designated public roads in the country, though this responsibility for roads is now being
transferred to the new SLRA (see para 2.17). The DOW would continue to be
responsible for the maintenance of public buildings, inner channels and ports, coastal
erosion and control, and other public works. Part of the reason for the present poor
state of road condition was, in addition to inadequate funding, the administrative
inefficiency due the multiple functions of the DOW. The DOW has had to work with
limited material and equipment because Government budget allocations had not been
provided. Worker morale was low and the DOW has lost a considerable number of its
experienced professional staff to other institutions over the past few years. DOW was
overstaffed at the non-technical level, with about 12,000 staff in January 1992; under
the RIC, Government has agreed to reduce public sector staff by about 10,000 by
December 31, 1992. As of September 1992, 5,000 staff have been retrenched from
DOW. It is expected that after transfer of selected road staff to the new SLRA (about
1,000), and further retrenchment, the DOW will be left with a residual staff of only
about 600 by December 1993. The proposed project has a component to retrain
retrenched staff with road experience to become domestic contractors (para 4.8).
2.17  In response to IDA's suggestion to reform the road sector organization, on
Government's request the UNDP commissioned in 1991 a study of the roads
organization. The Organization and Management Study of the roads sub-sector
recommended the creation of the Sierra Leone Road Authority (SLRA), as a semi-
autonomous agency with responsibilities for managing the road system, and with



6
funding provided from a Road Fund dedicated to road maintenance and paid for by
road-user charges. This is somewhat similar to the recommendation which stemmed
from the review of the completed Second Highway Project (see para 2.20).
Government has recently enacted legislation for setting up SLRA, and is taking
measures to make it operational by January 1993 (see paras 3.10 and 3.11 for details).
The establishment and functioning of the SLRA is a cornerstone of the proposed
project, which includes technical assistance and other support.
2.18   The present project also includes components to strengthen transport sector
management through: (a) technical assistance and other support to DTC's Planning
Unit; and (b) sector studies of: (i) measures for improving sector organization,
planning and policies; (ii) sector investment priorities including expansion of river
transport, NMT, public passenger transport, and road safety improvements; and (iii) the
future organization and role of RTC.
2.19   Government's investrnent plan for the transport sector for 1992-93 has been
reviewed with IDA, and includes only high priority investments. It was agreed during
negQtiations that transport sector investments in the public sector will be reviewed
annually with IDA, and that IDA will be consulted before undertaking new transport
projects exceeding US$3 million equivalent outside the agreed plans.
C.    Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.20   The Bank has financed only two operations in the transport sector, both
highway projects, which were signed in 1971 and 1981. The First Highway Project
financed construction of the Bo-Kenema Road and the first phase of a road maintenance
program. The project faced delays and cost overruns, and was completed in 1975; the
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) in 1978 noted an ex-post economic return of
25%, higher than at appraisal. The PPAR, however, found that the project's
achievements in routine and periodic maintenance were far below targets.
2.21   The Second Highway Project (US$10 million from IDA) focused on
rehabilitation of 800 km of trunk roads and on improving periodic and routine
maintenance, with cofinancing from the Africa Development Fund (ADF) and the
OPEC Fund. The project was completed in 1988, after delays and suspensions due to
GOSL's defaults in repayment of past debts. According to the Project Completion
Report (PCR) issued in 1991, the physical works were only about 55% completed, and
there were long delays in execution. A post-evaluation of the resealed and regravelled
roads indicated an ERR of over 60% which was considered satisfactory. However, no
significant institution building results were achieved. The Borrower's performance was
considered generally poor because of repeated irregularities including misuse of
equipment, poor management by DOW which supervised the project, and serious
interruptions in providing counterpart funds by the Government.
2.22   The PCR cited the following main lessons which should be noted in the design
of a follow-up road project in Sierra Leone: (a) the need to establish a project
executing agency which would be free from day-to-day political influence; (b) a project
coordinator or manager should be appointed who is a senior highway engineer, and
should be insulated from political pressure from the DOW and other Government
entities; (c) provision should be made for adequate local currency funding to be



7
promptly paid into a project account; (d) steps should be taken to reduce the hugh idle
labor force employed by DOW and to establish a separate highway entity without taking
excess staff; (e) periodic maintenance work, and to the extent possible routine
maintenance, should be carried out by contractors rather than by departmental work
forces; (f) if roads are to be rehabilitated or rebuilt under a future project, a specific list
of roads should be agreed during negotiations and included in the credit agreement; and
(g) supervision by IDA should be frequent with required performance defined in
an action plan to be agreed on at negotiations, and IDA management should be prepared
to intervene promptly to resolve problems.
2.23   The present project takes these past lessons into account as follows: (a) the
establishment of SLRA (para 3.10(a)) will ensure autonomy of the project executing
agency; (b) the project provides for a project coordinator and a municipal engineer
under technical assistance (para 4.17) who will assist the Director General of SLRA in
managing the project; (c) the creation of a Road Fund will ensure adequacy and
timeliness of local funding (para 3.10(c)); (d) under RIC, retrenchment of DOW staff is
already taking place (para 3.10(b)) and the SLRA has been established without taking
excess staff (para 3.11); (e) the project provides for a shift in maintenance by force
account to maintenance by contract and provides for training of domestic contractors
(para 4.8); (f) the list of roads to be included in the project will be agreed during
negotiations (paras 4.5 and 4.6); and (g) the targets and performance indicators to be
monitored during the project will be agreed during negotiations (para 4.35 and An=
LJ7 . The Government has taken up-front action to establish a Road Authority with
accountability for the road sector and road projects, and it has set-up a Road Fund to
provide a regular flow of funds. Government has reduced the DOW staff by about
40 percent from about 12,000 in 1991 to about 7,000 by mid-1992 and is moving to
carry out a portion of maintenance by contract.
1II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOIR
A.    Tbe Network
3.1   The network of classified roads in Sierra Leone in 1991 was about 11,330 km,
consisting of 1,260 km of paved roads, 5,820 km gravel trunk roads, and about 4,250
km of rural feeder roads consisting of gravel and earth tracks. More details of the road
inventory and regional distribution are given in Annexes 3-1 and 3-2, and the road
classification and design standards are given in Annex 3-3.
3.2   The length and coverage of Sierra Leone's road network is satisfactory, but its
quality remains below necessary standards due to poor maintenance in the past. The
density of the total road network at 2.8 km/1000 population is above the average of
1.20 km in Nigeria, 2.0 km in Ghana and 1.17 km for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The
paved road network represents a density of about 0.3 km/1000 population which is
about the average for SSA. The primary and secondary network provides generally
adequate links between Freetown, the capital and main port, and important provincial
centers except Kabala in the North and Kailahun in the East. However, many rural
areas particularly in areas previously served by the now defunct rail system lack



8
connections to the road network. Road deterioration in the existing network now
requires that reconstruction and heavy rehabilitation of many key roads be undertaken.
3.3    With the exception of the two IDA projects in 1971 and 1981 which were
primarily devoted to maintenance (para 2.19 - 2.20), external funding agencies have
assisted mainly in construction of new roads in the trunk road system. At present, the
Kuwait Fund is financing construction of some sections (26 km) of the Peninsula Road
on the seaside of Freetown. The European Community (EC) has agreed to fund
reconstruction of the important, broken down Waterloo-Masiaka Road (43 km) for
which a contract was recently awarded, and resurfacing of the Makeni-Fadugu Road (80
km). There are no other significant road rehabilitation/ construction activities at
present. In addition, Government has recently started an emergency repair and
maintenance program of trunk roads and urban roads, funded from its budget and PL-
480 counterpart funds from the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID). This program will be enlarged and continued under the present project (see
para 4.8).
3.4    Of the 4,250 km of feeder roads, about 900 km were constructed during 1977-
1986 under Integrated Agricultural Development Projects with funding from IDA and
other agencies and were executed by CARE. The ILO, with United Nations
Department of Technical Cooperation for Development (UNDTCD) funding,
constructed about 178 km during this period, mainly through labor-intensive methods
and now has an effective program to rehabilitate about 200 km of important feeder
roads. The Agricultural Sector Support Project (ASSP) (Credit 1501-SL, US$21.5
million, June 1984) funded by IDA is currently being redesigned to fund the
rehabilitation of about 700-800 km of important feeder roads during 1993-95. To make
feeder road management more efficient, it will be transferred from the DOW to a new
Feeder Roads Department under SLRA.
3.5   The average daily traffic (ADT) estimated in 1988 was above 2,000 on main
roads in Freetown, above 400 per day on about 900 km, and above 150 on about 1,100
km of trunk roads. On feeder roads, traffic ranged from 10 to 50 ADT. Traffic has
declined in recent years due to the economic downturn and the poor conditions of the
roads, some of them being hardly passable. Only about 60% of the road network with
an ADT more than 150 vehicles per day is paved, and it is likely that paving the
remaining 40% will be economically justified in the near future. The proposed 7-year
program (see para 3.8), however, does not include paving of new roads, as it focusses
on more essential rehabilitation and reconstruction of the existing network.
3.6    While there had been a road maintenance organization under the DOW, there
has been practically no regular routine or periodic maintenance of the road network in
the country for the last few years for the following main reasons:
(a)    Lack of funding: As against an annual requirement of about US$6.0
million equivalent for routine maintenan  inputs (excluding wages and
overheads), the budget provision outside salaries, has been almost nil
for purchase of physical inputs. Furthermore, the provision for periodic
maintenance, which is part of the development budget, has been less
than US$100,000 equivalent (below 1% of annual requirement) (The



9
DOW development and recurrent budgets are shown in Annexes 34 and
1m; and
(b)   Institutional wealnesses and inefficiency in the organization of road
maintenance management. Road management was done through the
DOW with inadequate dedication of attention and resources for road
maintenance. Moreover, maintenance was done through a force account
system which was over-staffed, under-equipped and not effectively
supervised.
3.7    Due to the past under-allocation of funds for maintenance, nearly 30% of the
paved roads, 55% of the gravel, and 70% of the earth roads are currently rated in poor
to very poor condition and near collapse. As a result, the country is incurring costs in
vehicle operation of about US$35 million equivalent annually which could be saved if
roads were maintained in good condition, and sizable losses in reduced farm production
and other economic activities. A substantial portion of the remaining network which is
in fair condition will meet the same fate unless there is timely intervention of routine
and periodic maintenance. In addition, deferral of critically needed periodic
maintenance of these roads will result in a two to threefold increase in future
rehabilitation costs.
B.    Develogment Strategy
3.8   The overall Government strategy, supported by IDA and other aid agencies, for
improving the road network condition consists of:
(a)    Well-focussed efforts under a 7-year road reconstruction and
rehabilitation program to clear the backlog of maintenance and to
restore the road network to its original capacity with limited upgrading
where essential; and
(b)    Concurrent initiation of an efficient maintenance system and
organization with assured funding.
3.9    As regards to (a) above, the present project constitutes Phase I of the 7-year
bacldog clearance program (see para 4.3). As regards to (b) above, the main proposed
actions, some of which have already been initiated following IDA-Government-UNDP
consultation) are: (i) setting up and strengthening of a semi-independent SLRA,
dedicated to managing road maintenance and construction; (ii) switching the bulk of
road maintenance activity from force-account operations to private contracting, to
reduce costs and improve efficiency and in the process promote the growth of domestic
contracting; (iii) setting up a Road Fund funded from road user charges, particularly a
road levy on fuel consumption to provide a regular flow of funds for road maintenance,
supplemented by the budget with Govermnent's assurance of timely release of
allocations; and (iv) raising road-user charges sufficiently to meet essential routine and
periodic maintenance needs.



10
C.    Reforms Underway
3.10  In order to avoid recurrence of the institutional and financial failures
experienced in the past, particularly during the last IDA project (para 2.20), many of
the actions listed under 3.9 are in progress, with considerable up-front action already
taken by Government, as noted below:
(a)    The Sierra Leone Parliament ratified on February 27, 1992 the Sierra
Leone Road Authority (SLRA) Act which set up the SLRA; it is
expected to be fully operational from January 1, 1993. The present
project will provide substantial technical assistance and other support to
make SLRA a strong and efficient organization. Key features of the
SLRA and the transition plan for making it fully operational are
discussed in para 3.11 and Annex 3-6;
(b)    Government has agreed to retrench excess staff, and to transfer from
DOW only essential personnel to SLRA, including personnel for two
mobile maintenance units. SLRA will gradually assign the bulk of road
maintenance to private contractors during the next 3 years, in line with
the growth in domestic contractor capacity which will be promoted
under the project;
(c)    A Road Fund, dedicated to road maintenance and funded from road user
charges collected as part of the fuel tax, was set up in 1990 by cabinet
decision, and is incorporated into the SLRA Act. The Road Fund levy
on gasoline which was 26 leones in 1991 (about 5 US cents equivalent)
per imperial gallon 1/ and on July 1, 1992 was raised to 100 leones
(US 20 cents equivalent per gallon) in consultation with IDA. The
proposed credit will seek covenants to ensure that the Road Fund and
Government budgetary releases would be adequate and would flow
regularly, and that guidelines for the use of the Road Fund will be
agreed with IDA (paras 4.23 and 4.33); and
(d)    Government raised the price of petroleum by 100% in 1991 to a current
price of 900 leones (US$1.80 equivalent) per imperial gallon and has
agreed under RIC to retain this dollar value against inflation. As a
result, the road user charge collection is now about US$22 million
equivalent, as against an estimated US$20 million needed for both
periodic and routine maintenance of the total network even assuming the
full network to be operational. Many sections are not operational and
maintainable at present, and present maintenance costs may gradually
increase from US$5 million in 1993 to about US$20 million in year
2005, when the full network would be rehabilitated and be maintainable.
It is expected that the present rehabilitation/reconstruction phase to catch
up with past backlogs will be supported by foreign funding, while road
user fees will cover all regular maintenance needs of the network (see
1/ At this rate, the estimated annual accrual to Road Fund will be about US$5 m equivalent
in 93-94, about 20% of total fuel taxes.



11
Annex 3-7). Agreement was obtained during negotiations that the road
user charges would continue in the future to cover full estimated
maintenance needs for the road network.
3.11   Details on the new organization set up under SLRA and of transition
arrangements from DOW to SLRA in the near future are summarized below:
(a)    The main features of the SLRA organization are: It is semi-independent
with authority to sign and award contracts, hire and fire staff, fix salary
levels higher than Government staff, receive the bulk of its funds for
road maintenance from a Road Fund as allocated by Parliament, and
levy other road user charges subject to the approval of Parliament. It
will receive other funds needed for road expenditure and SLRA
recurrent costs through parliamentary appropriations. Its Board and
Director General are appointed by the President. It is subject to
external audit by independent auditors. SLRA will administratively
report to the Secretary of State (Minister) for Department of Works, it
will submit its annual budget through the Minister for parliamentary
approval. SLRA will have a staff of about 1,400, which is about 23%
of the road staff in the DOW in early 1992;
(b)    Progress in making SLRA operational: Following the enactment of the
SLRA Act in February 1992, steps taken to make SLRA fully
operational are: its Board and Director General were appointed in
August 1992. The Chief Technical Adviser from UN, who will oversee
technical assistance and training to be provided by UNDP, EC, and
IDA (para. 4.9) and will provide technical advice to the Director
General of SLRA, started work in September 1992. Though SLRA is
legally in existence, it will become operational only by January 1993 by
completing steps described below;
(c)    Other key steps for making SLRA o2erational by March 1993 as agreed
with Government and the new SLRA Director General are: (i) the
SLRA Board will approve salary scales and benefits, expected to be
based on recommendations in the UNDP expert's report on
establishment of SLRA (OSIL87/008, October '90); (ii) SLRA will
select officials for key positions, through advertisement and screening,
both from DOW and outside, expected to be done during October -
December 1992; (iii) SLRA will appoint all departmental heads (for the
five departments), other key staff, and the chief financial adviser and
accountant to set up SLRA's financial and accounting system, (expert
provided by EC) before March 31, 1993; (iv) all road related buildings
and equipment including regional offices will be transferred from DOW
to SLRA before March 31, 1993; and (v) SLRA will be transferred to a
new temporary location from present DOW offices by December 31,
1992. These steps will enable SLRA to be operational before March
31, 1993. A condition of credit effectiveness is the commencement of
SLRA operations with essential facilities and key staff, which is defined
as: appointment of all departmental heads and at least 250 SLRA staff
and the chief financial adviser and accountant, and steps (iv) and



12
(v) above. Additional technical and logistical support funded through
the proposed project from UNDP, EC and IDA would be in place by
August 1993, thus making SLRA a fully operational organization.
D.    The Construction Indutry
3.12   According to a study of the domestic construction industry carried out in 1985
with financing under the Second Highway Project, the industry is at an early stage of
development. Only a few small domestic contractors exist (about 30) and they are
mainly in building construction, due to the paucity of road contracts in the recent past.
Some of these firms have indicated willingness to equip themselves and compete for
road works. In addition, there are four foreign contracting firms in the country with
experience in road works, who would bid for both big and small contracts. Although
some nationals participate in construction companies owned jointly with foreign
enterprises, they are constrained by the lack of continuity of civil engineering works,
and the past practice of the Government carrying out all routine maintenance operations
with departmental forces and larger periodic works through contracts which have
generally been won by foreign firms. It is expected that Government's new policy of
contracting out road maintenance (para 4.8) will provide an incentive to competent local
firms to re-emerge.
3.13  It is the intention of the Government under the project to encourage the
development of small (micro level) domestic firms capable of bidding on small routine
maintenance contracts involving labor-intensive works calling for a minimum of
equipment. The main requirement to encourage the development of small contracting
firms is the knowledge that bids will be called for on a consistent basis. This will
encourage small firms to gradually build up small equipment holdings of a few trucks
and light road maintenance equipment such as graders and loaders, so that they can
eventually bid on larger works in the future. The project provides for training and for
hiring out of small tools and equipment to help develop such firms (para 4.8).
IV. THEPRJC
A.    Poject Objectiva
4.1   The project will complement and reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance to Sierra
Leone in support of its economic recovery program. The main project objectives are:
(a)    To remove physical bottlenecks in the country's transport network, in
order to promote supply response from the economic recovery program,
through a sustainable road rehabilitation and maintenance program;
(b)   To build institutional capacity to better plan and manage the repair and
maintenance of roads, and promoting a sustainable system for funding
road maintenance;



13
(c)    To strengthen transport sector institutions to improve sector
management, planning and to foster market-oriented policies;
(d)    To encourage new methods of infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance, using appropriate labor-intensive technology and local
resources, in order to increase employment generation and to provide
sustainable maintenance systems;
(e)    To increase the share of private sector participation in road
maintenance, and develop capacity of small-sized contractors to maintain
the road network; and
(f)    To promote the use of non-motorized transport (NMI) to reduce
headloading by women and to increase rural mobility, improving
transport services available for the rural poor.
A tentative set of indicators for monitoring performance including achievement of the
project objectives was agreed during negotiations (Annex 417).
B.    project Descrition
4.2    The main project components are as listed below, with a further description
given in subsequent paragraphs:
(a)    Trunk Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance: (i) rehabilitation and
strengthening of about 357 km of paved and 136 km of gravel roads in
the trunk road network; (ii) improvement of the Central Buiness
District (CBD) of Freetown, through rehabilitation of main roads (20
kim); and (iii) maintenance of trunk roads by contract including support
for developing small-sized local contractors, and for the use of labor-
intensive construction technology.
(b)    Strengthening of Road Management Institutions: (i) technical assistance
to help organize, manage and train SLRA and its staff, and train
domestic contractors; (ii) training of SLRA staff at local institutions and
overseas; (iii) maintenance equipment, spares and vehicles for limited
amount of force account capability in SLRA for road maintenance; and
(iv) provision of office facilities and other logistical support for SLRA.
(c)    Supoort to Department of Works: (i) office equipment and facilities.
(d)    Support to Transport Sector Institutions: (i) technical assistance,
training and office equipment for the DTC to improve sector planning
and policies, and for key sector studies.
(e)    Pilot Program for Promotion of Non-Motorized Transport: (i) support
for development of NMT in the rural areas including assistance to
NGOs.



14
(f)    Technical Assistance for Project Design and Supervision: (i) consultant
services for engineering design and project supervision.
4.3    Trunk Road Rehabilitation atem (a)(i)): (See Map No.IBRD 23597). Annex
I gives a description of the Government's seven year program (1993-99) to reduce the
backlog of reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance needs on the trunk roads,
major city streets and feeder roads in the country. It is divided into two phases, with
Phase I (1993-96) which includes the most immediate priorities within the limits of
available funding. Selection of these road priorities was based on consultant's studies
completed in 1989 under the Second Road Rehabilitation Project, and updated by Bank
and DOW staff. The roads under Phase II, which are also of high priority, are
expected to be covered through a future follow-up project.
4.4    The proposed project will support a four-year time slice (Phase I) of the seven
year program, excluding certain major reconstruction works which are in progress with
the support of other donor agencies such as the AfDB and EC. A feeder roads
rehabilitation program will be undertaken concurrently under the Bank/IDA financed
Agricultural Sector Support Project (para 3.4). About 357 km of paved, 136 km of
gravel roads (excluding Freetown city roads discussed below) are to be rehabilitated
under the proposed project. The paved roads (Annex 4-2i are along the two main east-
west corridors of the country and include sections of the Freetown-Waterloo-Kenema
road in the agriculturally rich southeast part of the country, and sections of the
Waterloo to Sefadu road in the diamond mining areas in the east. The rehabilitation of
paved roads consists mainly of rebuilding the base course with crusher-run aggregate
and applying a surface course of double bituminous surface treatment.
4.5    The unpaved roads selected for rehabilitation/regravelling under the project
include Mile 91-Robol Junction (52 km), Panlap-Sendegu Junction (32 km), and
Sendegu Junction-Kamakwie (52 km). The gravel roads require reshaping and
regravelling of the existing road surface, and repair and improvement of drainage
facilities. During negotiations. agreement was obtained on the list of roads to be
included in the trunk road rehabilitation component of the project.
4.6   Improvement of the Freetown CBD/City Roads atem (a) (ii)): Years of neglect
has resulted in a serious deterioration of traffic flow, pavement surface, and drainage
channels in Freetown, particularly the main Central Business District (CBD) area.
Traffic congestion in the CBD area is a major constraint for the entire transport system
because both the seaport traffic and airport traffic have to pass through this area. As a
first step towards restoration and improvement of traffic flow in the CBD and other
main areas in Freetown, about 20 km of streets, including drainage and sidewalks, are
proposed to be rehabilitated under the project (Annex 4-3!. During negotiations.
agreement was obtained on the list of CBD and city streets to be included in the project.
The project will also finance a municipal city road engineer as expert to help supervise
this component, and to build up a road maintenance unit in the Freetown City Council.
Some logistical support for this unit will also be provided. Details of the duties of the
municipal engineer are given in Annex 43. An urban water and infrastructure project,
which would focus on improving urban infrastructure and city administration in
Freetown and other main towns, is now under preparation with IDA assistance, which
is expected to complement the RRMP.



15
4.7   Consultants appointed in November 1991 under a Japanese Grant (US$500,000
equivalent) administered by IDA are preparing the detailed engineering design for trunk
road rehabilitation covering all Phase I and some Phase II roads (paras 4.3 - 4.5)
including detailed engineering of city streets (para 4.6). Funding under the Grant was
supplemented by PPF advances made by the Association in April 1992 and September
1992 (totalling US$900,000), which will cover bidding and evaluation of tenders as
well.
4.8   Road Maintenance by Contract (Item (a) (iii)): The objective under
this component is to use USAID and other Government funds to carry out emergency
repairs and routine maintenance of: (i) priority trunk and feeder roads, and
(ii) Freetown city drainage and streets, in a way which will promote small private
contractors, through provision of tools, small equipment, advice and training, and the
use of labor-intensive techniques. This will help establish a sustainable road
maintenance system. The contractors would come from Government workers with road
works experience and who have been laid off from DOW and from the open market.
UNDP through the ILO will support this component through technical assistance for
supervision, contractor training, and tools and minor equipment for on-the-job
contractor training (Annex 4-4. In addition to the small domestic firms who will
benefit from the contractor training and contract works provided under the project,
about 2,500 out of DOW's retrenched workers will be employed by SLRA as "One-
man Contractors' (OMC) for routine maintenance by 1996. Agreement was obtained
during negotiations that by 1996, particularly after the expected development of small
contractors, about 50% each of periodic and routine road maintenance will be carried
out through private contractors.
4.9   Training and Manpower Development for SLRA (Item (b)(iD: Many of the key
personnel to be transferred from DOW to SLRA have good experience and are
competent but SLRA would need considerable expatriate support initially. The
consultant report on establishment of SLRA gives details of the proposed organizational
structure and key staff positions for the SLRA. To assist in the initial planning and to
organize the authority, the UNDP in association with Bank appointed a Chief Technical
Adviser for SLRA to prepare and supervise provision of technical assistance, training
and operational advice to SLRA. This is for an initial period of one year, to be
extended for 2 more years under UNDP funding for the SLRA project. Furthermore,
the project will provide for technical assistance in key line positions involving a Road
Maintenance Specialist (24 mm); a Planning and Contracts Specialist (24 mm); a Chief
Financial Adviser and Accountant to set up and supervise the financial and accounting
systems (24 mm); a Manpower Development Expert (24 mm); a Mechanical Engineer/
Equipment Specialist (36 mm); and Management Information System Specialist (24 mm)
and short-term inputs of a Construction Industry Specialist to assist local contractors
(6 mm); and an Engineering Economist (6 mm); and in addition, a Project Coordinator
(36 mm) to assist in supervision of RRMP (see Annmx 4-.5.
4.10 Training of SLRA Staff (Item (b)(ii)): The consultant's report on establishment
of SLRA gives a detailed program for training of technical, administrative and manage-
ment management staff of the proposed SLRA over the project period. To enhance
capacity building, the program includes training at local institutions such as the Institute
for Public Administration Management (IPAM) and Fourah Bay College (FBC),
improvement of the Tower Hill Training Center; regional study tours and overseas
training (see Annex 4-6.



16
4.11 Purchase of Vehicles. Equipment and Spare Parts fItem (b)(iii)): The DOW ha
two mobile units for undertaking rehabilitation works on paved and gravel roads
respectively. The equipment for these units which was purchased in part with a grant
from the Japanese Government will be taken over by SLRA. The units are not
complete and they also lack the necessary spare parts and transport vehicles for road
inspectors and workers. Annex 4-7 gives details of the vehicles, equipment and spar.
parts to be acquired under the project to assist SLRA in doing limited force account
maintenance and to effectively supervise departmental and contract maintenance and
rehabilitation works in the field.
4.12 Office Facilities and Logistical Support to SLRA (Item (b)(iv)): The present
office facilities for the road unit in DOW are dilapidated and inadequate for efficient
operation of SLRA. The project provides for the reconstruction of an existing building
or construction of a new building at Kisii, where the road equipment workshop is
located, to serve as a headquarters building for SLRA for the small team of managers,
key staff and consultants needed to oversee the SLRA's operations. Essential office
furniture and equipment and other logistical support would also be provided under the
project. These components would be mostly funded by EC and UNDP. uEjang
negotiations. assurance was obtained from Government that it will continue to provide
temporary office accommodations for SLRA until its new offices are completed.
4.13   Office Equipment and Facilities to Support Department of Works atem (c)(l):
This component will provide a small amount of office equipment, mainly computers,
and vehicles for supervision of the DOW's field works, mainly the main towns,
government buildings, and coastal protection works.
4.14 Support to Ministry of Transport and Communications (Item (dYiT: A
preliminary study conducted in 1990 established the viability of using coastal and river
transport systems to complement the road transport network. Under the project, a study
would assess in more detail the technical and economic feasibility of expanding existing
water transport routes and establishing new ones. The project would also fund other
key sector studies on improved planning and sector management with market-
orientation; the future role and organization of RTC; and improved transport data
collection and analysis. The project would provide office equipment for the Planning
Unit and staff training. Draft TORs for the inland water transport study and other
sector studies are given in Annex 4-8.
4.15 Suponrt for Non-Motorized Transport and NGOs (Item (e)(i): This pilot
component will introduce low-cost, NMT (bicycles, trailers and adaptations) to the
transport system, which will reduce dependence on headloading which is a dominant
form of rural transport, mainly done by women and children. It will provide training in
local production, and will promote and assist local distribution among women and other
user groups. This component will be modeled on a successful similar project in Ghana.
Plan Intenational, the most active international NGO in Sierra Leone (with an anmual
grant program of about US$6 million) has agreed to implement the project through
about 15 credit associations, which are grassroot local NGOs which provide rural
credit, and are organized around various rural production and marketing activities. The
credit associations (NGOs) receive a two-thirds grant from Plan International and put in
one-third equity; they are efficiently run with proper auditing/ accounting, and are
monitored by Plan International. Details are given in Annex 49.



17
4.16   Bicycles and trailers will be initially given to these credit associations, who will
distribute them to their members on a hire-purchase or rental basis (except the first
batch given free of charge for trials and feedback on design). Main user groups
receiving the NMT vehicles during trial and final distribution will include women's
organizations, petty traders, vegetable growers associations, fishing groups, village
health committees and rural clinics. Since this is a promotional phase, in order to
reduce the member's investment risks and to increase acceptance by members, the
credit associations will recover from users and repay to Government only 50% of the
initial price. It is expected that if this pilot component is successful, there will be more
widespread use of NMT through normal commercial production and sale. The first
batch of vehicles to be used as prototypes (trailers and farm vehicles) could be brought
from Ghana, for trial usage and feedback. Subsequently more units would be produced
locally, mainly through NGOs of mechanics and other workshops, who will receive
training in production of the NMT units (except for bicycles which will be procured
through local suppliers from imports). Under the project, SLRA will support other
local NGOs in distribution and feedback in areas not served by Plan International, and
will oversee local production of the units through technical assistance. Studies on
monitoring and socio-economic impact will be included under the project. SLRA will
implement this pilot program in close association with the DTC; most of the pilot
project components will be implemented by SLRA through a contract with Plan
International.
4.17 Consultant Services for Project Design and Supervision (Item (fl(i):
Consultants have already been employed by DOW to prepare detailed designs and bid
documents for priority works under item (a) in para 4.2, with funding as noted in para
4.7. The designs and bid documents are substantially completed; bidding documents
will be completed and bids invited for at least one major road section before the project
is presented to the Board in December 1992 to expedite project implementation. To
enhance the capacity of SLRA to supervise construction contracts, manage and
coordinate implementation of the various components, the project provides for design
and supervision consultant services totalling 316 mm of foreign and 597 mm of local
expertise, including the services of a Project Coordinator who will have experience in
project management and procurement and a Municipal Engineer experienced in urban
engineering and street maintenance. Consultants for design are already in place, funded
from two PPF Advances and a Japanese Grant. Appointment of the Project
Coordinator and Engineering Consultants for supervising the road rehabilitation,
expected by March 1993, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
C.    Project Costs and Financin.
4.18   The estimated total cost of the project amounts to US$92.74 million (including
taxes, physical and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange cost of US$74.68
million equivalent or about 81% of total project cost (Annex 4-lo. Import duties and
taxes on project related inputs are estimated at US$6.02 million equivalent. Physical
contingencies tailored to each project component average about 10% of base cost. Price
contingencies have been derived from the following projected rates of inflation: foreip
0.8% in 1992/93, 1.7% in 1993/94 and 3.6% in 1994/95 - 1996/97; and local 37.1% in
1992/93, 21% in 1993/94 and 10% in 1994/95 - 1996/97. Costs have been estimated at
mid-1992 prices and at an exchange rate of US$1 = 500 Leones. Projected exchange



18
rates used are US$1 = Leones 520 in 1992/93, Le 600 in 1993/94, and Le 638 in
1994/95 - 1996/97.
4.19   The project includes technical assistance for institutional renhning and
caRacity building, totalling about US$7.3 million equivalent with components for:
(i) contractor training; (ii) experts in line management and advisory positions to assist in
building up SLRA; (iii) training for SLRA staff; and (iv) support for transport sector
planning and studies. It also includes technical assistance for engineering design and
project supervision (costing about US$5.6 million equivalent). These items, to be
financed by UNDP, EC, AfDB and IDA, amount to US$12.9 million, out of the total
project cost of US$92.7 million. The total man-months for technical assistance and
supervision is estimated at 1,435 (694 expatriate and 741 local). Some competent local
consultants are available, who will get further boost through expected foreign
collaboration providing technical assistance under the project. The high level of
technical assistance is essential to help build-up the institutional capacity of the new
SLRA for sustaining road maintenance, and for adequate project design and
supervision, and is a response to lessons learned from past projects (para 2.21).
4.20   Costs estimated for rehabilitation and periodic road maintenance are based on
LCB and ICB contract costs per km which amount on average to US$15,000 for
regravelling, US$35,000 for rehabilitation of gravel roads, US$28,400 for resealing,
US$95,000-150,000 for rehabilitation of base and double surface treatment, and
US$250,000-300,000 for rehabilitation with asphalt concrete wearing surface. For both
international and local consultants, recent all-inclusive m/m rates in Sierra Leone are
used. For routine road maintenance, workshop, training and office equipment, 1992
prices are used as a basis. The cost estimates were confirmed during negotiations.
4.21   The project costs and financing plan are summarized in the table below with
details in Annexes 4-10 and 4-11. It is proposed to finance US$45.00 million or about
52% of total project cost (excluding taxes and duties) from IDA funds; Government will
pass on the IDA funds to SLRA as a grant for funding the agreed project components.
The IDA funding will cover about 93% of rehabilitation cost on the selected trunk roads
Taiama-Bo-Blama-Kenema, Makeni-Matotoka, Mile 91-Robol Jct., and Wellington-
Waterloo roads (amounting to US$27.7 million); 93% of rehabilitation costs for
Freetown CBD and main streets (amounting to US$8.4 million); and 95-100% of
related design, supervision, project management, training, vehicles and equipment costs
(amounting to US$8.9 million). The GOSL is expected to cover US$10.9 million
equivalent or about 12% of total costs (about 6% net of taxes and duties). Cofinancing
agencies are expected to cover the balance of US$36.9 million. The European
Community (EC) has confirmed its interest to finance specified road components; in
addition, EC and UNDP have agreed to fund selected components in the technical
assistance, logistical support and other facilities for SLRA, which together with
proposed IDA components, will provide a complete package of support to SLRA as
recommended in the consultant's report on establishing SLRA accepted by all concerned
agencies. Discussions are at an advanced stage with the African Development Bank
(AfDB) to finance a portion of the civil works program amounting to US$14.4 million
(an appraisal mission was in the field in September 1992). The Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) has confirmed its interest in funding the maintenance
equipment component (US$5.0 million).



19
Summary of Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$m)
Component (a)             TOTAL    IDA    GOSL    AfDB        UNDP   JICA      eC
1. Trunk Road Rehab.                  52.56   27.74    3.94      12.26                    8.62
2. Freetown CBD Rehab.                 8.97    8.40    0.57
3. Contact Maintenance & Support for  10.20    2.45    5.52       0.77    1.46
Domestic Contractors
4. Technical Assistance to SLRA        4.81    0.75                       2.59             1.47
5. SLRA Office and Logistics           1.70    0.40    0.04               0.26             1.00
6. Road Maintenance and Equipment (SLRA)  6.21         0.40               0.81   5.00
7. Training SLRA                       1.05    0.21               0.27    0.57
8. Support to Department of Works      0.30    0.30
9. Support to Transport Sector         0.57    0.51    0.06
10. Pilot Program for NMT               0.81    0.74    0.07
11. Project Design and Supervision      5.56    3.50    0.25       1.05                    0.76
TOTAL PROJECT COST (b)                 92.74   45.00   10.85      14.35    5.69   5.00    11.85
(a) Includes price and physical contingencies
(b) Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding-off.
4.22   The IDA components have been selected such that the IDA program will not be
adversely affected if cofinancing were delayed. The road components are discrete items and
delay in cofinancing arrangements will not adversely affect the IDA-funded roads. The main
component for which joint funding is envisaged is for institutional and logistical support for
SLRA, which will be co-funded with EC and UNDP; EC and UNDP have agreed in principle
with the GOSL and the Bank to fund their respective components. As part of this program,
UNDP has already appointed the Chief Technical Adviser to SLRA (para 3.11), and also
started contractor training by extending the role of an existing ILO advisor; and EC has
invited proposals and is finalizing appointment of a Financial Adviser and Accountant to
SLRA, expected to start work by January 1993. To insulate IDA project execution from
delays in this regard, IDA will fund the most critical elements in this component (project
coordination and management, and initial training of SLRA officials) needed for project
implementation. During neeotiations Government's commitment was obtained to pursue these
funding arrangements and to obtain before January 31, 1993 letters of commitment/intent
from EC and UNDP to finance the technical assistance and related components for SLRA.
4.23   In addition to the Government contribution for project funding, Government should
also finance regular maintenance of the road system, counterpart funds for other rehabilitation
projects, and SLRA's operating costs. These will be met from the Road Fund (see below)
and topping-up from budget as needed. Annex 412 gives estimated annual budgetary
allocations during the project period to cover these needs. Government has already
announced an increase to 100 Leones (20 US cents equivalent) per gallon in Road Fund fee
for the budget year of July 1992-June 1993 (para 3.10). In order to ensure smooth flow of a
core level of funds to the project and for the maintenance program, the following assurances
were obtained during negotiations: (a) agreement on estimates of annual local funding needs
for the road sector during 1993-97 (Annex 4-12), which will be further reviewed annually in



20
April or May; (b) confirmation that the Road Fund fee included in the fuel tax will be
maintained in value at least at the level of 20 US cents equivalent per gallon, in December
1992 prices, up to December 1998; (c) confirmation that the Road Fund fee will
automatically, on a weekly basis, accrue to SLRA's Road Fund account for SLRA's use, as
envisaged in the SLRA Act, and that the Road Fund Account in SLRA's name has been
opened; (d) agreement that SLRA should present to the Association annual and quarterly
estimates of the project expenditure and other SLRA expenditure, one month prior to the start
of each financial year; (e) Government will provide, for each quarter, estimated needs of
budget topping-up needed during the quarter to cover agreed road sector needs (to supplement
Road Fund accruals) and deposit it into an SLRA account at the start of each quarter; (f) six-
monthly financial and work verification audits of Road Fund expenditures will be conducted
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, in addition to regular annual audits of SLRA accounts; and the audit
reports will be submitted to the Association within six months after close of each audit period
(see also para 4.35); (g) SLRA will prompdy meet project counterpart expenditures as a first
claim on its Road Fund and other accounts; and (h) Government and SLRA will agree with
IDA before January 31, 1993 on the guidelines for use of Road Fund proceeds so that within
the provisions of the SLRA Act, the Road Fund will be used only for road maintenance and
rehabilitation. It was also confirmed/agreed that: (i) SLRA salaries will be paid from
Government allocations for its recurrent budget, as provided in the SLRA Act, and (ii) that
SLRA salary structure and aggregate salary budget will be maintained at the levels agreed by
SLRA's Board, subject to reasonable inflationary and other adjustments, the aggregate salary
budget being about 920 million leones in October 1992 prices. Items (i) and (ii) will ensure
that SLRA salaries will be competitive so as to attract and retain competent staff from the
local market and at the same time SLRA will make sure that personnel costs are not increased
at the expense of road maintenance works. Appointment of external auditors for audit of the
first two six-month periods from July 1992 to June 1993 under item (f) and payment of an
initial deposit of Leones 200 million into the Project Account, are conditions of credit
effectiveness.
D.    Status of Project PreRaration
4.24  Preparation for major institutional reforms in the sector mainly through the setting up
of the SLRA and Road Fund were completed during 1990-92, leading to Parliamentary
approval for setting up the SLRA, and its gradual staffing and operations now in progress
(paras 3.10 and 3.11). Government has already raised overall road user charges to adequate
levels. Preparation for road rehabilitation, prioritization and preliminary engineering was
completed by international consultants in 1988, funded through the Second Highway Project.
Detailed engineering and bid documentation for the selected roads is now substantially
completed (para 4.17). The detailed engineering covers all roads including those expected to
be funded by cofinanciers; bid documentation for some key road sections to be funded by
IDA have been completed and bids will be invited by lanuay 1993, so that contracts can be
awarded soon after credit effectiveness. Other components have been prepared in detail
including TOR for studies under DTC components; list of equipment to be procured for DOW
and DTC; implementation details for the NMT component; and draft TOR for Technical
Assistance including invitation of consultants' proposals on priority items. These details were
confirmed during negotiations.



21
E.    Ime at
4.25   The bulk of the project which consists of road rehabilitation, will be implemented by
SLRA. Timely appointment of key staff for SLRA will be made as spelled out in para 3.11.
SLRA's Board, chief executive, and chief technical adviser (funded by UNDP) have already
been appointed, while a project coordinator with experience in project management and
procurement, and engineering consultants for supervision of the IDA-funded road works, and
key support staff will be appointed before credit effectiveness (para 4.17). The component
for the improvement of roads in Freetown's CBD will be implemented by SLRA, in close
consultation with the City Council which presently has limited capacity. A Municipal
Engineer provided under the project to City Council will liaise with SLRA on the CBD/city
streets component, while also developing a road maintenance unit in the City Council. The
NMT component will be implemented by SLRA under a contract with Plan International
(paras 4.15 and 4.16). The local training components funded under IDA will be implemented
by SLRA under contract with two local training institutions (FBC and IPAM) with supervision
and advice from the UN expert (para 3.11). The project coordinator will report to the head
of SLRA, and as SLRA staffing builds up, all relevant SLRA units will support the project.
To coordinate and monitor the project, a project coordination team will be established before
March 31, 1993 under the Director General of SLRA which will have members from different
SLRA departments, the Project Coordinator, the Chief Municipal Engineer and a senior
official of the DTC. The project coordination team under the head of SLRA will be
responsible for managing procurement, providing management information systems,
supervising IDA's special account, preparing withdrawal applications and monitoring and
reviewing progress. The transport sector components will be managed by DTC, but
coordinated through SLRA.
4.26  The project is scheduled for completion by December 1997. This is feasible as
legislation establishing the SLRA has already been passed and its Board members and
Director General have been appointed, and project preparation is well advanced. Also SLRA
will be assisted substantially by consultants and contractors. Project preparation is already in
an advanced stage. Nevertheless, SLRA's progress and the adequacy of the Government's
support will need to be reviewed frequently during implementation (see para 4.38).
Annx 413 gives the implementation schedule. Though past projects have been plagued by
procurement and implementation delays (paras 2.20 and 2.21), the start of this project is
conditional on substantial institutional and funding reforms (such as establishing SLRA and
Road Fund), which have been completed or will be completed before the credit is effective
(para 4.23). These reforms and the project design with parallel cofinancing (in lieu of joint-
financing) will help avoid similar problems.
F.    Procurnent
4.27   The procurement arrangements are as summarized below (Annex 414 gives more
details):



22
Procurement Arrangement
(USS million)
(IDA shares in parentheses)
Component            ICB    LCB   Other  N.B.F. (a)    Total
1. Civil Works               35.2    7.7               26.5       69.4
(33.1)  (4.7)                       (37.8)
2. Equipment and Vehicles     0.5    0.5    0.9         6.7        8.6
(0.4)  (0.3)  (0.8)                 (1.5)
3. Technical Assistance:
* Project Implementation                4.7         2.0        6.7
(4.4)                 (4.4)
* Capacity Building                     0.9         5.3        6.2
(0.8)                 (0.8)
4. Training and Other Support               0.6                    1.8
(0.5)                 (0.5)
TOTAL PROJECT                35.7    8.2    7.1        41.7       92.7
(33.5)  (5.0)  (6.5)                (45.0)
(a) Not Bank Financed.
Not: Figures rounded.
4.28  All procurement activities will be coordinated and managed by SLRA mainly through
its Project Coordinator. Co-financing components under the project will be procured on a
parallel-financing basis and will follow the applicable guidelines of the respective financing
agency. Goods and civil works contracts financed by IDA will be carried out in accordance
with IDA procurement guidelines. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that all
procurement of goods through ICB under the credit will be exempt from pre-shipment
inspection for price by the Government nominated Inspection Agency, but quality and quantity
inspection could be done by the agency.
4.29  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost individually more than US$0.5 million and
for goods more than US$300,000 will be procured by ICB. Civil works contracts estimated
to cost less than US$0.5 million and goods valued from US$60,000 to US$300,000 would be
procured by LCB procedures which will include: local advertising, public opening, clearly
stated evaluation criteria; contract award to be made to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder; foreign bidders not to be excluded if they wish to participate. The first LCB
document will be reviewed by the Bank before it is released to the bidders. Five ICB civil
works contracts, ranging in value from US$3 million to US$12 million are likely, and there
may be about 25 LCB contracts ranging from US$0.1 million to US$0.5 million. The LCB
contracts would consist of small regravelling and other maintenance works scattered over the
country and/or city street drainage and sidewalk rehabilitation, and spread over a period of



23
4-5 years. It is expected that there will be sufficient competition for the LCB contracts (paras
3.12 and 3.13). The aggregate value of civil works under LCB will be limited to US$7.7
million, and for goods up to US$0.5 million (including bicycles for the NMT component).
Goods valued at less than US$60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate value of US$0.5
million will be procured by prudent shopping based on at least three quotations; this includes
purchase of materials needed for training local workshops in producing NMT units (para
4.16). Spare parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature, and prototypes for the
NMT component, may be purchased, with prior agreement with IDA, under directly
negotiated contracts from original manufacturers/suppliers or their authorized agents, within
an aggregate value of US$0.4 million. Procurement documentation for all transactions under
IDA financing in excess of US$300,000 equivalent will be subject to prior re.view by IDA.
During negotiations agreement was obtained that: (i) consultants for engineering designs,
civil works contract supervision, studies, and training will be selected following Bank
guidelines for selection of consultants; and (ii) Bank's Sample Bidding Documents, Letter of
Invitation, and Sample Consultants' Contract suitably modified, will be used for engaging
suppliers, contractors and consultants.
4.30   Consistent with the social objectives of the project for improving transport services for
the poor and rural women and to support NGOs, implementation of the pilot program for
NMT at a total cost of US$0.81 million including technical assistance and studies (Annex 4-
2), will be as follows:
(a)   the implementation of many aspects of this component will be given on
contract to Plan International (P.I.), an NGO (para 4.15). The contract will
cover training of local producers, mainly NGOs; running demonstration
project for distribution of NMT vehicles to users for trial and feed-back;
arranging procurement from local producers and final distribution to users
through local credit associations (NGOs) supported by P.I.; collection of
agreed price from users and refund to GOSL and monitoring reporting and
evaluation;
(b)   the contract will be on payment of costs plus a fee for overheads and
supervision costs comparable to contracts with UN agencies; the terms of the
contract will be acceptable to IDA; and
(c)    procurement of materials for this component by P.l. will be based on IDA
procurement rules defined in para 4.29.



24
G.      Disbursements
4.31    The project is expected to be fully disbursed by Juno 1998. The IDA credit would be
disbursed against the following categories:
IDA Amount           % of expendtur
Category                         (US$  mioiw)            to be finnced
1. Road Reabilition and Maintuanc
(including institutional support to DOW/SLRA)
(a) Civil works                                        34.12    100% of foreign costs and
85% of local oos
(b) Equipment and materials, including                   0.90        100% of fogn
vehicles                                                               expenditure
and 90% of local cosd
3.15             100%
(c) Consulant services, auditing services,
studics and oveneas training
0.2              100%
(d) Local training
0.08             100%
(e) Incremental recurrent costs 1
H. Suioort to Transoort Sector Institutions (DTC)
(a) Office equipment, facilities, materials,             0.05        100% of foreign
including vehicles                                                     expenditure
and 90% of local cost
(b) Consulant services, studies and training             0.41             100%
MI. Pilot Proeram to Promote Non-Motorized Transort
(a) Equipment, materials, including vehices              0.55             100%
(b) Technical assitance and training, including
demonstration progrms and program
management services                                      0.07             100%
(c) Support to NOOs                                     0.05              100%
(d) Incremental recurrent costsr                        0.02             100%
IV. Refund of PPF Advances                                       0.90
V. Unallocated                                                   4.50
TOTAL                                                   45.00
1'      Incremental recurrent costs of project unit, vehicle operting costb, office supplies, office operating cosb;
and project related travel expense and staff expenses, but excluding slaries to Government official.
Y'      Incremental recurrent costs related to pilot program implementation and supervision, including vehicle
opeating cost, office operting costs, office supplies, and stff expenses, but excluding salries to
Government official.



25
4.32 The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 4-1) is slightly faster than the profile
for IDA financed transport projects in Africa. This reflects advance action taken to expedite
contracting of works in anticipation of the IDA credit, and the new institutional arrangements
(SLRA) already in place and expected soon, which should make for more efficient
implementation.
H.    Spcal Account
4.33   A Special Account for IDA funds will be established at a commercial bank authorized
to deal in foreign currency and operated by SLRA. An advance not exceeding US$1.0
million will be made to the Special Account after the declaration of credit effectiveness. The
Special Account would cover all categories of expenditures, and will be replenished on the
basis of application for reimbursements made by SLRA with relevant supporting
documentation and bank statements. Reimbursement requests will be submitted to IDA on a
monthly basis irrespective of the amounts involved. IDA approved and eligible contracts for:
(a) civil works less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) goods less than US$20,000 equivalent;
and (c) consultancy contracts, training programs, studies and courses less than US$20,000
equivalent will be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). SLRA will
manage all accounting records and the preparation of supporting documents or SOEs would be
its responsibility.
X.    Accounting and Auditine
4.34   The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project related
accounts and for all SLRA accounts will be carried out in accordance with international
accounting standards. For this purpose, an international consultant to set up and supervise the
financial accounts systems in SLRA will be appointed as a condition of Credit Effectiveness
(see paras 3.11 (c) and 4.9). EC will fund this expert, and has already selected the firm with
international experience to provide this service. Annual financial statements of all project
accounts will be audited in accordance with International Auditing Guidelines by suitably
qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audits will also be carried out, at the
same time, and for corresponding periods in accordance with Bank guidelines, for SOEs
against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made out of the credit
proceeds, and specific reference will be made in the audit reports accompanying the financial
statements including incremental recurrent expenditures. In addition, there will be six-
monthly audit and work-verification of Road Fund transactions, preferably by the same
auditors who do the annual audit (para 4.23). Agreement was obtained during negotiations
that auditors will be retained to: (i) review the accounting system of SLRA; and (ii) set up
internal procedures and practices for the special and project accounts and SOEs, and
transactions of the Road Fund and SLRA accounts and to prepare long form audit rprts
which would include a management letter revealing any shortcomings with regard to systems,
records, personnel, etc. The Road Fund auditing will be particularly to ensure that its use
was made for agreed road maintenance and project funding purposes only.
J.    Reporting and Monitoring
4.35   Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by SLRA
and sent to the Bank within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will
include: (a) progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules and
key performance indicators; and (b) work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter



26
and for the total project. The main purpose of the reports will be to provide timely and
updated information on implementation of project components, highlighting issues and
problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on progress in resolving previous
recommendations. SLRA will prepare a completion report within six months of the final
disbursement in accordance with Bank guidelines. Reporting requirements and key
performance indicators were azreed duriny negotiations.
K.    Environmental ImRact
4.36   An environmental assessment has been completed recently and a mitigation plan
agreed (for details see Annex 4-16. Since the project consists mainly of rehabilitating
existing roads, there are no major environmental impacts. Reconstruction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance operations can cause occasional harm to the natural or social environment: these
impacts may include increased soil erosion due to improper design of embankments or side
drains; scouring of the landscape due to the opening of borrow pits; destruction of vegetation
during clearing operations; creation of local water logging problems; damage to soils and
vegetation due to road camp establishment and use; bitumen plant pollution; and disturbance
and changes in settlement patterns along the roads. However, these adverse impacts are
avoidable, and it was agreed with Government during negotiations that these aspects will be
taken into account during the design and implementation phase of the project, it was also
Agred that SLRA will appoint by March 31, 1993, an engineer in charge of environmental
impact assessment and monitoring and who will establish a unit within SLRA to monitor
environmental impacts and prepare mitigation plans for all road related investments. The
project will provide appropriate training to the environmental engineer as required.
4.37   Positive environmental effects are expected to result from improvements in city street
drainage and traffic flows.
L.    Project Supervision
4.38   Three to four supervision missions have been scheduled per year (see Annex 4-17).
There will be a project launch workshop in Sierra Leone for training on project
implementation details and procedures with IDA participation, before April 30, 1993. Annual
implementation reviews are needed among IDA, SLRA and the chief co-donors. They will
evaluate the adequacy of work progress and funding, and the progress being made by SLRA
in establishing itself as a road management entity and monitor other performance indicators
shown in Annex 4-17. A thorough mid-term project implementation review involving IDA,
AfDB and other co-donors, and SLRA and the DOW and the Department of Finance will be
carried out not later than June 30, 1995. This review will evaluate: (a) overall progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the first 24 months of the Project with
respect to, j i U^, key monitoring indicators agreed with the Association; (b) performance
of SLRA as executing agency for the project; (c) the adequacy of counterpart funding as well
as the level of budgetary allocations and actual expenditures for routine and recurrent
maintenance; and (d) the need for redesign or restructuring of project components with
implementation difficulties, including as necessary drafting of an action plan to be carried out
until project completion; (e) the assessment of the results of studies, technical assistance,
training programs and the development of domestic contractors under the Project; (f) progress
in reorganization of the Road Transport Corporation; and (g) relative unit costs of road works
carried out by contract and by force account. In addition, the mid-term review will:
(a) assess the results of completed studies, ongoing technical assistance and training programs;



27
and (b) agree with the Borrower on implementation of findings. This review would relate
specifically to: (a) the implementation of organization study; (b) the Road Fund and
maintenance funding; (c) the development of domestic contractors; and (d) SLRA staff and
domestic contractor training programs.
V. ECONOMIC.EVALUATION
5.1   From an economic point of view, the main objectives of the physical components of
RRMP's road improvement program are to increase the road transport capacity, reduce
transport costs and protect past investments in the highway network. The purpose of the
economic analysis is to determine the appropriate design, timing and works to be undertaken
on each road section, and to assess economic benefits from the proposed investments (see
Annex 5-1 for details).
5.2   The World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM Im) was used for
evaluation of alternative investments on each of the road sections in Phase I of the seven year
program. The model simulates the life cycle conditions and costs on each road section to
provide the economic decision criteria for multiple road maintenance and rehabilitation
alternatives.
5.3    Benefits were evaluated on a 'with and without investment' basis, derived essentially
from savings in vehicle operating costs but including the impact of variations in the costs of
road maintenance. Evaluation was based on the net present value (NPV) of all costs and
benefits and the economic rates of return (ERR) of the proposed works. The economic rate
of return was computed separately for each road section which was then selected for
implementation only if its economic return was at least 15%. The ERRs vary from 18% to
over 90% on the selected road sections, including the Freetown city roads. The weighted
average ERR for the roads component (including maintenance by contract) covering 87% of
total project costs is 34%. The benefits for the remaining project components (amounting to
13% of total costs) consisting of technical assistance, training, studies and logistical support
are high but non-quantifiable. Excluding benefits from these components but including their
costs, the composite weighted average ERR for the project is 30%, reducing to 27% if costs
are increased by 10% or benefits decreased by 10% (see Table 7 in Annex 5-1).
5.4    Due to the very poor condition of the existing roads, only rehabilitation alternatives
were considered, since periodic maintenance action such as resealing and regravelling without
rehabilitation would technically not be feasible. The alternatives considered for paved roads
were the rehabilitation of existing pavements, including an addition of 150-250 mm of crushed
stone base with double bituminous surface treatment. On gravel roads, the alternatives
considered were regravelling the surface with good quality and well compacted laterite and
doing either minor or major rehabilitation works involving drainage, structures and some
filling.
5.5   In addition to the quantified benefits in reduced vehicle operation costs, the project
would produce many other unquantified benefits, such as: (a) strengthening road maintenance
management and funding to provide sustained maintenance and to protect road investments;
(b) improving the urban environment by reducing congestion and upgrading dilapidated
facilities in the Freetown CBD; (c) alleviating rural poverty by promoting affordable low-cost



28
NMT, which will also help relieve headloading by women; and (d) promoting domestic
entrepreneurship in maintenance contracting and labor-intensive technology which generates
more employment.
5.6    ErMjegtRisks: The main risk is the repetition of Government's past failure to provide
regular counterpart funding and adequate project management. These risks have been
minimized (a) by setting up a semi-autonomous SLRA to manage the road sector in general
and such projects in particular, and (b) by legislation setting up a Road Fund and the recent
increases in fuel taxes which should provide the necessary funding on a timely basis. The
proposed provision of expatriate help and training to SLRA will help build up strong project
management. Nevertheless, as noted in para 4.39, thorough supervision of the project is
called for and will be provided.
VI. AGREEMENT AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negoiations, agreement was obtained from the Government of Sierra Leone
and SLRA on the following matters:
(a)    Consultants will be engaged to carry out and complete, by June 30, 1994, a
study on the future role of RTC, including the scope of restructuring/
privatization; and the Public Enterprise Divestiture Committee will make a
decision on RTCs future, in consultation with IDA, by September 30, 1994
and to implement agreed changes thereafter (para 2.7);
(b)   A review of SLPA's functions will be completed by December 31, 1993 with
a view to streamlining its operations (para 2.9);
(c)    Transport sector investment plans will be reviewed annually with the
Association, and IDA will be consulted before undertaking new transport
projects exceeding US$3 million equivalent outside the agreed annual plans
(para 2.19);
(d)   Road user charges collected would continue to be adequate in the future to
cover the estimated full maintenance needs for the road network (para 3.10
(d));
(e)    The list of roads to be included in the project (paras 4.5 and 4.6);
(f)    By 1996, particularly after the expected development of small contractors,
about 50% each of periodic and routine road maintenance will be carried out
through private contractors compared to almost nil at present (para 4.8);
(g)   Temporary office accommodations will continue to be provided for SLRA
until its new offices are completed (para 4.12);
(h)   Confirmation of the project cost estimates (para 4.20);



29
(O)    Government to finalize funding arrangements with other co-donors (para
4.22); and to obtain before January 31, 1993, letters of commitment/intent
from EC and UNDP to finance technical assistance to SLRA;
(I)   (i) an estimate of local funding needs for the road sector during 1993-97
which will be reviewed annually; (ii) the road user fee will be maintained in
value at least at the level of US$0.20 equivalent per gallon in real terms (in
December 1992 prices) up to December 1998; (iii) the Road Fund fee will
automatically, on a weekly basis, accrue to SLRA's Road Fund account for
SLRA's use, as envisaged in the SLRA Act; (iv) SLRA will present to the
Association annual and quarterly estimates of the project expenditure, one
month prior to the start of each financial year; (v) Government will provide,
during each quarter, estimated needs of budget topping-up needed during the
quarter to cover agreed road sector needs and deposit it into an SLRA account
at the start of each quarter; (vi) six-month financial and work verification
audits of Road Fund and other SLRA funds will be conducted by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and the audit reports submitted to the Association
within six months after close of each audit period (see also pan 4.35);
(vii) guidelines for use of Road Fund proceeds will be agreed before January
31, 1993 (para 4.23);
(k)    SLRA salary and other recurrent costs to be met from Government allocations
for its recurrent budget, as provided in SLRA Act; and SLRA salary structure
and levels to be maintained in real terms at levels agreed by SLRA Board
(para 4.23);
(I)    All procurement of goods through ICB under the credit will be exempt from
pre-shipment price inspection by the Government nominated Inspection
Agency (para 4.28);
(in)   Consultants for engineering designs, civil works contract supervision, studies
and training will be selected following Bank guidelines for selection of
consultants; and Sample Bank Bidding Documents, Letter of Invitation and
Sample Consultant Contract suitably modified will be used for engaging
contractors and consultants (para 4.29);
(n)    Auditors to be retained to review the accounting system of SLRA, and set up
internal procedures and practices for the special and project accounts and
SOEs and the Road Fund transactions and to prepare audit reports Oong form)
which would include a management letter (para 4.34);
(o)    Reporting requirements and key indicators for monitoring progress (para 4.35
and Annex 4-1O;
(p)    Adequate steps will be taken, during the design and construction phase, to
mitigate any adverse environmental impacts of the proposed road project, and
that by March 31, 1993, SLRA will appoint on its staff an engineer in charge
of environmental impact assessment and monitoring (para 4.36); and



30
(q)    Supervision schedule, project launch workshop and mid-term implementation
review (para 4.38).
6.2    Conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(a)   completion of key appointments and other agreed steps, including the
appointment of all department heads and 250 key staff in SLRA and the chief
financial adviser and accountant for SLRA (para 3.11(c));
(b)   the appointment of external auditors for the first two six-month periods
covering July 1992 to June 1993 (para 4.23);
(c)   the appointment of a project coordinator, and of engineering consultants for
supervision of road rehabilitation works (paras 4.17 and 4.25); and
(d)    payment of an initial deposit of Leona 200 million into the Project Account.
6.3    Recommendation: Based on the agreements reached on the above conditions, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$45.0 million equivalent on standard terms.



31
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Statistics
Number of Motor Vehicles in Operation, 1986 - 1991
Number of Vehicles Licensed
Type of Vehicles       1986        1987         1988        1989        1990         1991
Private Cars         20,026       21,725      22,049      23,150       23,822      24,760
Taxis                 3,214        3,244       3,418       5,862        5,970       5,99S
Light Vans            5,018        6,095       6,281       6,809        6,520       6,543
Lorries                1,190       1,260       1,312       2,502        3,748       3,858
Pod& Pods/Buses         574         650          702         850         985        1,010
Motorcycls            8,302        9,060       9,486       9,827        9,938      10,134
Tracton                  60          64           42          75          41           43
Trilers                  nil         48           31          27           37          47
Cranes & Dumpers         66          nil          18          13           8           14
Caterpillar              20          25           12          nil         nil           2
Rollers                  nil         nil          nil         nil         nil          nil
Source: Licensing Authority, Predown



32                                Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILfTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehice Statics
New Vehide Registrations, 1986 - 1991
Number of Vehicles Licensed
Type of Vehicles                   1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991
Private Car                         815         586         624       1,266         773         933
Taxis                                21          38          42         900          96          25
Light Vans                          426         313         296         569         155         223
Lorries                             180         131         122         181         300         110
Pods Podb/Buses                      65          43          78          57         119          25
Motorcycks                          617         352         500         536          S8         196
Tractor.                              9           6           2          98           2           2
Trilers                               4          10          nil         nil         40          10
Crmnes & Dumpcn                      10           1          15          13           1           6
Caterpius                             1          nil          3          nil          9           2
RoUes                               nil          nil         nil         nil          2          n
Source: Licmeing Authority, Freetown



33                                  Annex 2-2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sierra Leone Por& Authority
Traffic Statstics in '000 Metric Tonnes
(1986- 1991)
Year/Trfi               1985/86       1986187      1987/88       1988/89      1989/0         19(1/91
Generml Cargo          425,538       421,599      380,062       349,118      354,401         361,502
Imports        369,735       385,214      345,563       304,201      308,818         315,012
Exports         55,803        36,385       34,499        44,917       45,583          46,490
a.      The SLPA does not handle the discharge or loading of petroleum products. This is done by the oil
refinery.
b.      Loading of minerals, bauxite and rutile is done by the mining companies themselves at the Port of Niti
and not by SLPA or at the Port of Frestown.
Container Traffic 1986 - 1991
1985/86     1986/87     1987/88     1988/89     1989/99     1999/91
Imports Total Units - TEUS        5,073       4,720       6,386       4,534       4,602        4,694
Imports Total Tonnage            74,531      69,191      94,701      66,368      67,364       68,711
Exports Total Units - TEUS          959       1,108         548         978         993        1,013
12,222      17,265       5,885      12,680      12,870      13,127
Empties In & Out - TEUS           4,621       5,912       5,780       4,342       4,407        4,495
Grand Total Units - TEUS          6,032       5,828       6,934       5,512       5,595        5,707
Grand Total Tonnage              86,753      86,456     100,586      79,048       80,234      81,839
Source: Division of Planning & Development, SLPA



Annex 2-3
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Lungi International Airpoil
Passenger Traffic 1970 - 1990
Year          Terminal          Transit           TOTAL
1970             42,900           30,482            73,391
1971             48,563           36,143             84,706
1972             53,020           34,377             87,397
1973             53,247           42,672            95,919
1974             59,692           40,149            99,841
1975             61,895           39,434            101,329
1976             64,664           42,482            107,146
1977             66,821           53,146            119,967
1978             77,676           50,477            128,153
1979             76,797           53,162            129,950
1980             88,040           47,889            135,929
1981             83,766           41,826            125,581
1982             93,484           33,607            116,091
1983             85,566           26,541            110,260
1984             79,120           23,481            102,601
1985             96,113           26,541            111,054
1986             82,650           31,261            113,911
1987             69,215           20,803            90,018
1988             71,803           27,001            98,804
1989             92,851           30,683            123,534
1990            103,455           25,381            128,836
Source: Sierra Leone Airport Authority



SEERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABETMATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECr
The Road Ndwork Cassiftion
(ix km)
CLASS I              CLASS II             CLASS III          CLASS IV & V              TOTAL           FEEDER ROADS
PAVED   GRAVEL   PAVED   GRAVEL   PAVED   GRAVEL   PAVED   GRAVEL   PAVED    GRAVEL
1. Westen Amu    102.40         3.2      51.2         19.2     16.0       65.6      75.2       67.2       244.8      155.2               -
2. Lnmgi           22.40         1.6      6.4          -         -         9.6        1.6       52.8       30.4       64.0             443.2
3. Pbrt Loko      104.0        104.0     19.2        177.6       -       393.6       14.4      153.6      137.6      825.6             57.6
4. Makeni         204.8        49.6       -         368.0        -       798.4       19.2      140.8      241.6     1340.8            1145.6
S. Knenma         110.4       329.6      27.2        273.6     11.2      732.8        9.6      280.0      206.4     1616.0            1329.6
6. Bo             118.4          -      120.0        392.0      8.0      484.8       19.2      160.0      265.6     1036.8             758.4
7. Mile 91        104.0        136.0     30.4        145.6      4.8      356.8        3.2      137.6      136.0      784.0                -             w
CAI
TOTAL             766.4       624.0    254.4        1376.0     40.0     2841.6      142.4      992.0     1262.4     5822.4            4254.4
GRAND TOTAL                   11339.2
Sctuoe:  DeDp rtbu  of Wodr, Sma  Le*one - April 1992



36
Annex3-
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABUITATION AND blAINTENANCE PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Road Network
Land Area     Road Length           Density
Adminirative Area       (sq. km.)        fbn)             (bnlsq. Az.)
Western Area                   577            400.0             0.69
Northern Province           35,936           5,726.4            0.16
Easten Province              15,553          3,152.0            0.20
Southemn Province            19,694          2,060.8            0.10
TOTAL                 71,740         11,339.2             0.16



37
Amex 3-3
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road           and Deuign Sandands
DESIGN STANDARD                        RIQ        CLASSIFICATION
I           aI           m            EY
Design Speed (mph)                   SO          40           40           25
Pavement Width (ft)                  22           20          NA          NA
Formation Width (ft)                 32          24           24           20
Minimum Horizontal Radius (ft)     1000         600          600          300
Max Grade %                           6            6            7          15
Bridge Width between Kerb (ft)       22          22           22           12
Pavement Surfacing is recommended as follows:
Gravel for ADT of under 150
Single surface treatment for ADT of 150 to 400
Double surface for ADT of above 400
British standards are used for the design of bridge structures



38                           _nnex 34
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABELTrATION AND MAUITENANCE PROJECIT
Depa4mnt of Works Development Budges, 1988 to 1992
(X1000 Leones)
FOREIGN           LOCAL             TOTAL
1987/88            141,212            22,550           163,712
1988/89            140,000            22,550           162,550
1989/90            318,000            28,350          346,350
1990/91          1,030,800            42,000         1,072,800
1991/92          2,834,000           144,500         2,978,500



S ERAtlONE
ROAD REHEAJIrrArTION AND MAENTEIANCE PROECTr
Dewbmet of Wo Ws Reaarnt Buid, I3 to 192
Road& Rdated Item
QC1OOO Leones)
"m23        1N3184      156418       1985186     198667      1987/8       1961*       19"mg       191         1991/92
6500    Admiuiat e                     NA         3,956       6,156       3,565       20,944      2S,373      35,835       40,012     239,135     649,760
6501    Arcbtecua1n                  3,760        4,211       4,241       7,307       40,662      15,956      21,106      32,373      100.992     239,691
6502    Higrwy Conifuiom Div.          147         212          313         364         737        1,073       1,262      34,785       25,475      63,9t4
6503    Higwbay Ma_laX Div.          3,199        S,999      10,020      12,361      42,996       43,m        57,331      4S9 43      107,3U      205,226
6504    Meedmaical                     NA         2,321       3,449       5,79t       16,824      10,341      16,322       19,335      31,677     173,110       '0
TOTAL                       12,106      20,199       24,1S4      35,395     122,163       99,525     132,35t     175,943     605,147   1,336,771
fM: Dquputnt of Woik., Sikm Laomm



40
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 7
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILTATION PROJECT
Sierra Leone Roads Authority
Key Organization Features and
Trnsion Plan for Transferdng Road Fundions from DOW to SLRA
General Background
1.    The Department of Works (DOW), formerly Ministry of Works (MOW) is currently
responsible for the development, maintenance and control of the road network of Sierra
Leone. This responsibility will be assumed by the Sierra Leone Roads Authority when it
commences full operations in January 1993.
2.    The inadequacies of the DOW in managing the country's road network were
highlighted during the implementations of the last two World Bank sponsored projects viz,
First Highway Project begun in 1972 and the Second Highway Project initiated in 1982.
Most of the past failures are attributable to two main problems:
(a)   lack of adequate and assured funding for road development, periodic and
routine maintenance; and
(b)    weak institutional framework provided by DOW for its road management
functions.
3.    In 1990, a UNDP financed and World Bank supervised Organization and Management
Study recommended that a new professional semi-autonomous Sierra Leone Roads Authority
(SLRA) should be established to help eliminate the constraints and inefficiencies which had
rendered the road branch of the DOW largely ineffective. This was accepted by both GOSL
and the World Bank.
4.    Consequently, GOSL engaged a consultant also financed by UNDP and supervised by
World Bank to provide required details to initiate the establishment of SLRA. Under the
consultant services, the organizational structure, staffing plan, job descriptions, resource
requirements and their management, etc. for SLRA were defined. Additionally, a draft
enabling law prepared by a legal consultant engaged under the services has been accepted by
the GOSL leading to the legislation of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act of 1992.
Responsibilities and Functions
5.    The SLRA will be responsible for the administrative control, planning development
and maintenance of all roads and related structures including ferries. To discharge this
responsibility, the Authority will among others be empowered to:
(a)    Define and classify the national road network and its subdivisions;



41
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 7
(b)    Carry out engineering traffic and economic studies necessary for the
maintenance and improvement of the network;
(c)   Implement appropriate and efficient technical operating procedures for road
development and maintenance activities;
(d)    Keep adequate financial records and operate management information system
on revenues and expenditures for works and services; and
(e)    Carry out such other activities as may be required in order to perform the
functions and duties under the Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act of 1992.
Organization and Staffing
6.    The Authority would maintain a minimum number of competent staff who can be
adequately compensated and provided with appropriate office space, transport and support
services.
7.    Statistics provided by DOW puts the total staff strength at about 12,500 in 1992; most
of which are in the Road Branch. Under the RIC agreement with IDA, Government is to
reduce DOW staff by 5,000 before December 1992. Of the remaining staff, many will be
asigned to SLRA, subject to screening by SLRA Board. It is planned that SLRA will have a
maximum of 1,400 established positions to carry out its functions, some of these will be filled
from outside DOW.
S.    The organizational structure of the Authority will feature a 10 member Board of
Directors as the governing body, a Director General and Deputy Director General and five
departments each headed by a Director.
9.    The departments and their core functions are as follows:
(a)    Equipment and Supplies Department: Responsible for all matters relating to
the acquisition and storage of road maintenance and quarry plant and
equipment as well as the procurement, storage and distribution of materials
and supplies for all units of the Authority.
(b)    Development Department: Responsible for the establishment of policies and
procedures to ensure the development of new roads and the upgrading of
existing roads.
(c)    Administration Department: Responsible for all matters relating to personnel,
finance and general administration of the Authority.
(d)    Maintenance Department: Responsible for all mattesm relating to the
maintenance of the road network.
(e)    Feeder Roads Department: Responsible for all matters relating to the
development, construction and maintenance of feeder roads in the country.



42
Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 7
10.   The organizational structure of SLRA and its departments are given in attachments 1
to 7.
11.   For the purpose of roads administration, the country shall be divided into six areas
conterminous with the national political/administrative provinces. Each area to be headed by
an Area Engineer will be subdivided into convenient geographical entities designated as Roads
Districts and headed by District Engineers.
a ImpHcatons
12.   As has been stated above, one of the major problems which rendered the DOW
incapable of satisfactorily performing its roads administration and management functions has
been the lack of adequate funding of its operations. To overcome this difficulty, the SLRA
establishment Act provides that the funds and resources of the Authority shall be from:
(a)    The Road Fund, a fund whose revenue would be dedicated to defray the cost
of road rehabilitation and maintenance and which would accrue from road user
fees or payments levied on road users and paid directly to SLRA;
(b)   Sums of money allocated to the authority for road development purposes;
(c)    Sums of money from time to time appropriated by parliament for use by the
Authority in respect of recurrent expenditure;
(d)   Sums of money accruing to the Authority in the course of its operations; and
(e)    All other monies and properties to which the authority may become entitled.
13.   The following table summarizes the various SLRA establishment expenditure items in
relation to the corresponding proposed sources of funding:
ITEM               ESTIMATED COST (Sm)    FUNDING SOURCE
1.    SLRA Establishment               1.50           UNDP, EC, and other
Office Accom., Office                           donor agencies
Equip. and Logistics
2.    Annual SLRA Running              2.40            GOSL recurrent budget
Cost
3.    Technical Assistance,            4.75            UNDP, EC, IDA
Manpower Development,
& Training
4.    Road Maintenance                 6.20            JICA, UNDP
Equip.



43
Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 7
Technical Operating Procedures
14.   A major reason for establishing the SLRA is to put in place more professional,
efficient and effective technical operating procedures to control, plan, develop and maintain
the national road network. To achieve this objective, the SLRA is to be provided with:
*     A Professional Road Maintenance Management System, and
*     An Effective Road Maintenance Organization.
Maintenance Management System
15.   Elements of the road maintenance management system designed for SLRA will
include:
*     A maintenance program designating specific goals and objectives in terms of
type of frequency of routine and periodic maintenance.
*     A budget and allocation of resources determined by need in terms of
manpower, equipment and materials to accomplish defined programs of work
for each unit consistent with funding capabilities.
*     Communication of program objectives and authorization for specific work in
ways that superintendents and foremen will be effectively guided in their day-
to-day scheduling and performance of work.
*     Reporting of work accomplished with periodic summarization and evaluation
of actual performance as related to program objectives and standards for
appropriate management action to be taken.
Road Maintenance Organization
16.   The proposed Road Maintenance Organization has been designed to provide the SLRA
the ability to maintain its road infrastructure adequately and more cost effectively. It will
comprise of three management levels:
(a)    Top management group which includes people who are directly responsible to
the public and made up of the Board of Directors, Director General and the
Deputy Director General. They will be responsible for:
*     clearly defining objectives and long range plans,
*     establishing a sound plan and organization,
*     allocating resources in connection with objectives, and
*     establishing effective means of control.
(b)    The middle management is viewed as reaching down to the District Engineer
and Superintendent and will be responsible for:
*     refining broad objectives into specific measurable results,



44
Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 7
*     detemining the best way of performing work,
*     ensuring that operating personnel klow what is needed, and
*     effectively controlling work performance to achieve results.
(c)    Operating level management is that pat which will actually do the work.
Their efforts will be dirocted towards the specific objectives of the Authority.
They will be responsible for:
*     consistenty using established work methods,
*     doing the amount of work defined for them,
*     providing effective direction to individual employees, and
*     exercising dayto-day control over work performance.
FWeld Level Orpnixadon
17.   The Area Engineer in each of the six areas makes decisions concerning maintenance
operations in his rea. The maintenc activities in the areas are directed by the
Maintenance Engineer while a Mechanical Superintendent has charge of minor mechanical
repairs of maiten   equipment.
Executon of Road Maintenance
18.   One of the principal recommendations of the Organization and Management Study was
that SLRA would carry out most of Its maintenance works by contract. However, the
trasition from total use of force account for all mainte     works to completely utilize
contractors will take time. It is proposed that the following arrangements will hold at the end
of the four year project period.
ACIVlTY                  FORCE ACCOUNT         CONTRACT %
Perod Maintnance and Mlnor Worws:
(a) Resling                                         30                   70
(b) Regravelling                                    30                   70
(c) Improvement to Bituminous Roads                 30                   70
(d) Bridges and Culvert Repairs                    100
Routine Maintenanoe:
(a) Labor Baed                                      10                   90
(b) Machine Bad                                     50                   50
(c) Pothole Patching                                80                   20



45
Annex 34
Page 6 of 7
19.   With regard to labor based routine maitnance  tviies such u grassAbsh cleaning,
ditch cleaning by hand, cleaning of culverts and re-cavatdon of ditche by hand, the
authority will use the services of retrenched staff of DOW a sons man contractors" (OMC)
to carry out such works. The objectives is to replace the Ineffective oervry capabilities
inherent in parastatal organizations with the self-motivating instincts aNd poesol initiatve of
individuals working for themselves.
20.   It is expected that about 2,500 out of approximately 5,000 workers to be retrenched
would be engaged as OMC's.
Equipmet and Vehlde Manament
21.   In view of the many problems associated with direct labor repairs and management of
road maintenance equipment, the Authority will:
*      ckeep a minimal equipment holding for use by the Mobile Maintenan  Units
and the Area Routine Maintenance Gangs; and
o     ensure that all major repairs and rehabilitation of plant, eqipmenwt and
vehicles would be farmed out on contrut to one or more of the established
workshops in the country to be selected Ihrough competitive bidding.
Pnouement of Goods and Service
22. For purposes of procurement of goods and services, the SIRA will have four levels
of authority as follows:
(a)    Head Office Tender Board
(b)    Director General
(c)    Area Tender Board
(d)    Area Engineers
Head Offlce Tender Board
23.   The Head Office Tender Board wil be composed of the members of the Board of
Directors under the chairmanship of the Board Chairman. The Secrtary shal be the Chief
Engineer Contracts and shall deliberate on the following tenders:
(a)   all major civil works with foreip donor participation
(b)   all purchase of imported goods
(c)    purchases of goods exceeding Le 10 million
(d)    procurement of engineering and other consulting services
(e)   road maitenance contracts exceeding Le 50 million.
24.   The approving Authority for tenders considered by the Head Office Tender Board
dhl be the Minister of Works.



46
Annaex 34
Page 7 of 7
Diredor General
25.   The Director General will be the approving authority for all local purchads of goods
not exceeding Le 10 million orignating from Department Heads.
Area Tender Board
26.   The Area Tender Board will consider all maintenance contracts (excluding OMC's)
not exceeding Le 50 million, and will be composed as follows:
(a)    Provincial Secretary                           -   Chairman
(b)    Provincial Development Planning/Finance Officer    -   Member
(c)    District Officer of Relevant District          -   Member
(d)    Provincial Police Commander                    -   Member
(e)    SLRA Area Engineer                             -   Member/Secretary
Area Engineers
27.   The Area Engineer shall be the approving authority for all local purchases of goods
not exceeding Le 2 million in his area.
Organizational Charts
28.   The organizational charts are given in attachments 1 to 6.
29.   The technical assistance to strengthen SLRA is described in Annexes 4-5 and 4-6.
Transition Plan
30.   The transition plan to make SLRA fully operational is described in pars 3.11 of the
SAR, and also given in attachment 7.



47
Annex 3-6
Attachment 1
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
&LRA.
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
FINTERNAL AUDIT DIVISION
DEPUJTY DIRECTOR
GENERAL
EQUIP. & UPPLIESI   D6EVELOPMENT   ADMINISTRATION    MAINTENANCE    FEEDERI ROADS
DEPT.             DEPT.            DEPT.            DEPT.           DEPT
AREA ENGINEERS
OFFICES



48
Annex 3-6
Attachmaet 2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SLRA
ORGAAIZZTIONSTRUCTURE OF
EOUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES DEPARTMENT
EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES
DEPARTMENT
PLANT & EQUIP.                               STORES & SUPPI
DIVISION    lIlSl
REC/MONITOR                                    PROCUREMENT
TRAINING 1
&                                             STORAGE
DEVELOPMENT
WORKSHOPS|ll
WORKSHOPS I                                    AREA STORES
QUARRIES]



49
Annexc 3-6
Attachment 3
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SLRA
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF DEVELOPMENTDEPARTMEv
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
SECRETARIAT
PLANNING        SURVEY & DESIGN      CONTRACTS           MATERIALS
DIVISION          DIVISION            DIVISION
FERRIES DIVISION



50                         Amex 3-6
Attachment 4
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
S&LRA.
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF ADAINISTRATIONDEPARTM
I ADMINSTRATIlON DEPARTMENT|
|PERSONNEL            ACCOUNTS        +     {      TANING l
EMPLOYMENT/            GRENAUAL
DIgSCHARGE   l  -       PE -UDT                   TRAINING    l
PEKRSONNEL POLICY|   L______BUDGET &                 WTR HILL|
| CONTROL   l                ENTER     l
RECORSEDRECORDS &                                  IES
PROTOCOL/PUBLICL ADCENTE
STATISTICS                                        TRINING
STAFFWELARE |   ASPECIAL DUTTIES |q         SRIEUI 
APPRAISAL/ | L HEAD OFFICE|
I DISCIPUNE         | REGION       l
ACOST ACCOUNTS|
L  REGIONAL |
|- ACCOUNTS|
IPUBUC RELATIONNRLSRVCSLGL
L DIVISION           l    DIVISION             L SECURITY l
MANAGEMN                 ASSETS &                   LEA
COUNSEL          _     PROPERTIES
| RECORDS &   lINVESTIGATION/
PUBLICATIONS        ARCHIVES                  SECURITY
COMPUTER SUPPORT
PROTOCOL/PUBLIC    _       CENTER
AFFAIRS



51
Annex 3-6
Attacluent 5
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
&LRA.
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF MA NTENNCEDEPAR
MAINTENANCE
DEPARTMENT
ROAD MAINTEANANCE
DIVISION
SOUTHERN SECTOR       NORTHERN SECTORMOBILE MTCE
L~~ESEcTOR            ~~~UNITS



52
Am=s 3-6
Attachment 6
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILrTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SLRA
ORGANIZA TON STRUC7URE OF FEEDER ROADS DEPARTM
EDEVELOPMENT                    MANTNAC



53               Annx 3-6
Attachment 7
0~7-               -11 1 1 
p  iX    X
:~~~~~0 111111X
3& Xi 4 2
M 21            
! C  8 e 8ts    .7
U    t_1   



54
Annex 3-7
Page I of 2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABIIUTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance Cost Recovery
1.    The total road network in Sierra Leone consists of 1,260 km of paved, 5,820 km of
gravel and 4,250 km of feeder (mostly earth) roads. Assuming the entire network hi
functional, stable and in maintainable condition, the desirable annual periodic and recurrent
maintenance costs amount to respectively US$14.5 million and US$5.5 million (for a total of
about US$20 million) as shown in Table 1.
2.    Tax receipts from fuel in 1991/92 amounted to Le 9,127 million (or US$18.2 million)
and for 1992/93 are projected to be Le 14,000 million (or US$28.0 million). The average tax
level in Sierra Leone ranges from about 7% to 10% on goods and services, whereas on fuel
the tax rate is about 100%. In addition, about 10% to 13% of the fuel tax revenue may be
assumed from non-road users, in which case the net road user charges from the fuel tax
amount to about 80% of the revenue, or about US$22.4 million projected for 1992/93.
Hence, even without considering the additional road related revenue from vehicle registration
and licensing fees, driver's license, etc., the revenue from fuel tax covers more than the
recurrent and periodic road maintenance costs.
3.    The flow of funds, however, to the roads sector have been much less than the
required amount to keep the network in stable and good condition. As a result, nearly 60%
of the roads are in poor and non-maintainable condition, requiring much larger outlays of
capital to clear the backlog of rehabilitation and reconstruction works. This is being achieved
with the assistance of external financing agencies. It is assumed that about eight to ten years
will be required before the whole network is raised to good condition and adequate
institutional capacity has been built to suswtain the periodic and recurrent maintenance of the
network. On that basis, the flow of funds from general revenues to the SLRA through budget
allocations and the Road Fund may be progressively increased from about USSS.0 million
equivalent in 1993 to the full amount of US$20 million equivalent in the year 2005 (in
constant 1992 prices). In order to ensure automatic flow of funds from road user charges,
a substantial amount of this should be channelled through the Road Fund.



55
Annex M3Z
Page 2 of 2
Tabe 1: Annul Recurent and Periodic Road Maintenance Cost,
Periodic       Recurrent
Item              Mantenance (a)   Maintenance     TOTAL
Anua Length (km)
Paved                             95           1,165          1,260
Gravel                           582           5,238          5,820
Feeder                           425           3,825          4,250
Unit Cost/km (JSS)
Paved                          24,500          1,000
Gravel                         15,000           600
Feeder                          8,000           300
Annual Maintenance Cost (Sm)
Paved                            2.33           1.17           3.50
Gravel                           8.73           3.14          11.87
Feeder                           3.40           1.15           4.55
TOTAL                           14.46           5.46          19.92
(a)    Periodic maintenance comprises of resealing 18th of the paved roads, and
regravelling 1/6th of the gravel and feeder roads each year.



SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABII TATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sen Year Red RehabUitaton and Mainenanc hrgim (phae 1: 1993-96, phe 2.- 199-q
E    _tiWI Cost (SM)
LA&      ADT      Surf.        Propotd                            ERR   F_in
No.            Road Section           (kim)    (1987)   Cond.         Works          Phae I   Phan 2   (%)    Agency (
1.     RECONSTRUCTION:
1. Watroo-Masiak                 43.2  1,000      VP    A/C on C/Rock Base       20.60           17     EC
2. Waterloo-Kent                 25.6   620        VP    Reoons. W/DBST           16.10           17     Kuwait Fund
3. Makeni-Fadupu                 80.0   120        F      Repair/Reseal            2.55            -    EC
4. Robere-Pamelap                90.0   250        VP    Recon. W/DBST            27.00           21     EC
5. Masiaka-LAnSar                47.9   500         G     Repair/Overlay           4.80            -    EC
6. Kenema-Koindu                133.0   295        VP    Recons./W/DBST                    45.0    -    EC
7. Moa Bridge & Approaches        0.2     -         -    4-Span, RCC                       6.2   18    Ildamic Bank
8. Kent-Goderich                 45.0   430        VP    Reoons. W/DBST                    25.0  19      WBD
9. Lungi Airpoit Road            67.0     -         -     New Road/DBST                    35.0          TBD
Sub-Total            531.9                                             71.05   111.2
H.    REHAB. OF PAVED ROADS:
1. Talama-Bo                     51.6   400       VP    Rehmb/DBST                7.53           18    IDA
2. Bo-Kenema                     69.0   540        P      Rehb/DBST                9.38           27    IDA
3. Luna-Makeni                   62.1   400        VP    Rebab/DBST                6.05          26      EC
4. Makeni-Matotoka               36.4   370        VP    Rehab/DBST                3.55          24      AfDB
5. Maotka-Yengema               112.3   370        VP    Rehab/DBST               10.95           25     AfDB
6. Yengema-Sefdu                  6.7 2,500         P     Rehab/DBST               1.00           80     AfIDB
7. Welio-Waterloo               19.0  1,180       P      Rehab/DBST               2.77
S. Freetown-Weliogbon (4L)        9.2 9,000        F      A/C Overlay                      2.61
9. Bo-Bam ma                     46.0   215        F      Resed W/DBST                     6.72
10. LgI-Tagrin                   15.0   320       F/P    Rehab/Reseal                      2.20
Sub-Total            427.3                                             41.23    11.53
Oe
0 t
o tU



Estimate Cost ($M)
Length    ADT     Surf.        Proposed                            ERR       Fundin
No.            Road Section            (kmn)   (1987    Cond.          Works          Phase I   Phase 2   (S)    Agec ")
IM.    REHAB. OF GRAVEL ROADS:
1. Mile 91-Robol ict.            52.0       106    VP    Regraveltiog               1.82           53
2. PenIap-Semdegu Jct.           32.0        62    VP    Regrveiling                0.48           24     EC
3. Sendepu Jct-Kunakwic          S2.0        60    VP    Regrxvelling               0.78           23     BC
4. Mmwa Jct.-Sefadu              73.7       680    VP    Rehabilitation                      2.95
5. Koribundu-Sumnbuya            35.0       110    VP    Rehabilitation                      1.40
6. Sefadu-Jagbwema               16.3        80    VP    Rehabilitation                      0.67
7. Yonibana-Bauya-Mil. 91        70.0       100    VP    Rehabiltkation                      2.80
8. Magburaka Bumbu               49.3        59    VP    Rehabilitation                      1.97
9. LuseI Airport4Konakridee       8.1       100    VP    Rehabiliation                      0.32
Sub-Total             388.9                                              3.08    10.11
TV.    REHAB. OF CITY ROADS:            90.0   (Ph.l1: 20, Ph.2: 70)                       7.12    27.65  98     AfD)B/IDA
V.    REHAB. OF FEEDER ROADS:    1,800.0  (Ph.l1: S00, Ph.2: 1000)                        20.0    25.00          IDA (ASSP)
Grand Total           3,238.1                                           142.48   185.49
(1)      ~~Codsa are roug estiates (1992 prices), excluding supervision and contingencies.
(il)     Indicte bonding agency is tentaiv and subject to change by the agencie.
(iii) ~  The City of Freetown only.
(IV)         The Project consists of Phase I (1993-96) involving activites under itenis H, III and IV. Part of Phase I of item V is being
undraUken separately under IDA financed Agricultura Support Services Project
Deparneut of Works/Bank Mission
Sqembe.er 1992
Os
'-'Ii



58
Anex 4-2
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Trunk Road Rehabilitation under the Project
1.    The following is a list of roads to be rehabilitated under the Project, with a
description of&each road:
Paved                     Length (kin)
Taiama - Bo                                       51.6
Bo - Blama - Kenema                               69.0
Makeni - Matotoka - Yengema - Sefadu             155.4
Lunsar - Makeni                                   62.1
Wellington - Waterloo                             1.0
Subtotal (Paved)                          37
Gravel
Robol Junction - Mile 91                          52.0
Panlap - Sendegu Junction - Kamakwie
Subtotal (Gravel)
Freetown CBD/City Streets                         20.0
GRAND TOTAL
Talama - Bo Road
2.    The Taiama - Bo road links Freetown to Bo, the headquarters of the Southern
Province. This road section is part of the main east-west highway to Kenema. The road was
completed and opened to traffic in 1974. It is paved with a soil-cement stabilized base course
with a double bituminous surface treatment as a wearing course.
3.    The road was built to Class I standard and both the horizontal and vertical alignments
are within the design standards for that class of road. It has almost exceeded its design life
and throughout there has been no effective periodic maintenance and very little routine
maintenance. The existing pavement has completely failed and the treatment being proposed
is a double bituminous surface wearing course on new crusher run base course varying in
thickness from 150-250 mm., depending upon the subgrade strength and the existing base
strength.



59
Annex 42
Page 2 of 3
4.    The estimated ADT on the road is 400 vpd. Its priority is very high since it serves
the rich agricultural areas in the Southern Province and provides links to some major
educational, agricultural and health institutions. The area of influence covers major diamond
mining and rice producing areas. The upgrading of this road is therefore essential to overall
economic performance of the country, and for the marketing and distribution of produce and
foodstuffs within the corridor between the Eastern Region and the rest of the country
including Freetown.
Bo - Keneina Road
5.    The Bo - Kenema road commences at Bo in the Southern Province and runs eastwards
for about 69 km to the town of Kenema in the Kenema District, the Eastern Province of
Sierra Leone. The road was constructed in 1973 to a Class I design standard-base course and
a double bituminous surface treatment as a wearing surface.
6.    From visual assessment the general condition of this road is good although the
required maintenance has not been provided and the road is almost at the end of its design life
having been opened to vehicular traffic for almost two decades. The treatment being
proposed is base course replacement and a double bituminous surfacing as in the case of
Taiama - Bo Road.
7.    The road covers an area of influence of about 240 square miles. It serves two
important provincial headquarter towns with substantial agricultural and mining activities
which contribute significantly to the export earnings of the country. The estimated ADT is
540 vpd on Bo - Blamar and 800 vpd on Blama - Kenema sections of the road.
Makeni - Sefadu Road
8.    The Makeni - Sefadu road commences at Makeni and runs eastwards for about
155 km to Sefadu. The road links Makeni, the headquarters of the Northern Province to the
Kono District Headquarters of Sefadu in the Eastern Province. The corridor extends over
three districts, namely, Bombali, Tonkolili and Kono.
9.    The entire road has never received any periodic maintenance and the section between
Matotoka and Njaima - Sewafe has failed completely. This section has to be regraded. The
proposed treatment is complete rehabilitation of the base course using crusher-run gravel and
double bituminous surface treatment as a wearing course.
10.   The Makeni - Sefadu road is a vital link of the main road linking Freetown in the
western area and Yengema and Sefadu in the Eastern Province. Yengema is the headquarters
of the National Diamond Mining Company. The area of influence covers sizable agricultural
and mining areas where gold, diamond, swamp rice and secondary forests rich in timber are
found. These contribute substantially to the export earnings of Sierra Leone.
11.   The proposed treatment is scarification of existing surface, reshaping and
rehabilitation of the base, including additional crusher run of up to 150 mm where needed,
followed by a double bituminous surface treatment.



60
Annsex 4-2
Page 3 of 3
LuuA-r - Malkni Road
12. The Lusar - Makeni Road was built to Clas I design standard and runs eastward for
62 kom to the Northern Provincial headquarters town of Makeni. The road links two of the
five districts in the Northern Province, Port Loko and Bombali districts.
13.   The road is paved with double bituminous surface treatment as wearing course with
crusher run base course on selected laterite sub-base. The existing road pavement varies from
poor to very poor with some significant surface deformation. It has an estimated ADT of
430 vpd and has not been repaved since it was opened to traffic in the mid seventies. The
proposed treatment is replacement of the base course plus a double bituminous surface
treatment.
14.   The road has an area of influence of about 80 square miles. It traverses rich
agricultural swamp lands where rice, cassava, citrus fruits, tobacco, potatoes and other cash
crops are cultivated. Further north of Makeni is a rich cattle area.
WdUngton - Waterloo
15.   This is a 19 km bituminous surface treated road in poor condition providing the
connection from Freetown to Waterloo. It has an ADT of 1,180 vpd and the proposed
teatment is replacement of the base course plus a double surface treatment.
Robol Junction - Mile 91 Road
16.   This gravel road commences at Robol Junction and meanders south and westwards for
52 km to Mile 91 on the Freetown - Bo road. The road follows a low standard alignment.
As a result of continuous use by heavy traffic, the road has deteriorated significantly and
requires reshaping and regravelling to a Class IV standard. The estimated ADT is 190 vpd.
17.   The road traverse areas of the rich Boli swamp lands with potential for agricultural
produce, including swamp rice, cassava, sugarcane and potatoes. There is a cassava and
sugar processing factory within the corridor.
Panlap - Kamakwie Road
18.   This gravel road commences at Panlap junction on the Makeni - Kabala road and runs
northwards for a total of 84 km to Kamakwie. Both horizontal and vertical alignments need
to be improved. Due to its low lying condition, an effective drainage system can be provided
by the naural topography if the present gravel surface is elevated above grade in some areas.
19.   The estimated ADT is 60 vpd mainly due to its extremely poor condition. The Panlap
- Kamakwie road passes through rich agricultural areas with farms of tobacco and rice fields
and other cash crops. There is also potential for citru farm development, as there is also a
fruit cannery along this route. Further north is a rich cattle breeding area. The road requires
regravelling and minor rehabilitation.
Sur:g: Department of Works/AF4IN, September 1992



61
Annex 43
Page 1 of I
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Freeowx CBD Stred    h
1.    Freetown city roads and other infrastructure facilities are in a dilapidated condition
due to inadequate maintenance over many years, resulting in poor traffic flows and high
traffic congestion on the city roads, and unhygienic conditions and flooding during rains due
to cluttered drains. Weak institutional capacity of the Freetown Municipal Council, which
lcks financial and staff resources to maintain the system, has compounded the problem. In
recent years, due to the inadequate capacity of the Municipality, DOW wu given the
responsibility to maintain and rehabilitate the system, but that agency also lacked adequate
funding for the purpose. Efforts to improve the streets through partial rehabilitation and a
massive clean-up operation hu been started recently (from January 1992, but more intensely
from July 1992) and is beginning to show slight improvements. However, a substantial
rehabilitation program involving major pavement reconstruction and sidewalk and drainage
repairs is yet to begin; this is expected to start under the proposed project (RRMP), which
will cover about 20 Ikm of the most important roads in the Central Business District, and is
expected to be followed by rehabilitation of 80 Ikm of remaining main city streets through a
Freetown water and infrastructure rehabilitation project which IDA is currently preparing with
GOSL and other cofinanciers. Detailed engineering for both these phases of city roads
improvement is being done under a Japanese Grant and PPF Advance from IDA.
2.    The CBD roads rehabilitation under RRMP will be implemented by SLRA, as part of
the overall road rehabilitation program under the project, with the help of engineering
consultants for supervision, a project coordinator, and in addition a Chief Municipal Engineer
Consultant (CME) funded under the project; the CME will administratively ,work under SLRA
(which will contract his services), but will be located in the City Council and will functionally
be responsible to the City Council, and will coordinate the CBD component on behalf of the
City Council; the CME will also help build up a road maintenance unit in the City Council
which will take over full responsibility for city roads maintenance. The RRMP will also
provide some essential office equipment and other logistical support to the Road Mainteance
Unit which will be procured by SLRA in consultation with the City Council.
3.    Attachment 1 gives a list of the CBD roads proposed to be funded under RRMP, and
attchment 2 gives TOR for the Chief Municipal Engineer.



62                        Annex  3
Attachment 1
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
List of Freetown CBD Streets to be Rehabilitated
Stret Name                       Length/(m)       Wtth/(m)
Percival St.                               450             12.93
Pultney St.                                260             13.54
Walpole St.                                270             10.74
Lamina Sankoh St.                          250              9.83
George St.                                 250              9.05
Gloucester St.                             560             10.44
Charlotte St.                              350             13.24
Howe St.                                   530             12.78
Rawdon St.                                 500             13.31
Wilberforce St.                            350             12.41
East St.                                   350             14.52
Malama Thomas St.                          460              5.82
Kissy St.                                  550              7.26
Lumley St.                                 320              6.66
Back St.                                    50              8.93
Short St.                                   55             12.10
Free St.                                   175             10.74
State Ave.                                 155             10.89
O.A.U. Drive                               300             19.51
Rokel St.                                  170              7.49
Goderich St.                               600              8.70
Wallace-Johnson St.                        680              9.53
Lightfoot Boston St.                       980             11.20
Siaka Stevens St:                         1,170            10.59
Garrison St.                               390             13.09
Regent Rd.                                 240              7.49
Upper East St.                             200              6.35
Pademba Rd.                              2,000              7.56
Liverpool St.                              380              9.08
Bathurst St.                               460             11.72
Wellington St.                             530              9.08
Waterloo St.                               455              8.93
Upper Waterloo St.                         270
Upper Brook St.                            440
Sackville St.                              120
Undefined                                4,730
TOTAL                           20.0(km)
Sos: City of Freotown. September 1992.



63
Annex 43
Attachment 2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Chief Munidpal Engineer
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The Chief Municipal Engineer (CME) shall work in the office of the City Engineer in
the Freetown City Council, in close coordination with the City Council. He will, on behalf of
the City Council, coordinate the CBD roads component under RRMP with SLRA, and report
progress in the component and related problems to the City Council. His duties shall include
a close examination of the City Engineer's Department as it exists and make recommendations
to establish a functional department, based on the workload it should undertake and the
staffing requirements necessary to accomplish these tasks. Administratively, the CME will be
contracted and supervised by SLRA, but will carry out all functions in close cooperation with
the City Council, and will functionally be responsible to the City Council.
Scope of Work
2.    The CME shall examine and make recommendations on institutional strengthening of
the City Engineer's Department taking into account the requirements of:
(a)   vehicles, plants and equipment;
(b)    office furniture and equipment;
(c)   technical support for the office for items such as drafting machines, theodilites
and levels;
(d)   workshop equipment and light tools;
(e)   capacity building in City Council for planning, programming and
implementing maintenance of city roads and drainage; and
(f)   training counterpart staff to carry out above functions.
Duties and Responsibilities
3.    The CME shall be responsible for formulating short, medium, and long term
development and maintenance plan for the Freetown City Council, and for assisting the City
Council and SLRA in coordinating design and supervision of the CBD road component under
RRMP, particularly in projecting the City Council's views and interests in the process and in
reporting to the City Council on related problems and progress.



64
Annex 4-3
Attachment 2
4.    'he duties of the CME shall include but not be limited to:
(a)    reviewing and evaluating existing inventories, records and other data, and
carrying out additional surveys and investigations for preparing updated
inventories for the road network;
(b)    identifying for each road section the type and amount of work required for
adequate maintenance and translating such works into specific tasks in terms
of routine/periodic maintenance;
(c)    installing a system of cost accounting procedures to facilitate determining the
cost of individual road maintenance operations and the total cost of
maintaining individual road sections, relating costs to physical environments
and traffic;
(d)    conducting regular traffic counts to reflect traffic volumes and vehicle
classification;
(e)    conduct regular inspection of all council properties and facilities such as:
* office buildings
* markets/market places
* parks
* street lighting
* cemeteries, and
* public toilets, etc.
also drawing up a schedule complete with cost estimates for the repairs and
maintenance of these facilities;
(f)    formulate a staged plan of action for the collection and disposal of solid
wastes throughout the city when this responsibility is eventually transferred
back to the City Council;
(g)    establish performance standards and procedures for routine and periodic
maintenance involving an appropriate mix of labor and equipment;
(h)    coordinate the work of the technical assistance team and of personnel
employed in road maintenance, planning, and operations;
(i)    coordinate design and supervision of the CBD road components under RRMP;
and
(j)    assist the City Council in preparing for Phase II of CBD roads rehabilitation
proposed under follow-up projects.
5.    In order to be able to accomplish the above tasks, the City Engineer shall initily:



Atachmet 2
(a)   identify the manpower needs and organizational structre required, completo
with organizational chart; and
(b)   identify the logistical support necessary to carry out the tasks, broken down
into:
(i)    vehicle, plants and equipment;
(ii)   office furniture and equipment;
(iii)  drawing office and survey equipment;
(iv) establish a workshop with stores to facilitate the repairs and
maintenance of vehicles, plants and other facilities;
(v)    map out a training program for the Technical and Administrative
Personnel in the City Engineer's Department; and
(vi)  liaise with the SLRA to harmonize technical standards and
specifications.
Quatl)cation Requirenent
6.    The candidate for the post of City Engineer should have the following qualifications:
(a)    a B.Sc. Degree in Civil Engineering;
(b)    minimum of 15 years post qualification working experience, of which 10
years should be in operational and administrative aspects of road construction
including at least 5 years experience in urban infrastructure, in a government
highway/road organization or city administration, including establishment of
efficiency incentives, unit costing and similar management systems and
controls;
(c)   should have suitable experience not only in usage and control of equipment,
but also labor based methods, with a good appreciation of where the use of
the latter is technically and economically appropriate;
(d)   should have previous experience in organizing and conducting training
programs for the staff;
(e)   fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas
easily; and
(f)   should also be familiar with the procurement of goods and servics in
accordance with guidelines specified by the World Bank and other donor
agencies.



66
Annex 44
Page 1 of 4
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Trining of Domestic Contractors
Background
1.    Presently, rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network in Sierra Leone is being
carried out by the Department of Works (DOW), formerly the Ministry of Works, using force
account and direct labor capital intensive methods. Over the years, due to lack of adequate
funding and other anomalies, there has been practically no regular routine or periodic
maintenance of the road network. Severe shortage of foreign exchange to purchase vital spare
parts required to maintain the capital equipment has virtually grounded road maintenance
activities of the DOW. Due to this, nearly 40% of the paved roads, 60% of the gravel roads
and 80% of the earth roads are currently rated to be in poor to very poor condition and near
collapse. As a result the country's economy is incurring additional costs in vehicle operating
costs.
2.    Over the years, the UNDPIILO have developed labor-intensive programs involving
technologies that are relatively small, simple and capital saving. Such techniques have proved
themselves more appropriate to the needs of the majority of the poor people in rural areas of
Africa, Indian Subcontinent and Latin America. ILO has successfully carried out these
programs in many countries of the world, including Sierra Leone. Positive results of the past
and of the on-going rural works programs in Sierra Leone have demonstrated that labor-
intensive methods are feasible in developing infrastructure, including rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads. GOSL has, therefore, made a strong commitment to use labor-based
methods where possible for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network in the
country. Also, GOSL has decided to utilize private sector contractors to implement these
activities. In future GOSL will use a combination of labor-intensive and capital-intensive
methods and utilize private sector construction industry to carry out the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the road network in the country.
Training of Contractors
3.    To successfully implement the concept, GOSL/UNDP/ILO has commenced a small
contractor training program and in the first phase, a total of 20 such contractors followed a
ten-week comprehensive training program. These contractors completed the course on July
23, 1992, and are now ready to take on small contracts for road rehabilitation and
maintenance, initially for the on-the-job training under close supervision. More contractors
will be trained under the program, who, after initial training, will be given maintenance
works to execute on contracts for further on-the-job training, and later for own management.
The program expects to train about 100 contractors, mainly to work on periodic maintenance
of gravel roads. Most of these works will be funded from Government funds.



67
Annex4
Page 2 of 4
Strategy
4.    The strategy is to award contracts for the rehabilitation and the maintenance of the
newly constructed roads in the country to the trained contractors and to continue on-the-job
training in the initial phase by ILO-sponsored experts, who will train and supervise the
contractors. This will be carried out in three stages:
(a)    Stage 1. Time limit - 2 construction seasons. It is planned that 5 km sections
of road works will be awarded based on agreed unit prices. Road
construction tools and other forms of assistance will be provided. On-the-job
training would be given to further strengthen the capacities of the contractors.
Costs of all inputs will be recovered in stages from the payments due for work
completed.
(b)    Stage 2. Time limit - 5 construction seasons. Contractors will own road
construction hand tools and will have a capacity to tender for small to medium
size road rehabilitation contracts on a competitive bidding basis. Contractors
will lease basic equipment for road construction. Contractors will be
competent to accept road maintenance contracts to carry out routing and
periodic maintenance.
(c)    Stage 3. It is expected that contractors would own all hand tools and basic
road construction equipment necessary to undertake road rehabDlitation and
maintenance contracts.
Rates for the various activities in road rehabilitation and maintenance, guidelines and
procedures for the award of contracts, certification and payments will be produced by March
1993, by the local consultant engaged in preparing this component of the project.
Requiremnent of Tools
5.    Contractors will use labor-intensive methods to rehabilitate and maintain the selected
roads and each contractor will be loaned the following road construction hand tools:
-   wheel barrows                                5 no.
-   shovels                                     20no.
-   pic axes                                    20 no.
-   head pans                                   16 no.
-   rakes                                       16 no.
-   cutlasses                                   15 no.
-   mattocks                                    10 no.
-   camber boards                                2 no.
-   tapes 30 meters                              1 no.
-   tapes 1 meter                                2 no.
-   spirit levels                                2 no.
-   lines rolls                                 10 no.
-   watering cans                                4 no.
-   water containers                             4 no.



68
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
6.    The above list is worked out on the basis that each contractor will employ a minimum
of 50 laborers. Based on this, each contractor will be able to complete a road section of 15
km per season. Depending on the terrain, a contractor will complete:
-   bush clearing
-   grubbing
-   drainage works: side drains, turnouts and culverts
-   earthworks, including cambering
-   wearing course if suitable material is available. Where suitable
material is not available, wearing course will be hauled in by truck.
Assistance will be given contractors to haul material required for
wearing course. All imported material will be spread to the required
thickness by the contractors. During stage 1, compaction and final
grading will be carried out by contractors who will lease compaction
and grading equipment in stage 2.
Equipment Leasing Services
7.    The newly trained contractors lack capital to purchase basic equipment required for
road rehabilitation and maintenance work. Initially, these contractors will need assistance. It
is proposed that an Equipment Leasing Unit be created under SLRA, from which contractors
can lease the required basic equipment necessary to carry out the rehabilitation and
maintenance activities. The Equipment Leasing Unit will belong to the Sierra Leone Roads
Authority; the leasing terms and arrangements will be initially prepared by ILO experts and
SLRA, and agreed with IDA before start of the program. The following plant and equipment
should be available for leasing by the contractors:
-     tractors 40-50 hp                           6 no.
-     tipping trailers                            6 no.
-     water bowsers (4000 lit. cap.)              4 no.
-     compactors twin drum vibratory              4 no.
-     compactors single drum                      4 no.
-     concrete mixers                             4 no.
-     towed graders                               4 no.
-     maintenance graders                         2 no.
-     transport vehicles (4x4 pickups)            4 no.
-     low-loaders medium size                     1 no.
-     air compressors                             2 no.
-     pneumatic tools: jack hammers, etc.         4 no.
-     workshop tools                             4 sets.
-     mechanical chain saws                       4 no.
-     front-end loaders                           2 no.
-     welding sets                                2 no.
-     small generators                            2 no.



69
Page 4 of 4
Inplenentation Arrangements
S.    This component will be executed by ILO In close coordination with SLRA.
Essentially, the training of contracors will be carried out as part of the regular road
maintenance program to be implemented by contractors. The work will be funded by GOSL
through counterpart funding provided by the United States PL480, RIC and other govermment
funds. The UNDP has already started the initial phase of trainlg contractors through funds
for maintenance works given to the UNDP to manage under a special agreement between
GOSL and the UNDP. This agreement will continue 2 years after which SLRA will manage
these funds.
9.    The UNDP has agreed to finance training and supervision of this component which is
expected to last for 4 years. The maintnnce works which will be used for the on-the-job
training and for subsequent direct management will be financed from Government's funds,
with a small amount funded by MDA under LCB procedures. Some of the equipmet ad
tools needed would also be funded by IDA and pardy by AfDB. Cost estimates for these
maintenance contracts and contractor training program, and proposed coflnancing plan, are
given in Anna 4-11 under item 3.
:er~: ILO/AF4IN, September 1992



70
Annex 4-S
Page 1 of 10
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technicl Assistance for Sirra Leone Roads Autho'ty (SLRA)
A. Iltroductin
1.    The Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA), which is in the process of being
established, will be responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and maitenance of the
country's road system including trnk and feeder roads. A total of 258 man-months of
technical assistance support will be needed to start up SLRA and for first three years of its
operation in order to train staff and build capacity for future operation.
2.    The Government has taken substantial steps to strengthen road maintenance in Sierra
Leone, the most important of which was to establish the SLRA and ensure that it is provided
with adequate funding to carry out its mandate.
B. Oblectives
3.    The objectives of the technical assistance are to:
(a)    assist in the establishment, organization and operation of the SLRA;
(b)    build capacity through training of local staff and counterparts;
(c)    clearly define objectives and long range plans for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the road system, with emphasis on carrying out a substantial
preparation of the work by contract;
(d)    establish a sound work program for each fiscal year based on an assessment of
work priority and availability of funding;
(e)    establish an effective means of control over the work and the organization;
(f)    determine equipment needs in light of the objective to carry out a substantial
amount of road works by contract;
(g)    assist in the procurement of equipment;
(h)    assist in establishing a headquarters building in Freetown along with adequate
maintenance facilities for equipment;



71
Page 2 of 10
(i)    establish an adequate accounting system;
(I)    develop and implement suitable manpower development plans and ensure
effective transfer of skills and know-how.
C. Stamnf&/unding and Time Schedules
4.     A summary of the  sistance required is provided below:
Epetd       Punding
Expeb                         Man-months    Start Date    Agency          Remaub
1. Chif Tecnal Advisor (CTA)                                 36      9/92       UNDP    Sbartd
2. Projet Coordinator (PC)                                   36      3/93        IDA
3. Roads Pauning ad Devrpmet Spoeialist (RPDS)               24      7/93       UNDP
4. Roads Mainenane Spes (RMS)                                24      6193         eC
S. Chief Fimnil Adviser & Accountnt (CFAA)                   24      3193         eC      Selecon in progrs
6. Manpowe Development Speoist (MDS)                        24      6/93         eC
7. Managmt Inbomiation Systen Spcialist (MISS)               24      9/93       UNDP
S. Mechanical Enginering/Equipment Specilist (MEES)          36      6/93       UNDP
9. Conseuction Industry Speciali (CIS)                        6      9/93       UNDP
10. Chief MuniciWl Engineer (CME)                            24      3/93        MDA      See Annex 4-3
Job Descriptions
1. Chief Technical Advisor (CTA)
S.     Objectiv: The objectives of the services to be provided by Chief Technical Advisor
(CTA) are to:
(a)    provide management and administrative support to the Highways Branch of
DOW so as to ensure that SLRA becomes fully operational by mid-1993;
(b)    assist in the determination of the type and extent of technical assitance needed
by SLRA when established;
(c)    provide professional and adminis ve support to the Highways Branch of
DOW and, when established, the SLRA in the preparation and implementation
of proposed donor-assisted projects.
6.     Dutim: The CTA shall be the Chief Advisor to the Director General in the execution
of his responsibilities. He shall also act as the team leader of the group of experts, whom he
will help to engage, to provide technical assistance to SLRA. The CTA shall, inter alia, carry
out the following duties:



72
Annex 4-5
Page 3 of 10
(a)    monitor the progreu of establishing the SLRA an provide management
support to expedite it and provide renements needed to ensure that SLRA is
established and fully operational by mid 1993;
(b)   provide needed inputs to develop and put in place operations, procurement,
and administrative manuals required for effective performance of SLRA as
and when it is fully established;
(c)    provide management support and appropriate inputs in determining resource
requirements for the effective implementation of the roads infrastructure
program including requirements of funds from budgetary top-ups;
(d)   provide support for the development of procdures and guidelines in the effort
to reduce the excess field and workshop personnel of the DOW Road
Department by introducing a system whereby the excess staff could be
organized as one-man and/or small size road work contractors ensuring that
when SLRA is fully operational by mid-1993, it will be staffed only with
essential number of public service employees;
(e)    provide professional support to SLRA senior staff to develop short and long
term staff training program;
(tf)    provide support to SLRA to develop procedures, guidelines and formats for
fieldwork performance reporting Including the effective control of utilization
of labor materials and equipment in line with Road Maintenance performance
budgeting system;
(g)   prepare draft project documents for full-scale UNDP assistance.
(h)    monitor and report the performance of the technical assistance and externally
funded projects, particularly with regard to achievement of stated objectives,
developmental impacts and transfer of skills.
7.    Oualificant: The expert shall have the minimum of a B.Sc. Degree in Civil
Engineering and experience of at least 15 years, of which at least 10 years should be working
in a public highway agency. He must be fluent in English. He must have adequate working
experience in all the task specified above. Experience in processing procurement of works,
goods and services according to the World Bank and other donor agencies' procurement
guideline is of vital importance.
2. E!roect Coordinator (MC
8.    The Project Coordinator (PC) is to operat as the coordinating person for the
planning, implementing and monitoring of all donor-assisted projects being carried out by the
Highway Branch of DOW/SLRA.
9.    jugj: The duties of the PC are to:



73
Page 4 of 10
(a)    provide professional support to DOW Roads Branch/SLRA profeusionals in
coordinating, monitoring and reviewing the works of design and supervision
consultants, RRMP and the feeder roads component of R-ASSP as well as
other donor-assisted projects;
(b)   provide professional services for processing procurement for works, goods
and services in line with required procurement guidelines;
(c)    develop detailed project implementation schedules and follow up and monitor
individual programs;
(d)   ensure that the schedules are met by providing needed technical and
management support to achieve set targets;
(e)    monitor and evaluate contractors', suppliers' and consultants' contracts and
provide professional recommendations for actions to be taken to resolve any
problems;
(t)   coordinate flow of information and plan of actions in project implementation
between implementing agencies and financing agencies; and
(X)    maintain technical and financial records for the projects as specified in credit
agreements for review by GOSL and financing agencies which at project
completion would be used for the project completion reports.
10.   Oulitlsm: Applicants for the job of project coordinator shall have the following
miniImu qualifications:
(a)    Degree in Civil Engineering;
(b)    minimum of 15 years experience of which 10 years have been working in
highway engineering works;
(c)    minimum of 5 years management working experience of a public road agency;
(d)   conversant in processing procurement for works, goods and services and
adequate knowledge in procurement guidelines of financing agencies like the
World Bank, EC, AfDB, etc.;
(e)   adequate experience in civil works contract management and quality control;
(f)   fluent in English.
3.  db Planning-& Develonment Secdalist (L- .S1
11.   The Roads Planning & Development Specialist (RPDS) shall be the chief technical
advisor to the Director (Development) and provide professional and administrative support to
help him perform his functions.



74
Annex 45
Page 5 of 10
12.   Dutim: Specifically, the RPDS will be required to:
(a)   provide support in planning functions by helping to design and implement
systems for the preparation of long-, medium- and short-tm trnk* and feeder
road development programs;
(b)   provide professional support in designing which will ensure that the inventory
of roads, bridges and ferries is kept up-to-date and in sufficient detail to
enable improvement needs to be assessed;
(c)    help to establish and review design standards for all classes of roads;
(d)   provide professional support in contract management by assisting in the
review and clearance of engineering designs for civil works to be executed
under multilateral and bilateral funding;
(e)   help in developing detailed project implementation schedules and follow up,
monitor and ensure that the schedules are met;
(f)   assist in the preparation of guidelines to be used in preparing monthly and
quarterly contract supervision reports for development and major rehabilitation
projects.
13.   Oualificatio : Applicants must have the following qualifications:
(a)    a degree in civil engineering;
(b)    a minimum of 15 years working experience of which 10 year must have been
spent in highway engineering with specific responsibility for highway
planning, designing and highway contracting and contract management;
(c)   candidates should have worked in developing countries preferably in Africa
and be fluent in English.
4. Roads Maintenance Snedalist (RMS)
14.   The Roads Maintenance Specialist (RMS) is to be the chief technical advisor to the
Director (Maintenance) of SLRA and provide professional engineering support to help him
perform his functions.
15.   Dutim: The RMS shall be required to do the following:
(a)   help develop a professional, sound and effective road maintenance system;
(b)   provide professional support in carrying out an inventory and condition survey
of all roads under maintenance, applying technically sound procedures. The



75                          Annx45
Page 6 of 10
consultant shall help to develop an appropriate and technically acceptable
format and procedure for road inventory and condition survey;
(c)    provide support in developing a five-year road mainteace work program
covering roads presently under maintenance and those to be rehabilitated
during the five year period;
(d)   help to develop annual quantity and performance standards for each activity
considering such factors contributing to the frequency of maintenance as: age
and condition of roads; climatic condition; average daily traffic; etc.;
(e)   advise in identifying the maintenance activities which are appropriate for
contract and group the total work program into contract and force account
methods of execution;
(f)   based on the maintenance program identified, the consultant shall assist in
determining requirements of equipment by type and size, tools by type and
labor force by job classification;
(g)   provide professional support to refine the one-man contractor system for the
execution of specific routine maintenance activities.
16.    ualificatin: Applicants must have the following qualifications:
(a)    a degree in civil engineering;
(b)    a minimum of 15 years working experience of which 10 years must have been
spent in highway engineering with specific responsibility for design,
implementation and operation of a road maintenance management system;
(c)    must be familiar with international contracting procedures for highway
construction and maintenance works;
(d)   candidates should have worked in developing countries preferably in Africa
and be fluent in English.
5. Chief Filnandal Adviser & Accountant (CFAAM
17.   The Chief Financial Adviser & Accountant (CFAA) will lead in the development and
implementation of financial and accounting system for SLRA and be the Chief Financial
Advisor to the SLRA and function as SLRA's Chief Accountant.
18.   Dutim are:
(a)    design and implement computer-based financial systems which can share data
bases. Systems should include: budget system; accounting system;
disbursement system; procurement system; cost accounting and management
reporting; and audit rules and procedures;



76
Annex 45
Page 7 of 10
(b)   ausist in preparation of a 5-year Rolling Investment Plan for SLRA, being
responsible for the financial analyses;
(c)    ensure that SLRA Enabling Law has financial regulations for the on-going
funding and financial security of SLRA;
(d)    work with Ministry of Finance to ensure smooth implementation of financial
plan;
(e)   supervise keeping of all project accounts under each financing agency as
required under each cofinancing agreement; and
(f)    direct ttaining in the use of the computer systems and work with the Auditor
and MIS specialist in designing security plans for the systems and databases.
19.   OulificOat 1: Senior financial executive with certificates or degrees appropriate to
financia system development, with at least 10 years experience in developing, implementing
and managing financial system operations as well as financial planning and budgeting in
developing countries, preferably in Africa. Candidates should have experience in both the
public and private sectors, should have significant knowledge of computer, hardware and
software options for financial and accounting operations, and should have knowledge of
taxation, user fee or road fund financing, privatization and international donor institutions and
policies. Candidates should have experience in disbursement and voucher systems,
contracing and procurement systems, cost accounting and performance monitoring system,
and audit. Candidate should have experience in arranging financing for major capital
projects. He must be fluent in English.
6. Manpower Development Spegalist (MDS)
20.   The Manpower Development Specialist (MDS) will provide technical and
administrative support to the chief of training in the performance of his functions.
21.   u12te are:
(a)    design and implementation of training policy and programs for SLRA;
(b)    assist in establishment of departmental procedures and installation of training
program management systems;
(c)    based on training needs assessment, design curriculum, identify training
sources, assist in development of training materials, identify personnel for
training and schedule training of staff in such a way as to cause least
disruption to normal SLRA operations;
(d)    oversee the rehabilitation and re-equipping of the Tower Hill Training School;
(e)    establish and assist in running the Field Training in Center at Grafton;



77
ADnnex 45
Page 8 of 10
(f)    establish a system for monitoring and evaluating all training systems whether
in-house, intra-regional, overseas or by contract with IPAM and FBC.
22.   Oualification: Would be a human resource development specialist with a degree in
educ tion, masnaement or administration, and specific experience in design and
implementation of training programs. Candidate should have background in institutional
development for public works training departments. Candidates who are familiar with
highway training programs will have an advantage. Candidates should have worked in
developing countries preferably in Africa and be fluent in Enlish.
7. Management Information Sntem Sdallt  SS
23.   Dutim. Prepare and/or adapt software required for: road inventories; traffic data;
maintena    management; financial budgeting control; procurement and store inventory. The
expert would work with other officers to design integrated systems and databases. He/she
will direct software development efforts, training counterparts to design, develop and maintain
required software.
24.   Oualificati: Management Information System Specialist with degree in computer
applications and related fields. At least 10 years of experience in desip, development and
implementation of computerized management systems for financial and operational control.
Must have experience working with highway or other public wor}s agency in developing
countries preferably in Africa and be fluent in English.
S. Mechanical Engineering and Eaulpment Secalst (MEFS
25.   Dutim are:
(a)   to assist in establishing a comprehensive plant and equipment management and
control system which would meet the specific requirements of SLRA;
(b)    provide professional support to the Director (Equipment & Supplies) to
maintain an inventory control over all plant, equipment and vehicles of the
Authority;
(c)   formulate policies and procedures for the establishment and operation of a
plant and equipment pool for the use of private contrctors;
(d)    assist in planning and controlling the maintenance and repair of all plant,
equipment and vehicles of the Authority;
(e)    assist in providing specifications for purchase of plant, equipment and vehiles
and in evaluation of tenders.
26.   Oualification: Applicants must have the following qualifications:
(a)    a degree or diploma in mechanical engineering;



78
Annex 4-5
Page 9 of 10
(b)    a minimum of 15 years working experience as plant and equipment manager
in a public works organization;
(c)    should have worked in developing countries preferably in Africa and be fluent
in English.
9. Construction Industry Spocalist (CIS)
27.   The Construction Industry Specialist (CIS) is to create a corp of local (domestic)
contractors technically and managerially competent to execute most periodic and routine
maintenance works within the shortest possible time.
28.   Dutie: The duties of the CIS will include:
(a)   investigate and evaluate present Government procedures concerning
prequalification of contractors, bidding and awarding of contracts, payment
procedures of contractors, and make recommendations for improvements;
(b)    assist SLRA to establish a register of local contractors for road works based
on a sufficient number of financial categories to satisfy SLRA's program of
roads construction and maintenance and help in setting up procedures for
upgrading the register;
(c)    provide technical and managerial assistance to local contractors to develop
their abilities in works preparation and execution and certificate preparation;
(d)    prepare indices and formulae for systematic price adjustments of works items
carried out by road contractors and set out procedures for regular publication;
(e)   facilitate training of local contractors as needed.
29.   Oualification: Applicants are expected to have the following qualifications:
(a)    a degree in civil engineering;
(b)    at least 15 years experience in civil works, site management, costing, bidding
and quality control;
(c)    work experience in Africa (preferably in West Africa) is essential and be
fluent in English.
Reporting
30.   Except in the case of the PC, the technical assistance to SLRA will be provided
through the UNDP according to their procurement guidelines. The services of the PC and the
Municipal Engineer (see Annex 43) are expected to be provided by a consulting firm and
financed by IDA. The consultant shall prepare and submit inception and final reports. The
report submission, review schedules and copies to be provided are as follows:



79
Annex 4-5
Page 10 of 10
(a)   Incetion KM    (10 copies): within two months of commencement of work
in Sierra Leone. In the report, the consultant should outline his preliminary
findings, and an outline of proposed approach and schedule for the remainder
of his assignment;
(b)   Final Icpion R      (10 copies): within four months after receiving
comments on the Inception Report;
(c)    FinalR=rt (25 copies): within 3 months of the end of his assignment
outlining results accomplished and with recommendation of any further
initiative needed to accomplish the objectives of the consultancy. This report
should include proposed terms of reference for possible follow-up technical
assistance to help implement the recommendations contained in the Final
Report. Comments will be provided on the Draft Final Report within three
weeks after submission.
10. Chief Munidipal Engineer (CME)
31.   See details given under Annex 4-3, under CBD road components.
Sour: UNDP/AF4IN, September 1992



Annex 4-6
Page 1 of 8
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
lhrining and Manpower Development for SLRA
1.    As SLRA is a new entity and will be staffed with new personnel, many of whom have
had little experience on highway work, a comprehensive training program has been prepared
to train staff at all levels. Local institutions will be used to the extent possible and these will
be strengthened under the project. The following program for training and manpower
development is based on a UNDP report titled 'Establishment of Sierra Leone Roads
Authority' dated June 1992, prepared by the same consultant who recommended the
establishment of the SLRA in an earlier report.1/
Training and Manpower Development
2.    The training programs designed for the SLRA can be grouped under the following
categories:
(a)   local training packages comprising short courses and seminars tailor-made for
SLRA staff at the Institute of Public Administration and Management (IPAM)
and short refresher courses for the professional and sub-professional staff at
the faculty of Engineering of Fourah Bay College (FBC);
(b)    on-going or permanent technical, administrative and secretarial courses to be
provided at a rehabilitated and re-equipped Tower Hill Training School;
(c)   practical training in road maintenance and construction techniques as well as
in proper handling and operational techniques of plant and equipment to be
provided at a Field Training Center at Grafton;
(d)   overseas training courses to be made available to the Directorate of Technical
Divisional Heads; and
(e)   regional study tours by senior engineering staff.
[1 Consultant Services for the Establishment of a Roads Authority by E.O. Donkor, October
1991; UNDP funded study. SIL 87/008.



81
Ann46
Page 2 of 8
Local Training
3.    Courses at IPAM. The IPAM package would comprise five programs as follows:
Program 1:   Professional Engineering Staff
Program 2:   Financial Staff
Program 3:   Administrative Staff
Program 4:   Sub-professional Staff
Program 5:   Secretarial Staff
(a)    Program 1. Program 1 would train 22 of SLRA's senior engineers including
the Directorate. It will be a seminar aimed at the following:
-     to update and reinforce some specific management skills - planning,
delegating, communication and controlling;
-     to update and reinforce other management and administrative skills;
-     to introduce participants to personal computers (PC) and its scope in
Engineering Management.
Duration:    2 x 5 days (11 each)
Venue:       IPAM
Content:     - The corporate objective
- Organization Design and Development
- Financial Management for Non-financial Executives
- Program Planning, Budgeting and Evaluation
- Contractual issues in Management including Loan
- Negotiation
- Computers in Management
(b)    Program 2. Initially this program is for the training of 19 finance and
accounting personnel of SLRA. It is aimed at developing participants' skills,
examining the SLRA accounting and financial management system, modern
methods of effective financial planning and control, introducing to
computerized accounting systems and reviewing and reinforcing SLRA
internal audit objectives and procedures.
Duration:    2 weeks (10 days)
Venue:       IPAM
(c)    Program 3. Initially this is for the training of 15 stores and procurement
personnel of SLRA. Objectives of this course include enhancement of
participants' skills, teaching participants to understand the relevance and
significance of stock and control of stores to the operation of SLRA, updating
participants' knowledge in local and international procurement techniques,
introduction to the use of computers in the management of stores and stock
control.
Duration:    2 weeks



82
Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
Venue:  *    IPAM
(d)    Program 4. This program will train the middle-level and support services
personnel of SLRA.
(i)    Middle-level Management Staff: A total of 50 staff broken into 2
groups of 25 staff, will be equipped with requisite management
knowledge to understand SLRA's mission and organization. The
course content will include:
-     Human relations and results attainment
-     Principles of output-directed delegation
-     Effective communication skills
-     Introduction to computers
Duration:    1 week x 25 personnel (2 weeks)
Venue:       IPAM
(ii)   Support Staff: Training will afford participants the opportunity to
understand the use of computers in information management.
Participants will gain practical and hands-on experience on computers
including the use of software packages.
No. of Staff:  24 divided into 2 groups of 12 each
Duration:    10 days
Venue:       IPAM
(e)    Program 5: Sub-professional Technical Staf. A total of 500 sub-professional
technical staff, broken into 20 groups of 25 participants each, would be
trained to acquire basic skills, acquire management communication skills and
improved techniques in management systems.
Duration:    24 weeks (25 per course for every 2 weeks)
Venue:       Various locations
Content:     Understanding SLRA interdepartmental relations basic of
Supervision Work Planning.
Effective Presentation Skills
-     giving instruction
-     oral reporting
-     report writing
Maintenance Management
-     planned
-     routine
-     preventive
Third Party Liabilities
-     industrial accidents



83
Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
-     factories act
-     workmen's compensation
(f)    Program 5: Secretarial Personnel. 30 SLRA secretarial staff will be trained
in the core areas of office communication skills, office administration, office
services and word processing.
Duration:     1 week (15 persons x 2 courses)
Venue:       IPAM
4.    Training at FBC. The Faculty of Engineering of Fourah Bay College (FBC) has
agreed to organize two Engineering Refresher/Training Courses for professional and sub-
professional technical staff as follows:
(a)    Course 1. In Course 1, 30 engineers will be trained in new technical skills
and will have an opportunity to raise their engineering knowledge.
Content: -   Transportation planning and project evaluation
-   Contract preparation and management
-   Road maintenance management systems and practices
-   Highway design systems and improved design methods
including road design software
-   Soils and materials sampling and testing practices
-   Asphalt technology and design of asphalt mixes
-   Feeder roads maintenance systems
-   Feeder roads development and prioritization methods
-    The engineer in society.
Duration:     16 days
(b)    Course 2. Course 2 will train 300 of the following sub-professional technical
staff of SLRA:
-     Road and Mechanical Superintendents
-     Road Foremen and Overseers
-     Technical Officers in Materials, Mechanical Engineering, Survey and
Design, Bridges and Ferries
The course objectives will be to provide participants with improved skills and
techniques.
Content: -   Road maintenance management system
-   Interpretation of contracts
-   Basic surveying techniques
-   Basic soils and materials, testing and road construction method
-   Basic asphalt technology
-   Role of the supervisor
-   Basic workshop safety practices
-   Electrical systems and components
-   Fuel systems and components



84                    Anex
PageS of 8
Routine vehicle servicing
Lubrication techniques
Duration:    4 weeks (20 days)
5.    Other Loca Training. The Tower Hill Training School is to be rehabilitated a  re
equipped so that it can effectively cater for the theoretical and analytical phase of the sub-
professional staff. A budget of $200,000 is estimated to be adequate in restoring the premise
to an acceptable state for the required purpose.
6.    With regards to practical training, the SLRA is to establish a Field Training Center at
Grafton, to train the staff in road maintenance and construction techniques as well as the
mechanics and operators in proper handling and operational techniques. Estimated cost is
$200,000.
Ovrseas Training
7.    The Directorate and Technical Divisional Heads of the Authority will benefit from
various oversea courses and attachments. The first three-year SLRA training and Manpower
Development program may be summarized as shown in the table below.



Annex 4-6
85                   Page 6 of 8
4   '4                 Ii! 
M i]                  *1 3*1i    g       X
ii !0         iJi       *;tl                 II0 
X    II       I II      iii      [i        iix
=~~~~1 j] I3  S  3  s
f ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     
e 4 E,                            I                            
I]    3    X I   j140]X]X    S^   i    S
.s ~I                       hi    .    
at   ]       ]         *~   ~   ~~~~t  ]
_i         ii        i ii     ii          i



86                           Annex 4-6
t                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 7 of 8
fi#            z
aR            0
_         _             i    " 
11* Z        I                 
0XA6l   --            -      -iXl   -s
S.           .             a     .      a



87
Page 8 of 8
8.    Fnding for this taining component which comprises a three-year time horizon will be
provided by EC and the UNDP as shown in the table below. SLRA will be the executing
agent, assisted by the UNDP financed Chief Technical Advisor for the first year and later by
the Manpower Development Advisor.
GR.QBAM                                COST ESTIMATE ($)  FUNDING AGENCY
1. ~Imz Tinn
(a) IPAM Cours                                  150,000          UNDP/IDA
(b) FBC Coa                                     100,000          UNDPADA
(c) Tower Hill Taining School Rdebilitation     200,000          UNDPAIDA
(d) Orfton Field Trining Center                 200,000          UNDPADA
2. Ovene Courm
(a) Courms for the Direore                      100,000          AfDB
(b) Regional Study Tour/Courses for Divisional Heads   150,000   AfDB
(c) Odher S _mnr & Corses to be Identified      E900             IDA
TOTAL                                 LOOO.OOQ
9.    Local training will be contracted to local educational institutions by SLRA. Contracts
will be based on unit rates already developed by the UNDP and will be subject to the CTA's
review and IDA's clearance. The detailed training program for the first year in terms of
individuals and training needs will be agreed before March 31, 1993. For subsequent years,
areement with IDA will be reached before December 1993.
UNDP/AF4IN, September 1992



88
Annex 4-7
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Equipment Listfor Skrra Leone Roads Author*y (SLRA)
The following is a list of equipment required by SLRA to establish 2 mobile
maintenance units, one for regravelling and the other for resealing, expected to be funded by
Government of Japan (JICA).
Mobile Maintenance Units                                         No. of Units
A.    REGRAVELLING UNIT
Tipper Trucks (Nissan single back axles)                      6
Motor Graders                                                 4
Tractor/Dozer (D8)                                            1
Wheel Loaders                                                 2
10/12t Vibrating Rollers                                     2
Water Tankers 2000 gallons (self suction and delivery)        2
Pick-up Twin Cab for supervision                              3
B.    RESEALING UNIT
Tipper Trucks Nissan (single back axles)                      6
Bitumen Distributor                                           2
Wheel Loaders                                                 2
10/12t Vibrating Rollers                                     2
Hand Tar Sprayers                                             2
Hand Vibrating Rollers                                        4
Mobile Asphalt Plant (10 tonnes/hour)                         1
Mobile Crushing Plant                                         1
Prime Mover & Trailer                                         2
Compressors with Accessories for soft rock breaking and
drilling hard rock for blasting complete                    2
Pick-up Twin Cab for supervision                              3
Mobile Mechanical Service Truck with all facilities and
accessories for field repairs & servicing of equipment     2



89
A= 4-7
Page 2 of 2
1.    Total cost of eqxipme  lisd above                             $3.00 M
2.    Spare par for all equipmet mnti  to 15% of dte                 $0.45 M
total value of above equipment
3.    Spare par for Niusn trucks and pick-ups, etc., cur y           $1.00 M
avaiable in the mobilo units an procured under
1989 Japanese Grant
4.    Stengening the Contal Workhop md provison of                        M
facilides for overhaul of vehicles, plas, otc.
TOTAL                                                       M
-mace: Department of WorkMs/DA, September 1992



90
Page 1 of 4
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABIHTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Tenwm of Reference for Transpoit Secdor Studies
A. Inland Water Transport Study
Background
1.    The Government of Sierra Leone intends to study in detail the technical and economic
feasibility of expanding existing water transport routes and establishing new routes to
complement the road transport network and to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the
Department of Transport, Communications and Tourism (DTC). Particular attention is to be
paid to the need and justification of: (i) improving services of the offshore islands along the
coast; (ii) dredging inland waterways so that larger ships can be used to gain access to inner
parts; and (iii) improving the services to river ports through the installation of navigational
aids and radio communications, and better designed ships and port facilities. The study will
be the responsibility of the Sierra Leone Road Authority (SLRA) which will coordinate
closely with the DTC.
Objectives
2.    The purpose of this study is to determine the technical and economic feasibility of
expanding existing coastal and river transport systems and establishing new ones to
complement the road transport networks which currently account for over 95% of the
movements of passengers and goods in the country.
3.    The study will also examine and make recommendations for sector studies needed to
improve planning and sector management with market orientation, improve transport data
collection and analysis, identify office equipment for the planning unit, and to identify staff
training program to improve sector management.
Scope of Consulting Services
4.    General: The Consultant shall perform all duties including background studies of the
transport sector, technical and economic analysis as shall be required to attain tho objectives
given in paras 2 and 3 above. In the conduct of this work, the Consultant shall cooperate
fully with Government and, in particular, the DTC and SLRA, which will provide the data,
copies of relevant studies previously undertaken and any other information that may be
available. The Consultant shall also coordinate this work with other studies and surveys
already undertaken or being carried out by the consultants in so far as they may relate to
coastal and river transport systems. The Consultant shall however, retain full responsibility
for the analysis and interpretations of all data collected and for the conclusions and
recommendations contained in their reports.



91
Annex 4-8
Page 2 of 4
Background Study of Coastal and River Transport
5.    The Consultant shall:
(a)    make a comprehensive description of the coastal and river transport as it
presently exists, giving details of the number, size and types of vessels in use
and their load and passenger carrying capacities;
(b)    obtain the capital costs of the vessels as well as their maintenance and running
costs;
(c)   identify the commodities transported and estimate the frequency of travel
along different routes to determine the tonnage and number of passengers
transported yearly;
(d)    obtain to the extent possible, existing tariffs on the different routes served by
these vessels and from other relevant economic data, compute and make
recommendations for regulated tariffs;
(e)    make recommendation for licensing fees for the different categories of vessels;
(f)    undertake the necessary surveys of the river courses to ascertain the feasibility
of extending them further upstream based on technical and economic
considerations;
(g)    conduct such technical and economic studies as deemed necessary to establish
new water transport routes and landing facilities;
(h)    examine and survey the landing facilities available with a view to improving
those that are inadequate and constructing new facilities where those could be
technically and economically justified;
(i)   initiate safety rules and regulations for the operation of existing vessels as well
as safety standards for the construction of new vessels.
Institutional Strengthening
6.    The Consultant shall carry out such key sector studies as needed to:
G)    improve planning and sector management with market orientation;
(k)   improve transport data collection, classification, and analysis of those data;
()    identify the office equipment necessary to set up the Planning Unit;
(m)   identify the position of the Planning Unit in the organization chart of the
DTC;



92
Amnex 4-
Page 3 of 4
(n)   identify and show schematically the staff requirements for the Planning Unit
and a planned program of training to improve sector management.
7.    Mhe Consultant shall provide the following reports in English:
(o)   Inception Report: an Inception Report summarizing the initial findings of the
consultant (8 copies to Permanent Secretary, DTC and Director General of
SLRA) to be submitted within 30 days after the date of commencement;
(p)   Interim Reprt: an Interim Report outlining the method of approach to be
adopted to achieve the aims and objectives outlined in paras 6 and 7 above (8
copies) to be submitted to the Permanent Secretary, DTC and Director
General, SLRA within ... months after the date of commencement;
(q)    Draft Final Reo: the Draft Final Report shall include an Executive
Summary of the major technical and economic findings and the
recommendations of the consultant. The report shall further justify the
economic and technical solutions induced, the methodology adopted, and the
proposal submitted for the strengthening of the Planning Unit of the DTC.
The consultant shall submit 8 copies of the report to the Permanent Secretary,
DTC and Director General of SLRA within ...... months of the date of
commencement. The Draft Final Report will be discussed in a joint meeting
to be attended by representatives from DTC, SLRA and the Consultant;
(r)    Final Rer: Following the joint discussions of the Draft Final Report the
Consultant shall submit 8 copies of the Final Report within 4 weeks of the
joint discussion of the Draft Final Report.
All reports shall be jointly submitted to: The Director General, SLRA, Freetown; and
The Permanent Secretary, DTC, Freetown.
B. General Transport Sector Study
The purpose of the study is to:
(i)    Review various modes of transport (ports, shipping, air traffic, water
transport, non-motorized transport, and road transport etc.); to
examine the market share of each mode and to evaluate the role of
private and/or public sector involvement; analyze the status of
transport regulation, its reform, particularly to increase competition
and efficiency in the private sector to strengthen Government's
capacity for planning and policy formulation.
(ii)    Assess investment levels, financial requirements, and the means for
cost recovery.



93
Anmex 4-
Page 4 of 4
(iii)   Appraise the planning status, and review priorities for investments in
each sub-mode of the transport sector.
(v)   Review public passenger transport including the role of private/public
sector, removal of constraints to private sector, introduction of the
concept of Public Services Obligation (PSO) for public and private
sector firms, and ways of improving Govormment policies in public
transport. In this connection, review the functions and performance of
the Road Transport Corporation, recommend suitable choges needed
for greater efficiency with the possibility of re-organization and
privatization or commercialization.
(v)    Rectify anomalies in Motor Vehicle Act and assist in updadng.
(vi)   Review Road Taxation and User Charge Levels and sugest
adjustments if needed.
(vii)  Analyze rationale for Public Transport routes.
(viii)  Examine the economic feasibility of selected Transport Projects.
ag=: Department of Works/AF4IN, September 1992



94
Annex 49
Page 1 of 5
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Pdot Component for Promoting Non-Motorzed Iranspoit (NVM)
Background
1.    Non-motorized transport (NMT), such as bicycles, cycle trailers and other types are
not widely used in Sierra Leone, though they would provide sustainable low-cost transport,
particularly for the rural and urban poor. The proposed project includes a component to
promote the use of NMT, based on recent successful Bank experience in Ghana and the long-
term experience in Asia.
2.    A brief description of the proposed component and its implementation arrangements
are given in paras 4.15-4.16, and 4.30 of the SAR. This annex provides additional details.
The Ghana Model and Its Adaptation
3.    This project builds up on experience gained from a pilot project in Ghana under
Cr. 1858-GH (1988), under which various types of NMT vehicles were locally produced for
trial by potential users (NGOs), and finally three types were selected as widely acceptable:
(a) a bicycle-trailer to carry about 120 kgs, which can be hooked to a bicycle, or could also
be unhooked and used as a pull or push cart, which will replace headloading of goods in the
rural areas; (b) a bicycle-trailer designed as a rural ambulance to carry sick persons; and
(c) a farm vehicle (FW) which has a wheel at the center so that the weight is on the wheel and
not on the hands which push it (a modified wheel barrow), suitable as push cart on bush
tracks. These vehicles are now commercially produced and marketed in Ghana though on a
small scale. The Ghana experience showed that since the cost of a trailer and bicycle together
was about US$200 equivalent, the Ghanaian farmers with a per capita income of about
US$220 found it difficult to invest in it, unless some credit schemes or hire-purchase
programs were available; such credit schemes are now being launched through follow-up
projects.
4.    The main changes for adapting this program to Sierra Leone will be: (i) start
with prototypes from Ghana which have been tried out in somewhat similar environment;
(ii) further modify designs, if needed, to suit local needs based on feedback from users
during the trial period; and (iii) implementation through an NGO like P.I. with its' local
affiliates which already provide rural credit services to members so that the purchase of the
vehicles by poor rural farmers and women would be facilitated through a credit program.



Annex 4-9
Page 2 of 5
Project Costs and Components
5.    The total cost of the pilot component is estimated at US$810,000 equivalent. Detailed
cost estimates are as follows:
Cost
($ equivalent)
1. Bicycles (2000 units)                                             200,000
2. Trailers (goods) (1700 units)                                     170,000
3. Trailers (rural ambulance) (300 units)                             60,000
4. Farm Vehicles (300 units)                                          25,000
5. Production Training (tech. asst.)                                  30,000
6. Field staff and expenses for monitoring, feedback, supervision,
and collection of credit repayment from users. (5 persons x 4
years x $400 per person)                                           80,000
7. Supervision Vehicles                                               40,000
8. Post-evaluation: surveys and report (2 mm expert and local staff)  40,000
9. Project management (contract with P.I.)                            70,000
10. Assistance to other NGOs                                          50,000
11. Unallocated                                                       45,000
TOTAL                                                         810,000
Note: Prices noted above include price contingencies; they exclude taxes as taxes on these
are expected to be exempted. Unit costs are estimates based on Ghana experience; if
prices are higher, the actual number of units procured, mainly of bicycles, will be
reduced, the number of bicycles procured will equal the total number of trailers.
Implementation Arrangements
6.    SLRA will be the main agency responsible for the component; most aspects will be
implemented by Plan International through about 15 credit associations supported by P.I.,
which is spread over the country, with main concentration in the areas near Bo, Kenema,
Makeni, Moyamba and Freetown. There are no other well organized NGOs in Sierra Leone,
with regional offices, and credit association linkages which can do such distribution on credit



96
Page 3 of 5
terms. However, during project imple_mtion SLRA will try to identify suitable NGOs,
outide P.I., to distribute to other potenti users.
7.    SLRA will directly handle the following aspects:
(a)    Arranging import of prototype;
(b)    Distribution of some NMT units (about 15%) to other NGOs (outside P.I.);
(c)    Contract with P.I. to implement the production training, production and
procurement, distribution of about 8085% of the units (and 100% if other
NOOs cannot be located as under (b)), and monitoring and evaluation;
(d)    To supervise and asist P.I.'s work; and
(e)    Arrange progress reporting, monitoring and final evaluation of the compont
with emphasis on project benefits, socioeconomic impact asssment, ad
meaures needed for increased commercial production and promotion of NMT
nationally.
otract with Pi.
S.    The terms of the contract should be acceptable to IDA. Salient features of the
contract are:
(a)    The approximate value of all components to be maned by P.I. is expected to
be about US$450,000 equivalent. P.I. will be reimbursed on the buis of
actual costs incurred for eligible items listed in the contrt, which will
include cost of materials and services to be procured, staff and related costs
for implementation based on agreed norms, and a fee (about 15%) for other
implementation overheads. A schedule of payments including a downpaymst
of about 15% on start of the project will be specified in the contract. Unit
costs for various items will be included in the contract based on estmate
prepared by SLRA with the help of its consultants and Chief Technical
Adviser, and will be agreed with the Association.
(b)   P.I. will maintain accounts relatng to the pilot component, subject to
independent audit acceptable to IDA, and will provide progres reports u
specified.
(c)    P.I. will follow procurement rules consistent with IDA rules a specfied in
para 4.29 of SAR, which will be spelled out in the Agreement. Procuremet
procedures will include:
(i)    Purchase of the first batch of bicycles (about 100) ad materals nd
tools for production of trilers (about 300 unis) durig production
tainWg through prudent shopping with at least 3 price quotadons, up
to a maximum value of US$80,000;



97
Annex 4-9
Page 4 of S
(ii)   The remaining bicycles will be bought tbrough local competitive
bidding in about 4 lots spread over 3 years;
(iii)   Potential producers to receive production training will be selected by
P.I. based on agreed objective criteria; these are likely to be 4 NGOs
and 2 small firms in the private sector. During training, P.I. will
supply materials and other inputs and agree on a processing price with
each producer, which will be paid on completion of each unit, advance
money for part of production costs will also be agreed. About 5-6
producers will receive training and manufacture about 300 units under
production training program; and
(iv)   After production training, P.I. will procure trailers based on LCB; the
trained producers and other eligible bidders will compete to produce
and supply the additional units needed.
(d)    Distribution to users for promotion:
(i)    During the trial phase for promotion, some prototypes and units
produced by the production trainees, and matching bicycles, will be
distributed to NGOs for trial and feedback to help improve design to
suit local conditions, and to familiarize the communities about their
use (say, about 100 combination). Some rural ambulance trailers will
be given to rural health centers. No price will be charged u this is
for trial and experimentation.
(ii)   The user groups will include women's organizations, petty traders,
grain sellers, vegetable growers' associations, fishing groups, village
health committees, and rural clinics.
(iii)   After the trial phase, P.I. will procure more NMT units (ncluding
bicycles) and distribute to potential users, mainly members of P.I.
Credit Associations, on a hire-purchase basis; P.I. will recover 50%
of the estimated cost-price over a period of 18 months, after supply of
units to each association; and refund it to SLRA in quarterly
installments; such subsidizadon is jusdfied due to the low income level
of the poor farmers and women who would be the main user; the
promotional objective of this project; and the likely reluctance of
buyers to invest on the units which would still be an expermental
investment for many users.
(iv)   It is expected that after the project, users will buy them at full price
from the trained local producers who may start commercial
production; if the pilot program is successful.
Other NGOs
9.    SLRA will agree with IDA on the list of other NGOs to be included under the tral
and distribution program and other implementation details, before June 1994.



98
Page 5 of 5
10.   The project provides for institutional and other support to assist NGOs in improving
their organization and services, particularly in using NMT. Details of this assistance will be
agreed with IDA before June 1994.
Coordination
11.   A steering committee for coordination will be established by SLRA, with
representatives from P.I. and DTC.
Implenentation Period
12.   Duration of project, including recovery and refund of costs from users is expected to
last 4 years from January 1993. The trial period for use and feedback on design may last 12
months, and production training 15 months from the start. It is expected that if the pilot
project is successful, the use of NMT vehicles will become more widespread through normal
commercial production and sale.



SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Ddaild Cost Tables
Project Cost Summary
(in millions)
Leone                          USS
% Forcign    %Total
Local     Foreign     Totl      Lol   Foreign    Total   Exchang    B   cCosts           Renarm
1. Road Rchabiliation and Maintenance         5627.88   24347.02   29974.90     11.26    48.69    59.95       81.22       76.13   Details in Table 1
2. Strengthenng of Road Managemcat Institutions  680.39    5502.64    6183.04    1.36     11.01    12.37      89.00        15.70  Details in Table 2
3. Support to Dep_ament of Works                 6.72     127.77     134.50      0.01      0.26    0.27       95.00        0.34   Ddails in Table 3
4. Support to Truaspot Sector                   25.28     227.52     252.80      0.05      0.46    0.51       90.00         0.64   Ddails in Table 4
S. Pilot Progrm  for Promotion of NMT           35.65     320.81     356.46      0.07      0.64    0.71       90.00        0.91   Details in Table 5
6. Project Design and Supevision               246.92    2222.32    2469.25      0.49      4.44    4.94       90.00        6.27  Details in Table 6
TOTAL BASEUNE COSIS                         6622.35   32741.10   39370.95     13.25     65.50    78.74      83.18       100.00                          0
Physical Contingenies                  615.64    3126.46    3742.09      1.23      6.25     7.48       83.55        9.50
Price Contingencies                   3747.30    9052.10   12799.40      3.58      2.93    6.51        44.96        8.27
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        10985.79   44926.65   55912.44     18.06    74.68    92.74       80.52       117.77
Vabues Scoad by 100000.0 - 10W11992
(OQ 
01
.14



SIERRA LEONE
Roed Rehabilitation *nd Nintwwe ce  Project
Table 1. Road Rehabflitation  wnd   aintenane
DoteILed Cost Table
Leone
Totals Including Contingenies                        Breakdown of Totals  Incl.Cont.
Base Costs In USS                                                     US$                                                  USS
92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96  96/97   Total                 92/93  9394   94/95   95/6   96/97   Total                  F.Exch    Local    Taexs    Total
..........................................    ------------------------------------------............................ .......................................................................................................
1. INVESTNET COSTS
A. Trunk Rd.Rehab.(IDA)
Tiasoe-o (IDA)                        1.13    1.88    1.88    1.66    0.98    7.53                 1.26    2.15    2.22    2.04    1.26    8.92                  7.39      0.91       0.62       8.92
Bo-Keneme  (IDA)                      1.41    2.34    2.34    2.06    1.22    9.38                 1.57    2.68    2.76    2.54    1.56   11.11                  9.20      1.13       0.78    11.11
Nakeni-Natotoka  (IDA)                0.53    0.89    0.89    0.78    0.46    3.55                 0.59    1.01    1.05    0.96    0.59    4.21                  3.48      0.43       0.29       4.21
Nile 91-Robol Jct (IDA)               0.27    0.45    0.45    0.40    0.24    1.82                 0.31    0.52    0.54    0.49    0.30    2.16                  1.79      0.22       0.15       2.16
Wellington-Uaterloo (IDA)    0.42    0.69    0.69    0.61    0.36    2.77                          0.46    0.79    0.82    0.75    0.46    3.28                  2.72      0.33       0.23       3.28
.... ....---... ------ ---. --.... ........... ... .....--....----... .....------ ... ...........-----.. ............. ......   .........   .....    .......  .......   .........    .....  .......... .......  ........ .......
Sub-Total                              3.76    6.26    6.26    5.51    3.26   25.05                 4.20    7.15    7.38    6.77    4.18   29.67                 24.57       3.03       2.08    29.67
B. Trunk Road Rehab. (EEC)
Lunear-Makeni (EEC)                  0.91    1.51    1.51    1.33    0.79    6.05                  1.01    1.73    1.78    1.64    1.01    7.17                  5.94      0.73       0.50       7.17
Penlap-Sendegu Jct. (EEC)    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.47    0.47                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.61    0.61                  0.50      0.07       0.04       0.61
Sendegu Jct-Kr mkeiW   (EEC    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.38    0.77                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.47    0.49    0.97                  0.79      0.11       0.07       0.97
...... ------ ------ ------. ------ ---.. --.. ....... ...... ....... ...... ....... ......                              ..... .... ....... ......  .... ...... ... .............. ............ ------....... -
Sub-Total                              0.91    1.51    1.51    1.72    1.65    7.30                 1.01    1.73    1.78    2.11    2.11    8.75                  7.23       0.91       0.61      8.75          °
C. Trunk Rood Rehab. (ADS)
Natotoka-Yangeam  (ADB)               1.64    2.74    2.74    2.41    1.42   10.95                 1.84    3.12    3.23    2.96    1.83   12.97                 10.74       1.32      0.91    12.97
Ye ueme-Sefadu (ADS)                  0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00                 0.00    1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15                  0.95      0.11       0.08       1.15
Sub-Total                              1.64    3.74    2.74    2.41    1.42   11.95                 1.84    4.27    3.23    2.96    1.83   14.12                 11.70       1.43       0.99    14.12
0. Freetown Rds.Rehab.(24km)
City Rds/Drainage Rehab.              1.03    1.72    1.72    1.51    0.89    6.88                 1.15    1.96    2.03    1.86    1.15    8.15                  6.75      0.83       0.57       8.15
Logist.Sup.City Naint.Unt    0.02    0.05    0.05    0.02    0.00    0.15                          0.03    0.06    0.06    0.03    0.00    0.18                  0.15      0.02       0.01       0.18
City Eng. (Supervision)               0.09    0.19    0.18    0.09    0.00    0.55                 0.10    0.22    0.21    0.11    0.00    0.64                  0.53      0.06       0.04       0.64
...... ------.. ------    ------... ------    ---.... -- .  . ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......   ....... . .... ...... . . -------    ----    --......... ......... ......... ... .................. .. ....._ ...
Sub-Total                              1.14    1.96    1.95    1.63    0.89    7.58                 1.28    2.24    2.30    2.00    1.15    8.97                  7.43       0.91       0.63      8.97
E. Cont.Nunt.& Sup.Dom.Contr
Civil Works (GOOT/IDA)                0.80    1.33    1.33    1.17    0.69    5.33                 0.94    1.67    1.77    1.68    1.07    7.12                  2.42      4.35       0.36       7.12
Contractor training(UNDP)    0.16    0.16    0.11    0.11    0.00    0.54                          0.18    0.18    0.12    0.13    0.00    0.61                  0.54       0.04      0.03       0.61
Prvn. of Light EquIp(IDA)    0.42    0.42    0.21    0.00    0.00    1.04                          0.46    0.46    0.24    0.00    0.00    1.16                  1.03      0.07       0.06       1.16
Tech. Assist.(48   )(UWDP)    0.18    0.17    0.17    0.16    0.00    0.68                         0.19    0.19    0.19    0.19    0.00    0.77                  0.68      0.05       0.04       0.77
UM Voltnrs.(2x4aam)(UNDP)    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.00    0.17                          0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.19                  0.17       0.01       0.01      0.19
Loc.Consult.(144e)(UIDP)    0.06    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.00    0.31                           0.06    0.09    0.09    0.09    0.00    0.35                  0.31      0.02       0.02       0.35
...... ------           ....------............ ... ...... ... .------.................------... ...... ... ..---...........--.... .. ......    ......   .........     .......   ..........     .......  . ..........    .......     ........    .......
Sub-Total                              1.67    2.20    1.94    1.56    0.69    8.06                 1.89    2.63    2.46    2.14    1.07   10.19                  5.15       4.54       0.51    10.19
.... -. .... -. .... -   .... -  .... -. .... -. -.. - - - --    - -- - - -    -- - -- -    -- -- -- - - .. ... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... . .. .. ..    .. .. .. . . .. .. . . . .--- .--- .-- .--- .a .
Total  INVESTMENT COSTS                         9.13   15.68   14.40   12.82    7.91   59.95                10.22   18.02   17.15   15.96   10.33   71.70                 56.07    10.81         4.82    71.70
Total                                       9.13   15.68   14.40   12.82    7.91   59.95                10.22   18.02   17.15   15.98   10.33   71.70                 56.07    10.81         4.82    71.70    K')
1> I.Road Maintennce by contract  nd   upport for Domestic contractors.                                                                                                                                             e-  -
<2> 2.F/Town * Free Town
- Values scaled by 1000000.0   10/8/1992   1:45



SIERRA LEONE
Rood Rehabilitation wnd Maintenance Project
Table 2. Strengthening of Road Management Institutions
Detailed Cost Table
Leone
TotaLs Including Contingencies          Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Base Costs in LUS                                   USS                                     usL
92/93  93/94 94/95  95/96 96/97 Total        92/93  93/94 94/95  95/96  96/97  Total       F.Exch   Local  Taxes  Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
. .... .......
A. Tech.Assist.to SLRA
Chief Tech.Exp (36ms)UNDP   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.67       0.25   0.25   0.26   0.00   0.00   0.75       0.67    0.05    0.04    0.75
Rd.PLn/Dev.Exp.(24in)UNDP   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.44       0.24   0.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.49        0.44    0.03    0.02    0.49
Road Naint. Exp t24m_EEC   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.4         0.24   0.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.49       0.44    0.03    0.02    0.49
Fin.& Acct.Expert(24m)EEC   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.44      0.24   0.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.49        0.44    0.03    0.02    0.49
Manpw  Dev. Exp.(24_)EEC   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.0    0.44        0.24   0.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.49       0.4    0.03    0.02    0.49
Cnstr.lndstly Exp(6_UID   0.11   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.11         0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12        0.11    0.01    0.01    0.12
Mech.Eng/Eqp.Exp(36mm)UND   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.67       0.25   0.25   0.26   0.00   0.00   0.75       0.67   0.05    0.04    0.75
MIS Specialist(24m_) UHDP   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.0   0.44        0.24   0.24  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.48        0.43    0.03    0.02    0.48
Proj.Coordinrt(36m)(IDA)   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.00   0.00   0.67        0.25   0.25   0.26   0.00   0.00   0.75       0.67   0.05    0.04    0.75
Sub-Total                    1.89   1.78   0.67   0.00   0.00   4.35      2.07   1.96   0.77   0.00   0.00   4.82        4.29    0.29    0.24   4.82       _
B. Road Maint.Eqpt. for SLRA                                                                                                                                   0
Equipment & Tools           2.78   2.78   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.57      3.08  3.13   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.21         5.57    0.15    0.50   6.21       -
Spares                      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Vehicles                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
. ......  ........... ..
Sub-Total                    2.78   2.78   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.57      3.08   3.13  0.00   0.00   0.00   6.21         5.57    0.15    0.50   6.21
C. SLRA Office & Logistics
Bldg. Constn./Rehab. and    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Furniture & Office Eqpt     1.52   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.52      1.70   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.70        1.43    0.15    0.12    1.70
.   . ------ -- . ---- ------ .. ...
Sub-Total                    1.52   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.52       1.70   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.70       1.43    0.15    0.12    1.70
0. Training
SLRA staff trng(IPAM)UNDP   0.05   0.05   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10       0.06   0.06  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.11        0.05    0.06    0.00   0.11
SLRA staff trno FBC(0NDP)  0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02  0.00   0.09         0.03   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.00   0.11       0.05    0.06    0.00    0.11
Tower H.School Reh&b.UNDP   0.07   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.14      0.07   0.07  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15         0.15    0.00    0.00    0.15
Grafton Field Trng.(UUDP)   0.05   0.05   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.18       0.05   0.05   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.20       0.20    0.00    0.00    0.20
Directorate Courses (ADS)   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02  0.00   0.10        0.03   0.03  0.03   0.03   0.00   0.11        0.09    0.02    0.00    0.11
Overseas Region.Cours(ADS   0.07   0.07  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15        0.08   0.08  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.16        0.14    0.02    0.00   0.16
other Unidentified (IDA)    0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.00   0.19       0.05   0.05   0.05   0.06   0.00   0.21       0.19    0.02    0.00   0.21
.   .. ------ . -- ..... .. ------ -
Sub-Total                    0.33   0.33   0.12   0.12   0.03   0.93      0.36   0.37  0.14   0.15   0.03   1.07         0.88    0.18    0.01    1.07
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS              6.53   4.89   0.80   0.12   0.03  12.37       7.21   5.48   0.92   0.15   0.03  13.80      12.16    0.76    0.87   13.80   b
Total                            6.53   4.89   0.80   0.12   0.03  12.37       7.21   5.48   0.92   0.15   0.03  13.80      12.16    0.76    0.87   13.80      X
3 3  3  3  3  3 3  3  3  3  3  3 3   3 3   3 3 333- - --     3-------  , ---------------------g--3   - ------------          33
- Values sealed bv 1000000.0  10/8/1992  1:46                                                                                                                 O 
-4



SIERRA LEONE
Road Rehabilitation awd aintenance Project
Teble 3. Support to Department Works
Detailed Coat Table
Leew
Totaels Including Contingencies    tre kdoum of Totals Incl.Cont.
la"- Costs in US                   USS                               USS                                  Paramters
mususuu~a                                                                   M==gsuuu.8 .uUn.3,aUi umu   auuuuuuuzuuuuuuuu
92-94 94-97 Total   1992/93 1993/94 1994-97  Total    F.Exch  Local  Taxes  Total   Phy. Cant. For. Exch. Gros Tax Sun. Acnt.
1. INVESTMT COSTS
A. Office Equip & Facilities   0.13  0.00 0.27        0.15   0.15    0.00   0.30        0.26    0.00   0.01    0.30           0.10       0.9O       0.05 SPUW
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            0.13 0.00 0.27         0.15   0.15   0.00   0.30         0.28    0.00   0.01    0.30
-  m    -        -               -         -s- _a           -    3uu *-_ 
Total                          0.13  0.00 0.27        0.15   0.15   0.00   0.30         0.28   0.00   0.01    0.30
- Values scaled by 1000000.0 10/8/1992 1:45
Oao
0 1
OP
5 



SIERRA LEONE
Road RehabilItation a_d Nintennc Project
TAble 4. S&ort to Tranport Sctor
Detailed Cost Tablo
Learw
Totats Including Contingencis     Breakdowi of Totals Incl.Cont.
Ss Costs In U                        USt                                USt
92-94 94-96 96197 Total   92/93 93/94 94/95 95196 96/9r Total    F.Exch  Local  Tae   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Sup.to Tns.Sector Irnti.
Sector & Fees. Studies    0.12 0.06  0.00 0.39    0.13 0.13 0.09 0.09 0.00 O.           0.39   0.03   0.02   0.44
Training                 0.02 0.02 0.00 0.06    0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.00 0.07            0.06   0.00   0.00   0.07
Office Equipmnt          0.01 0.01 0.00 0.05    0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.06            0.05   0.00   0.00   0.06
Su-Total                  0.15 0.11 0.00 0.51    0.16 0.16 0.12 0.13 0.00 0.57            0.51   0.04   0.03   0.57
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           0.15 0.11 0.00 0.51    0.16 0.16 0.12 0.13 0.00 0.57            0.51   0.04   0.03   0.57
Total                         0.15 0.11 0.00 0.51    0.16 0.16 0.12 0.13 0.00 0.57            0.51   0.04   0.03   0.57
- Valus saled by 1000000.0  10/4/1992  1:47
0
x
LR
0I 
0 



SIERRA LEONE
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table 5. Pilot Program for Promotion of Non-Notor Transport
DetaIled Cost Table
Leone
Totals Including Contingencies      Breakdown of Totals IncltCont.
Base Costs In USS                          USS                                 USS
92-94 94/95 95/96 96/n  Total   92/93 9319 94/f 95/96 96/97 Total        F.Exch   Local   Tases   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Pltot Prog.for NNT
NET Vehitles/Equ ipmnt 0.17  0.12  0.12  0.00  0.59      0.19  0.19  0.14  0.15  0.00  0.67       0.59    0.07    0.01    0.67
Studies/Tec.Assistance  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.00  0.07     0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.00  0.06       0.07    0.01    0.00    0.05
Assistance to lGOs      0.02  0.02  0.00 0.00 0.06       0.02  0.02  0.02  0.00 0.00 0.07         0.06   0.01    0.00    0.07
sub-Total                0.21  0.16  0.14  0.00 0.71      0.23  0.23  0.18 0.17 0.00 0.81          0.71    0.08    0.02    0.81
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          0.21  0.16  0.14  0.00 0.71      0.23  0.23  0.18  0.17 0.00 0.81         0.71    0.08    0.02    0.81
._m ._-- ---  --_..-.. .--     --- --- --- ---- .............................. ..."  --,... -   *  --
Total                        0.21  0.16  0.14  0.00 o.r1      0.23  0.23  0.18  0.17 0.00  0.81        0.71    0.08    0.02    0.81
__--_.__.__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                         -      - -   - - - -- - - -- - -  - - - -
Valus saled bv 1000000.0  10/8/1992  1:47
0
0S



SIERRA LEONE
Road Rehabilitation nd Naintenance Project
Table 6. Project Design & Supervision
Detailed Cost Table
Leon
Totals Including Continencfes       Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Base Costs In USS                             USS                                  USS
92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 Total   92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 Total      F.Exch   Local  Taxes   Total
1. IUWSTNEUT COSTS
A. Proj.Design 4 Supsvisimn
Trk.Rdse(fr218i_ loc263m) 0.51  0.90  0.58  0.58  0.00  2.56      0.56  1.00  0.66  0.69  0.00  2.90       2.58    0.18    0.15    2.90
Cty.Sts.(fr.44m,loc54m)  0.23  0.23 0.10  0.10 0.00  0.66    0.25  0.26  0.11  0.12  0.00 0.74             0.66    0.05    0.04    0.74
COD (Loc 60_)              0.04  0.04  0.02 0.02 0.00  0.13    0.05  0.05  0.03 0.03  0.00  0.15           0.13   0.01    0.01    0.15
SLRA Eldg.(loc 40_)        0.00  0.08  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.08    0.00  0.09  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.09        0.08   0.01    0.00    0.09
Pr.Cordntr.(f-18,l-108  ) 0.18 0.18 0.18 0.00  0.00  0.53    0.19 0.20  0.20 0.00 0.00 0.59                0.52   0.04   0.03    0.59
T.A City AdaY(fr 36mclc72) 0.18  0.18  0.18  0.00 0.00  0.53    0.19  0.20  0.20 0.00 0.00 0.59            0.52   0.04   0.03    0.59
Future ProJ.Prep.Studies   0.14  0.15  0.15 0.00  0.00 0.45    0.16  0.17 0.18 0.00  0.00 0.50             0.45    0.03    0.03    0.50
.----                                          . -- 1 75  1.20 0 70 0 00  -  94  1 40  1              -------
T SLdTotaL                  1.28  1.75  1.20 0.70  0.00  4.94      1.40  1.95  1.38 0.83  0.00 5.56         4.94    0.34   0.28    5.56
.     ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- _ _                     ------- ------- -----_-
Total IVSTMENT COSTS               1.28  1.75  1.20 0.70  0.00  4.94      1.40  1.95  1.38  0.83  0.00 5.56        4.94    0.34   0.28    5.56
~~~~~~~~~~~~-                        _-----   -- -   -- -   - - - -    - -   - -   - -   - -   - -      - - - - - - - -
Total                           1.81.75  1.20  0.70  0.00  4.94        1.40  1.95  1.38  0.83  0.00  5.56       4.94    0.34    0.28    5.56
Values scaled by 1000000.0  10/8/1992  1:47
Is 
0 _
_ O



106
Annex 4-11
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summay of Project Costs and Financdng Plan
($m)
Component (a)                TOTAL    IDA       GOSL       AiDB      UNDP   JICA        EC
1. Trunk Road Rehab.                      52.56    27.74     3.94       12.26                       8.62
2. Freetown Roads Rehab.                   8.97     8.40     0.57
3. Contract Maintenance & Support for
Domestic Contractors
i. Civil Works                        7.12     1.65     5.47
ii. Contractor Training               0.61     0.20                 0.26     0.15
iii. Provision of Light Equipment      1.16     0.60     0.05        0.51
iv. Technical Exper (48mm)             0.77                                   0.77
v. UN Voluteers (96mm)                0.19                                   0.19
vi. Local Consulants (144mm)           0.35                                   0.35
4. Technical Assistance to SLRA
i. Chief Technical Advisor (CTA)      0.75                                  0.75
ii. Road Planning Dev. Expert         0.49                                   0.49
iii. Roads Maintnance Expert           0.49
iv. Financial and Accounting Expert    0.49                                                     0.49
v. Manpower Development Expert         0.49                                                    0.49
vi. Construction Industry Specialist   0.12                                   0.12              0.49
vii. Mechanical Eng./Equipment Exp.     0.75                                   0.75
viii. MIS Specialist                    0.48                                   0.48
ix. Project Coordinator                0.75     0.75
5. SLRA Office and Logistics               1.70     0.40     0.04                 0.26              1.00
6. Road Maintennce and Equipment (SLRA)    6.21              0.40                 0.81    5.00
7. Training SLRA
i. Local Staff IPAM Coures            0.11                                   0.11
ii. Local Staff FBC Cours e            0.11                                   0.11
iu. Local Tower Hill Training Sch. Reh.  0.15                                 0.15
iv. Local Grafton Filed Trining Center  0.20                                  0.20
v. Overas Courses for the Directorte   0.11                          0.11
vi. Regional Courses (Div. Heads)      0.16                          0.16
vii. Other Courses (to be identified)  0.21     0.21
8. Support to Dept. of Works               0.30     0.30
9. Support to Transport Sector             0.57     0.51     0.06
10. Pilot Program for NMT                   0.81     0.74     0.07
11. Project Design and Supervision          5.56     3.50     0.25        1.05                       0.76
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         92.74    45.00    10.85       14.35     5.69   5.00      11.85
(a) Includa price and physical oontingencies
IDA   -  Intenational Development Agency
GOSL -  Government of Sierr Leone
AiDB -  African Development Bank
UNDP -  United Nations Development Progmme
JICA  -  Japan International Coopertion Agency
EC    -  European Community



Annex 412
107
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Budget Estimates and Local Funding Needs for the Road Sector, 1993 - 1997
(in US$ milion equivalent)
laacid Year July-Jun
Pundixg Requiement                                    1992-93      1993-94      1994-95      1995-96     1996-97
* RRMP Project Counterpart Fundsr'                        0.4          2.8         2.9            2.9        1.S
* Additional Rehabilitation/Periodic Maintenance by       0.6           1.2         1.3           1.9       2.0
Mobile Unitbs.
* Additional Development Budget F                         0.0          0.4         0.6            0.7       0.8
* Additional Periodic Maintenanoe by Contractors 1'       0.3          0.6         0.7            1.0        1.5
* Additional Routine Maintenance F                        0.2           0.8        0.9            1.0        1.4
* Feeder Roads Maintenance (Periodic & Routine) F         0.3          0.8          1.5           1.8       2.5
* Recurrent Costs for Operating SLRA (Staff &
Overheads) 2                                               1.4          2.2         2.4           2.5        2.6
TOTAL LOCAL FUNDS/BUDGET NEEDED                       3.2          8.8        10.2          11.9       12.5
Funding Sources
* PL480 Counterpart Funds (USAID)                         0.6           1.5         1.5           1.5        1.5
* Road Fund!                                              2.5           5.0         5.2           5.5        6.0
* Topping-up from Budget (includes recurrent and dev.     0.1          2.3          3.5           4.9        5.0
budget)
TOTAL FUNDS                                           3.2          8.8        10.2          11.9       12.5
Notes:
1'  Based on Project Financing Plan, figures assume that there will be co-financing for the ful project. 1996 figures do not include
new projects that may be started by then. The figures are in current prices, assuming local and foreign inflation rates and
exchange rate variations as discussed in parn 4.18.
1   Assumptions: 15 km/paved and 30 km/gravel in 93-94 & 94-95; and 45 km gravel in following years. Unit costs (direct):
US$50,000 per km/paved and US$15,000 per km/gravelled.
'  It includes local costs of compensation payment for land under Waterloo - Masiaka Road, and other projects (such as the city
project).
F Assuming gradual building up of capacity: Mostly through private sector contractors under SLRA supervision.
F   Assuming gradual building up of capacity.
F   Includes counterpart funds for Agricultural Sector Services Project (ASSP). Funds will be allocated to the Feeder Roads
Department under SLRA.
1  Based on estimates in UNDP expert's report (Consultnt Services for the Establishment of a Roads Authority, October 1991). For
1992-93, includes DOW road department's cost as SLRA was started late in the year.
F   This level of funding corresponds to a road user fee of US$.20 cents per imperial gallon during 1993-94, with assumed future
increases due to increaed consumption.
GenermLNotes: The full annual maintenance requirements could be met only after yar 4000 after the full 7-year prom  for clearing
alclws, a noted in Ann4-1; estimated annual cost for fi maintenance: US$20 million (see Annex 3- . The tabTe above uruma
restoring capacity and tn     tor meeting about half of the mintenance needs by 1996.
Source: DOW/IDA, September 1992



Me"d inhbsULtatles G Minaltesrnmn Project
CaIAebdmw Tear
Roard Famdovealti11al  zt SR
Audit PA Fund for period Gi90-12/91 
KLA& to be opzertiomal 
Appoint Dept. Heads & Fin. Advisor 
Appoint nstaraal Auditoirs 
Apposint Iuperviaion coasuitant                            
Confizm c.-PLn. Arrangments for T.A.                    x    xx
Appoint Proj. Coord. & gle. Rogr.                          
Revinew Local funding for 19U3-N7
Roads Pzogram                                                                                          xxIxX1
Annual re,isw of tranap. seator jouest                                                                                                                                        -    xxxx    
Qsiartarly Rsort                                                                                                                                                              0                                    
Uix-glcutby Work Varfication Audit                                                   I                                            xIxx0
Rd.9ser Fund Agreement (IDL/Owrt/SLRA) 
m.k   ood Ruaiitto
InLte bids for lCD (Lots I & 2) 
Award Lots 1 & 2 
Coostzuatioa Lot. I A 2                                                                     K          xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxzxx                                
invite bids for COD (ICR) 
Awards CRC Lots (ICR) 
Coastruotioa COD Laot  (ICR)                                                 Kxxxxxx xxxxxx                                 xxxxxx xxx
Invite bids for CUD (IcR)                                                                                                            
Awards CMC Late (ICB)                                                                                               K                         
ComatzvtLotiCa     Lots (LCD)                                                Kxxxxxx xxxxxx                                 xxxxxx xxxxxx
Appoint ?.A.                                                    
TrainLng of contractor.                                                        XXXXXI                                      
Proaure Light XquipmantI                                                        
60% Maintenance by' contraat 
xppoint remaining T.A. (DC)                                                                                                                                                 0  :
Appoint remaining T.A. (UtDP)                                                                                                                                               ( x  CD
Nc and ~uDp ceinmiatment for T.1.                                                                                                                                              x >
Appointomet suviroomsntal zigineer                       x4
0I
GRL  ffice Rauilin
Award contract
ConstructLionI                                                                     I
tjjAs omp         IPAPjjsTovD   3WIJ4-SO14



109
Annex 4-13
Page 2 of 2
a           Mt
VF V1*              
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
aUa
NM.W
.  e
iii I.I
Ii~~~~m
r4~ ~ m
;  _ T         ^ ^   *    " I  i  * 
a~ ~~ -u                       a  i
Iii   ii          i!iJIII  III' akii
eb    Z     Z mm 
_ 21
ew i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



Siorra Loose
So"  Rehabilitation G Rejtmmasao  Projeat
Details of Proocremst Arraummmats
(US s Nllios Sqi-valumt)
Flmal Toar
_1992/93                   1 1 3/94                1 ..X.                 IlS/93   ..  1995/97    1997/91  OXf
Proc!!   X1_mmt             JA_ _O_ _D J| F|i| 1NJ| J| A| sl _ D _J-    - ANJI so Bl i    Al )1 _ Al| B|i D{J  8vIJ          J|A SOXJ[llAl IJ   J|A|$| s          P'AITKIZ   REMARKS
Award (Lota 1 & 2);;                                                l    l|||1L                               2]IIIIIIIIIIL            
CoStrn ction (Lot 1)                                                                                                                                            3.9  (D x1 Lt)
Conptruction   Lot 2)                                                                                                                                         11.1  (lCD 1 Lot)
Award (Lots 3)       )x2,                                                            .                      .                       .
Construction (Lot 3)                                              1           X X|                                       XXXXXXXXXXX                |           9.7  (ICa 1 Lot)
Conatruction (Lot  1 CBD                                                 XXXXXXXXXXXX|   XXXXX X|X|X|X|X|X|  1X|X  XICB  I Lot)
Award (Lo  3X    0 ;                                                   1.          3.X                     3.XXqiqa1xJ l (oixli7  3.*(!ixxea        :uit2       C   Lt
Construction                                           XXXXXX  XX  X||XXX||XXX|| 3|   X||XX|||XX||XX   X|XX|XX|XX|XX|XX|X  X|X|X|X|X|X| 2xxxx                   95  LICB  I Lot)
Srtn Streets MIDA)                                            -X
DLd (ICDFLots I& 2)                          X           I                                                                                                                                        -
Awards (lCD Lot. 1 & 2)                             xxC
0.0              0.1 0o                                                             0!
ConstructLon (Lot 1, CXD XXXDXX|X|X  XXXXXXXXXXXX  X| XXXXXXXXXX    XXXX|XXXXXXX    XXXXXX     30  *B (
ConstructLon (Lot 2)                                              XX           XXXXXXXXXXXX                                   XXXXXXXXX                          .         C    Lt2
Did (LCIB)                                  I                                                                       I 
Awards                                                I 
ConstruactLonXXXXXXXXXXXX                                                                          XXXXXXXXX                        XX     XX      XXXX 2SL                   (Los
Saint. by Contrat
Trunk ftoads (IDA)                                               xx            xxxxxx                  XXXXX                  XXXXX            XXX        XX 23LB(Los
Trunk Rtoads, GOSL/OtherXXXX                                       XXXXXXXXX                       XXXXXXXXXXX                              XXXX          XX 23WD.P
_         < - ~~~~~~~ -    ~~~~   ~~  2   n A   l  0 ~~~~~~~~0. 1                     0. ]                   0. " =  =           .4   3j|j ;
Trunk Roads, GOSL, LCDBXXXXXX                                                                          XXXXXXXXXXXX                                   XXX 2S(CB
Award                                                                              I
Construction                                                                xxxxxx                                                                              1.7  (M.D.?. 1.31
(LCD 0.4)
Sub-Totals 69.4
oI
haitsONDIIFNI'lmli   JAIJOINIIJIFDO ii_JJ1Sl0jlDlJjj14    il JASCISDlillloAlil llisleElplrlmllmlitliMmol-.



sierra Loome
noe  Ue&alitatim  a Najataca        , Project
Detail  of P Pro mmete Arraagta
(l $ ElIUm EqeLvaleat)
"goaal year
1992/93      _        1993/94      _        1994/95       _       1995/96               1996/*7       _   997 99         DA
off. equip. I Supplies)0.5)
oad Rohab. DOW, DSC, MC (IDA)                            x xxxxxx lx  xxxxxxxxl    x xxxxxxx                                      1                           1.9  shop z 5)
Road Rehab &  alt. (Co-Fn)                          !1XXXl|                              C  I   xxlx xxxxxx xlxrxtxIxxxIxxx  x l   M   ll 1          l   l     6.7  (11 11 )
TOTCAL ASSIST1C.                                               15.                    1.0                 23.                    2
Proj. Prep. & Inpleamm. (IDA)                           xxxxxx                   xx       xxx          xxxxxx                  xx                             4.7  other
Proj. Prep. S lepimo. (Co-Pin)                           xxxxxx                  x    xxxx             xxxxxx                  xx                             2.0  3.B.7.
Studisj  (IDA)                                    O            5                    1                     11.4                   10.10.9  Other
KeyslICB    - Itrnattio         Cetitie Bidding
LC     - LalCetitie Diddn
3.3.7. - Xot 3.k/DA   Finaced
*    inclde  a aiz-intb lag in diebreeat, starting 1993/94.
0A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 1.  I.2. 
0( 0
Trinng (C -Fn).    ..    ..      ..    X VX.V    . . . . . . . .  .XX..X)    xx xx X   XX..XX..XX..XX.X..XX..XX.   XX..  XllXXl  12  .Fr
TOTALS  l.s     is.es                 25.8S                 23.2                  21.5               4.80       92.7~~~~~~~~~1



112                       Ann-x 4-15
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
ROAD RZEABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DISBURSENENT SCHZDULE
(US$ MILLION)
STANDARD
APPRAISAL  STXIMATES                DISBUR. PROFILE
AJNUAL DISBURBENT   CUM. DISBURSNENT    AFRICA REGION
AT ZND QUARTzR         AT END QUARTER       TRANSPORTATION
QUARTER ZNDING                 *    US$                t    Us$                 (%)
FISCAL TEAR 1993
Third Quarter Mar 93             0  0.00                 0  0.00                 0
Fourth Quarter Jun 93            2  0.80                 2   0.8                 3
FISCAL TEAR 1994
First Quarter Sep 93             3  1.35                 5  2.15
Second Quarter Dec 93            3  1.35                 8  3.50                 10
Third Quarter Mar 94             3  1.35                11  4.85
Fourth Quarter Jun 94            3  1.35                14  6.20                 18
FISCAL YEAR 1995
First Quarter Sep 94             6  2.88                20  9.08
Second Quarter Dec 94            6  2.88                27 11.96                 30
Third Quarter Mar 95             6  2.88                33 14.04
Fourth Quarter Jun 95            6  2.88                39 17.72                 42
FISCAL YEaR 1996
First Quarter Sep 95             6  2.85                46 20.57
Second Quarter Dec 95            6  2.85                52 23.42                 54
Third Quarter Mar 96             6  2.85                58 26.27
Fourth Quarter Jun 96            6  2.85                65 29.12                 62
FISCAL TEAR 1997
First Quarter Sep 96             6  2.53                70 31.65
Second Quarter Doc 96            6  2.53                76 34.18                 74
Third Quarter Mar 97             6  2.53                82 36.71
Fourth Quarter Jun 97            6  2.53                87 39.24                 82
FISCAL TZAR 1993
First Quarter Sep 97             3  1.44                90 40.68
Second Quarter Dec 97            3  1.44                94 42.12                 86
Third Quarter Mar 98             3  1.44                97 43.56
Fourth Quarter Jun 98            3  1.44               100 45.00                 94
FISCAL TYAR 1999                 -      -                -      -
First Quarter Sep 98             -      -                -      -
Second Quarter Dec 98            -      -                -      -                98
Third Quarter Mar 99             -      -                -      -
Fourth Quarter Jun 99            -      -                -      -               100



, o
sOewps3 uvS   +3 (eouv) 4iodsujL ......
IgAoJddV :.peJ3 woj:j sJ@rnno
OC   8Z   9Z   tZ   ZZ   OZ   8L   9L   bL   ZL   OL   8    9    t    Z    0
09
. .0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0
,'Ip'J3 10 %)
euo1 ; BJJBIS
lieLq3 juawasinqsir3
ifOJd a3ueueju!eI/W -q uojjj!ej   peoU
.............................................................. ...............w\\ .,, M.    0



114
Annex 4-16
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
EnvWronmental Impact Analysis
1.    The project provides for the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, the alignments of
which will not change. Rehabilitation of existing roads has limited environmental impacts
compared to the impacts of new roads construction. Notwithstanding this, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, and maintenance operations do have the potential to cause occasional harm to
the natural or social environment. These impacts may include increased soil erosion due to
improper designs of embankments or side drains; scouring of the landscape due to the opening
of borrow pits; destruction of vegetation during clearing operations; creation of local water
logging problems; impacts on soils and vegetation due to road camp establishment and use;
bitumen plant pollution; and disturbance and changes in settlement patterns along the roads,
among others. However, not only are these adverse impacts avoidable, rehabilitation and
maintenance operations offer an opportunity to mitigate impacts the existing road system has
on the environment with little or no additional costs.
2.    The planning and design phase offers perhaps the best opportunity for including cost-
saving mitigation measures. Uniform design procedures, environmentally sound roads
standards and specifications, proper drainage and grading, and temporary and permanent
erosion and sedimentation controls need to be established. Inspection and enforcement of
these standard and procedures is required during the construction phase.
3.    The environmental analysis confirmed that relatively minor environmental impacts
should be expected from the activities anticipated in this project. There are no significant
erosion problems in the major part of the area, although mismanagement of the land resources
is widespread, mainly due to inadequate agricultural practices and bush burning.
4.    The application of simple precautionary practices during road rehabilitation work will
in most cases be adequate. That would include properly constructed drainage and culverts,
strengthening local erosive areas along drainage channels, etc., with concrete or stone
barriers, using gabions where they may be occasionally necessary, reseeding with grasses and
low bushes along the roads and on cuts where natural reseeding may be slow, and tree
planting adjacent to the right-of-way when appropriate. Gravel and borrow pits should be
levelled and reseeded. If the pits are left for water collection for local users, adequate erosion
protection should be done in addition to ensuring that these pits do not become health hazards
(contaminated drinking water, mosquito breeding areas, etc.).
5.    Some of the feeder roads and gravel roads in the project are seriously degraded and
need reconstruction. Most of these roads have deteriorated because of inadequate or non
existent drainage, leading to the roads themselves functioning as drainage channels.
Reconstruction of these roads must contain proper drainage construction and erosion control
measures. The impacts of roads reconstruction will vary from area to area as each has



115
Annex 416
Page 2 of 3
different environmental conditions, particularly with respect to topography and soils structure.
The severity of environmental impacts depends also on the type of rehabilitation work to be
undertaken, such as bituminous resealing, asphalt overlay, or regravelling, and the amount of
clearing associated with this resurfacing.
6.    In most cases, indirect environmental impacts of road rehabilitation works under the
project will probably not occur, since the road alignment and gradients will generally remain
unchanged. Most of the project area is thinly populated and cultivated and significant
secondary negative environmental impacts are unlikely, while socio-economic impacts are
expected to be mostly beneficial. However, there is a need to provide a better control of
people's movements to and along the roads. The Department of Works has in the past been
seeking to align new roads outside population settlements, but the results have been that the
villagers move to the roads for easy transport access, and the roadsides function as market
place for the informal sector. This movement needs better control, both because of the
serious traffic hazards to vehicles, pedestrians and hawkers along these road segments. These
spontaneous settlements also increase environmental pollution and drainage problems. The
new government has already taken steps in the Freetown area to ease this problem by banning
parking and vendors on highly trafficked roads.
7.    The City of Freetown is included under the project with a street and drainage
rehabilitation component. This is highly desirable because of the present situation of almost
total collapse of all municipal city services. Environmentally, Freetown is dilapidated.
Overpopulation of the city has brought havoc on the city's street capacity, drainage system,
waste disposal and treatment, and electricity and communications. The land use on the
surrounding steep hillsides is completely out of control, causing heavy erosion during the
rainy season with rocks and soils being washed down into the city's drainage system, adding
to an already overloaded situation. Green areas are fast disappearing in the metropolitan area.
Garbage and rubbish are ever present and the whole central area functions as a huge
marketplace for the informal sector.
8.    The main institutional responsibility in Sierra Leone for environmental issues as they
relate to this project, rests with the Department of Lands, Housing and Enviromment.
However, the Department was just recently reorganized to include environmental
responsibilities, and is just embarking upon the elaboration of improved legislation and
implementation of an environmental policy. The Department itself admits to facing an uphill
task with inadequate financial support, and lack of professional and technical personnel as
well as central political support. Environmental issues are given only rudimentary attention in
the country at present due to the prevailing economic situation, and none of the existing
institutions, NGOs or local consultant firms, are presently able to provide professional and
regular environmental monitoring services or the regularly needed impact analysis of road
rehabilitation activities within this project.
9.    To secure improved sustainability of the road system, as well as the minimization of
negative environmental and social impacts, the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) should
possess its own in-house environmental division. Such division or unit must be given
adequate financial and technical backing and support along with the development of the other
branches of the Authority. The staff given such responsibilities must be given specialist
training in environmental sciences, technology, and environmental impact assessment



116
Annex 4-16
Page 3 of 3
methodology, not only of direct relevance to the roads and highways sector, but to all aspects
of public works.
10.   To mitigate any adverse environmental impacts of the proposed project, an
environmental analysis of each project road segment should be done at the time of detailed
road works planning. This process should describe in detail any mitigation measures that
should be undertaken.
11.   The final responsibility for the implementation of road specific environmental analysis
lies with the SLRA. As the SLRA has no in-house capabilities at present to conduct
environmental surveys, the assessments will have to be done by consultants working under
terms of reference provided by the SLRA and agreed with the Bank, until it has the necessary
capability to do this work. The consultants would be hired under the framework of the
project.
12.   Supervision and Monitoring. A mid-term review that would include an environmental
impact review would be undertaken and corrective actions would be drawn up as needed.
Regular environmental monitoring of the project will be undertaken by the SLRA.
Source: AF4IN, September 1992



117
Annx 417
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTEVANCE PROJECT
Supervidon Plan and Monitoring of Performance IndYoators
As indicated in paras 2.19 and 2.20 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Sierra
Leone's performance under the two earlier highway projects was poor, especially in regards
to institution building. The new project has been designed to take into account past lesons as
noted in para 2.21. Among other steps, the Government has set up the SLRA, a new
organization staffed with new personnel who will have to be thoroughly trained to aume
their responsibilities as provided for under the project. Given this situation, a substantial IDA
input will be required for field visits to ensure that the project gets off to a good start in line
with the implementation schedule, and to ensure that it stays on schedule. A supervision
program is outlined below, which take into account the regular review of progress reports,
procurement actions, and correspondence. This is estimated at 15-20 staff weels per year for
the life of the project.
Approxinute
Date of Input
(mo/yr)                  Activity                Expeced Skill Required     Staff Weeks
4/93         Project Launch Workshop       Task Manager (Engine)                 10
Insitutional Specialist
Trining Specialist
Pr curemeat Speciist
Disbursanent Speciaist
6/93         Supervision Mission           Tuak Manager (Enginer)                S
Finacial Anayst
Traffic Engineer
9/93         Supervision Mision            Task Maager (Engineer)                 5
Transport Eoonomist
Tmaining Speclist
Sociologist
1/94         Supervision Mision            Task Manager (Engineer)               S
Training Specialist
Municipal Engineer
Environmental Specialist
5/94         Supervision Mission           Task Manager (Engineer)                4
Transport Economist
10/94         Supervision Mission          Task Manger (Engineer)                 5
Training Specilit
Municipal Engineer
2/95         Superviion Mision             Task Manager (Engineer)                3
Trnsport Economist



118
Annex 417
Page 2 of 3
Approxnte
DaWt of Input
(mo/yr)                  Atvity                  Expecd Sill Required        Staff Weds
6/95         Supervision Mission            Task Manager (Enginer)                10
Mid-term Review               Training Spocia
Municipal Engineer
Inaitutional Specialist
Sociologist
Environmental Specialist
10/95         Supervision Mion              Task Manager (Engineer)                4
Trunsport Economist
Sociologist
2/96         Supervision Mision             Task Manager (Engner)                  5
Trining Specilist
Municipal Enginer
6/96         Supervision Mision             Task Managr (Engineer)                 4
Trnsport Economist
10/96         Supervision Mision            Task Manger (Engineer)                 5
Traiing Specialist
Municipal Engineer
2/97         Supervision Mission            Task Manager (Engine)                  4
Trnsport Economist
6/97         Supervision Mission            Tuk Manger (Enge)                      3
Sociologist
12/97         Supervision Mission           Task Manager (Engineer)                2
(PCR)
Sourcc A4IN, September 1992



Sierra Loom,
Road Rehabilitation a maintenance Projact
Tentative Indiaators For Monitoring Parforma!
Cuumulatlve
At    Jun      Jun      Jun     Jun     Ju  At Projact
Monitorable Items                        Units Start   94        95       96      97      96  Comzlation
EngiLnering designs + bid documents completed                  6      30      100                                          100
Designs reviewed/safety audited                                I       10     100                                          100
Trunk Road Civil Works Contracts awarded                      km        0     157      325     493                        493
City Roads Civil Works awarded                                km        0      15       10      20                          20
Local Capacity to administer major contract. independently   6        20       S0       s0     100                         100
Share of road network in good condition                        I       10      20       30      40      45      50         50
Share of road network in falr condition                        6      20       25       30      30      30      30         30
Ms. under oontract maintenance                                km        0     700    1,400   2,100   2,800   2,800      2,800
Share of Maintenance by Contracts
- Periodic Maintenanc                                        6       0       20       40      50      70      70         70
- Routine (Labor based)                                      I       0       20       30      50      70      90         90
- Routlne (Machine baed)                                     6       0       10       20      35      50      50         50
- Pothol- Patching                                           6       0       10       20      20      20      20         20
Labor/light equlpmnt based contractors trained                no      20       50       75     100                         100
single man contractors employed                               no       0       50      200     400     600     600         600
Dld docuet completed                                          S-        0     4.3      8.6                                 8.6
Contract awarded                                              S         0     4.3      6.6                                 6.6
V.hiclea/Zquip mnt/Supplies/spmreo purch-sed                  S-        0     2 0      4 3     8 6                         8 6
I       1 I
Staffing of SLRA                                              no       10   1,000    1,400                               1,400
Local staff trained (d omestlc)                               _         0      20       40      45      S0      55          55
Local staff trained (overseas)                                _         0      10       20      30      40      45          45
Local capacity to effectively suprvise maintenance             6        0      20       50      s0     100     100         100
Local capacity to administer maintenance oontract.             6       0       20       50      80     100     100         100
Quarterly progrmss Reports                                    no        0       5        9      13      17      21          21
Disbursement target. achieved (cumnulative)                  $S         0     6.2    17.7   29.1    39.2    45.0          45.0
Counterpnrt fund targots achieved (cumaulative equivalent)  $S          0     1 5      4 3     7 1     9.5    10 9        10 9
Road Fund allocation (cummulative equivalent)                 $IM       0     7.5    12.7    18.2    24.2    30.7         30.7
PL 480 Counterpart Funds (cu-ulative equivalent)             $S         0     2.1      3.6     5.1     6.6     8.1         8.1        ^ :
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X
x
No. of Unite of bicycles and trailers in use                 unit       0     300      900   1,500   2,000   2,500       2,500          4P'
No. of trailers produced locally                             Unit       0     100      600   1,200   1,700   2,200       2,200        0 1



120                           Anex 5-1
Page 1 of 13
SIERRA LEONE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
General
1.    From an economic point of view, the main objectives of the physical components of
RRMP's road improvement program are to increase the road transport capacity, reduce
transport costs and protect past investments in the highway network. The purpose of the
economic analyses is to determine the appropriate design, timing and works to be undertaken
on each road section. A priority list of the trunk road network in Sierra Leone was first
identified by Consultants (Berger International Inc.) in 1988 which formed the basis of the
Government's seven year road rehabilitation program.l/ The economic analysis described
below, is an update of the original analysis using current data on traffic, road condition and
unit costs.
Methodology
2.    The World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III) was used for
evaluation of alternative investments on each of the road sections in Phase 1 of the seven year
program. The model essentially simulates the total life cycle conditions and costs on each
road section to provide the economic decision criteria for multiple road maintenance and
rehabilitation alternatives.
3.    Benefits were evaluated on a 'with and without investment' basis, derived essentially
from savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC), but including the impact of variations in the
costs of road maintenance and benefits to any generated or diverted traffic computed on the
basis of the consumer surplus, taken as half the unit VOC reduction times the generated
traffic. Evaluation was based on the net present value (NPV) of all costs and benefits and the
economic rates of return (ERR) of the proposed works.
4.    Alternatives for determining the extent of works ranged from minimal routine
maintenance on the existing roads to resurfacing and complete reconstruction of the road
pavement. However, data on the existing condition of the roads showed all roads under
consideration to be in poor or very poor condition with surface roughness values in excess of
IRI 8.5. Hence alternatives involving only the resurfacing options such as, resealing,
overlaying and regravelling without rehabilitation and strengthening of the base and road
formation, were technically ruled out. The economic rate of return was computed separately
I/ LBI Inc., Survey of the Classified Road Network and Important Feeder Roads, Final
Report, November, 1988.



121
Annex S-1
Page 2 of 13
for each road section which was then selected for implementation only if its economic rate of
return was at least 15%.
Basic Data
5.    Tables 1 through 4 give, respectively, a summary of representative data on the road
link characteristics, unit maintenance costs, vehicle fleet characteristics and unit costs, and the
maintenance alternatives evaluated. For more details on inputs to the HDM model, see
working document No. 7 on file.
6.    Costs were considered both in financial and economic terms (after adjusting for taxes,
duties and subsidies, etc.). Due to the highly deteriorated condition of the roads in many
cases, traffic has drastically reduced or else diverted to longer but more passable routes. To
allow for the expected restoration of higher traffic volumes after rehabilitation, generated
traffic is assumed to be of the order of 30% on paved and 50% on the low volume unpaved
roads, with the exception of the Yengema-Sefadu road where the traffic volume is already
2,500 vpd. Estimates of future normal traffic growth in Sierra Leone range from 3% to 5%
per annum; the lower value of 3% per annum has been used in the present analysis.
Sensitivity analysis shows that each road investment under the project would yield over 15%
ERR, even if no generated traffic was assumed (para 9).
7.    In the case of rehabilitation of city streets in Freetown, it was necessary to assume
additional benefits arising from congestion relief, fewer stop and go operations, and lesser
idling of vehicles - phenomena that are not modelled by the HDM. For this purpose, a 20%
increase in vehicle operating cost savings was assumed.
Results
8.    Table 5 shows average vehicle operating costs for different vehicle types obtained on
paved and unpaved roads in flat to rolling terrain with surface condition varying from good to
very poor. As seen from the table, the weighted average savings in VOC, resulting from
road rehabilitation and improvement, range from about US cents 3 to 15 on paved roads and
US cents 5 to 20 on unpaved roads depending on the initial condition of the road.
9.    Table 6 shows a summary of the ERRs for the proposed maintenance works on each
of the road sections included in the project (Phase I of Government's seven year road
maintenance and rehabilitation program). The ERR varies from 18% to 80% on the selected
trunk road sections. The ERR for the CBD/city streets is relatively very high (98%) due to
the high traffic volumes and the current dilapidated condition of the streets. The weighted
average ERR for the trunk roads and city streets components, which together account for 71%
of total costs, is 38%. A sensitivity analysis of the ERR was made by increasing the
investment costs by 10% and also by decreasing the expected benefits by 10%. The effect was
to reduce the overall ERR to 35% and 34% respectively. A sensitivity analysis for the
assumption regarding generated traffic was conducted. Benefits from generated traffic amount
to 15% on paved and 25% on unpaved roads; analysis shows that even at 15% less benefits
on paved and 25% less benefits on unpaved roads, individual ERR's remain above 15%, and
weighted overall ERR for the roads component about 33%.



122
Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 13
10.   The road maintenance by contract and road maintenance equipment sub-components of
the project; costing US$14.3 million including design and supervision costs (or 16% of total
project cost) will enable the SLRA carry out needed routine and periodic maintenance of the
trunk and city roads, including spot improvements in critical sections. This activity is
expected to yield returns at least as high as those for rehabilitation of paved roads (27%) and
gravel roads (41%) (usually much higher returns are obtained from maintenance investments).
Hence, a conservative estimate is the average of 27 and 41%, or 34%, which gives overall
weighted average ERR for the roads component as 34% (Table 7). The benefits for the
remaining project components (amounting to 13% of total costs) consisting of technical
assistance, training, studies and logistical support are high but non-quantifiable. Excluding
benefits from these components but including their costs, the composite weighted average
ERR for the project is 30%, reducing to 27% if costs are increased by 10% or benefits
decreased by 10% (see Table 7).
11.   Tables 8 through 10 show some typical outputs from the HDM with respect to the
stream of economic costs and benefits. For example, Tables 8 and 9 give, for the case of the
Taimna-Bo road, the stream of economic costs associated with the base case (TIBO-ALOO)
and the rehabilitation alternative (TIBO-ALOI), respectively, while Table 10 gives the
comparison of the two alternatives. For further details on the HDM outputs, see Working
Document No. 8 in project file.



TABLE 1
Road Link Characteristics
Road Name             Link    Length   Surface   Class    ADT    Surface   Rough   Rainfall   Altitude    R+P       Curv.      Subgr.     SN       Gravl
ID      (km)      Type             (vpd)    Cond.    IRI      (m/mo)       (m)     (mikm)   (olkm)    CBR(%)                (mm)
PAVED ROADS
1. Taiama-Bo                TIBO      51.6      ST        1     400        VP       11.0   0.125       500        30        50          10       1.48
2. Bo-Blama                 BOBL      49.3      ST        I     540         P        9.5   0.125        500       30        50          10       1.48
3. Blama-Kenema             BLKE       19.7     ST        I     800         p        9.5   0.125        200       20        25          10       1.48
4. Lunsar-Makeni           LUMA       62.1      ST        1     400        VP       11.0   0.125        200       20        25           8       1.48
5. Makeni-Matotoka         MAMA       36.4      ST        1     370        VP       11.0   0.100        500       30        50          10       1.48
6. Matotoka-Yengema        MAYE    112.3        ST        I     370        VP       11.0   0.100       1000       50        75          10       1.48
7. Yengema-Sefadu           YESE       6.7      ST        1    2500         P        8.5   0.100       1000       50        75           8       1.48
8. Wellington-Waterloo     WEWA       19.0      ST        1    1180         P        9.5   0.125       200        20        25          10       1.48
GRAVEL ROADS
3. Mile 91-Robol Jet.       MIRO      52.0      GR              190        VP       15.0   0.125        200       20        25                             45
4. Penlap-Sendegu Jct.      PESE      32.0      GR               62        VP       15.0   0.100        500       30        50                             45
5. SendeguJct.-Kamakwie     SEKA      52.0      GR               60        VP       15.0   0.125        500       30        50                             45
Material Characteristics       Gravel         Subgrade
D. Max. (mm)                            30.0               6.5
Passing 2.00 mm                         42.0               88.0
Passing .425 mm                         30.0               60.0
Passing .075 mm                         20.0              25.0
Plasticity Index                        14.0               18.0
Min. Roughness (IRI)                     3.8                3.8
Max. Roughness (IRI)                    19.0               23.0
m m
(DCX
x
Ln
0I1
o-~I-
U,



124
Annex 5-1
Page 5 of 13
TABLE 2
Unit Maintenance Costs
Cost/Unit ($)      Cost/km($)
Maintenance Operation        Unit   Finan.   Econ.   Finan.    Econ.
PAVED ROADS
Patching                      m2      14.30    13.44
Single surface treatment      m2       1.99    1.97    14,500    14,360
Double surface tratment       m2       3.89    3.85    28,400    28,120
Asphalt Overlay (40 mm)       In2     11.00    10.45    80,300    79,500
Rehabilitation w/DST (a)     in2      20.55    20.34   150,000   148,500
Rehabilitation w/AC (a)       M2      30.88    28.05   225,400   204,800
Basic routine maintenance    km/yr  200.00   156.00
GRAVEL ROADS
Spot Regravelling             M2      13.50    10.53
Grading                       km    190.00   188.10
Surface regravelling (150 mm)  m3     14.28    14.14    15,000    14,850
Rehabilitation                m 2      5.71    5.66    40,000    39,600
Basic routine maintenance    km/yr   175.00   136.50
(a)  Lower unit costs (by about 35%) are used on roads with stronger existing pavements
requiring thinner additional base course.



125
Annex 5-1
Page 6 of 13
TABLE 3
Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Unit Costs
ITEM                     CARS            PICKUPS          BUSES             TRUCKS
Vehicle Characteristics
Typical Model                   Isuzu Aska (2800cc)   Isuzu TFR    Isuzu BE (30 pass)   Bedford (TJ1090)
Brazil Equivalent                       1                4               5                  7
GVW (t)                                1.3             2.45             6.0                11.4
Avg. Payload (t)                       0.3              1.0             2.5                7.5
Metric HP                              68               60               72                73
HP Drive                               38               35               50                51
HP Brake                               21               49               84                196
No. of Tires                            4                4               6                  6
Frontal Area (m2)                     2.31             2.72             5.18               4.88
Calibrated RPM                        2,550            2,250           1,500              1,200
Fuel Type                             petrol           petrol          diesel             diesel
ESA Factor                              -              0.02             0.09               3.11
Annual kns driven                     12,000          75,000           90,000             90,000
Annual hrs driven                      250             2,000           2,400              2,500
Avg. Service Life (yrs)                10                8               7                  7
Percent Distribution
Paved                               37               31              19                 13
Gravel                              29               35              17                 19
Unit Costs ($)
New Vehicle                            Fin               24,000             19,300             54,740
Econ               16,000            15,500             41,140
Tire                                   Fin                 64.0              130.0              270.0
Econ                 50.6             102.7              213.3
Maint. Labor/hr                        Fin                0.567              0.567              0.567
Econ                0.522             0.522              0.522
Crew Cost/hr                           Fin                    -              0.510              0.510
Econ                    -             0.470              0.470
Overhead (%)                                                 20                20                  20
Interest (%)                                                 1S                 15                 15
Fuel Cost/Litre                        Fin           Petrol:0.482      Diesel:0.477         Oil: 3.012
Econ          Petrol:0.289      Diesel:0.284          Oil: 2.259
Note: At the time of data collection (Nov. 1991) the exchange rate was US$1.00   L 410.



12'
Annex 5-1
Page 7 of 13
TABLE 4
Maintenance Alternatives
PAVED ROADS:
ALOO         Base alternative, without improvements but comprising of patching
100% of potholes, to a maximum of 50 m2/km/yr and basic routine
maintenance.
ALOI         Pavement rehabilitation with double surface treatment (DST) over
crushed stone base course and including patching of 100% of
potholes, resealing with single surface treatment (SST) when damaged
area exceeds 30%, and basic routine maintenance.
AL02         Pavement rehabilitation with hot rolled asphalt concrete surfacing over
crushed stone base course and including patching of 100% of
potholes, periodic overlays (40mm) whenever roughness exceeds
IRI4.5, and basic routine maintenance.
UNPAVED ROADS:
AL0O         Base alternative, without improvements but comprising of grading
once a year, spot regravelling up to 20 m3/km/yr, and basic routine
maintenance.
ALOI         Regravelling with 150mm of good quality laterite mechanically
compacted and including minor rehabilitation comprising reshaping of
existing formation and minor drainage works. Other activities include
grading after every 15,000 vehicle passes, spot regravelling up to 30
m3/km/yr, regravelling whenever the thickness falls below 50mm and
basic routine maintenance.
AL02         Same as above but including major rehabilitation works including
raising of the road bed in selected areas and extensive drainage
rehabilitation.



127
Annex 5-1
Page 8 of 13
TABLE 5
Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings in Sierra Leone
(US cents/km in Economic Costs)
A. PAVED ROADS
Weighted
Item             Car      Pick-up     Bus       Truck      Average
VOC
Good (IRI 2.7)            38.1      16.1       22.0        46.1        29.2
Fair (IRI 5.5)            40.1      19.6       22.8        53.8        32.6
Poor (IRI 8.5)            43.6      26.3       24.3        63.3        38.0
V.Poor (IRI 11.5)         48.3      35.2       26.1        72.4        44.5
SAVINGS
Fair to Good               2.0       3.5        0.8         7.7         3.4
Poor to Good               5.5      10.2        2.3        17.2         8.8
V.Poor to Good            10.2      19.1        4.1        26.3        15.3
B. UNPAVED ROADS
Weighted
Item             Car     Pick-up      Bus       Truck      Average
Good (IRI 4.5)            38.8      18.7       23.0        51.7        31.5
Fair (IRI 7.5)            42.2      24.7       24.3        61.3        36.7
Poor (IRI 10.5)           47.1      33.6       26.0        70.7        43.3
V.Poor (IRI 15)           52.5      44.0       28.5        81.3        50.9
SAVINGS
Fair to Good               3.4       6.0        1.3         9.6         5.1
Poor to Good               8.3      14.9        3.0        19.0        11.7
V.Poor to Good            13.7      25.3        5.5        29.6        19.4
Note: At the time of data collection (Nov. 1991) the exchange rate was US$1.00 = L 410.



128
Annex 5-1
Page 9 of 13
TABLE 6
Summary of Economic Evaluation
(Trunk Roads and CBD Streets Rehabilitation Component)
ERR (9)
Road Section           ADT       Length   Econ. Cost       Proposed Works
(1991)     (Ian)    (1992) ($m)                        Basc   +10%        -10%
Case    Costs    Benefc
Paved Roads
1. Taiama-Bo                  400        51.6          6.87      Rehab. w/DST         18      16        16
2. Bo-Blama                   540        49.3          6.56          -ditto-          24      21        22
3. Blama-Kenema               800        19.7          2.62          -ditto-          35      32        34
4. Lunsar-Makeni              400        62.1          5.99          -ditto-          26      25        24
5. Makeni-Matotoka            370        36.4          3.51          -ditto-          24      23        22
6. Matotoka-Yengema           370       112.3         10.95          -ditto-          25      23        22
7. Yengema-Sefadu           2,500         6.7          0.89          -ditto-          80      73        76
8. Wellington-Waterloo      1,180        19.0          2.59          -ditto-          50      46        46
Subtotal                              357.1         39.92                           27      25        25
Gravel Roads
1. Mile 91-Robol Jct.         190        52.0          1.80       Rehabilitation      53      48        50
2. Panlap-Sendegu Jet.         62        32.0          0.48    Regr+ Minor Rehab.    24       20        22
3. Sendegu Jct.-Kamakwie       60        52.0          0.77          -ditto-          23       19       20
Subtotal                              136.0          3.05                          41       36        38
CBD/CitO Streets          4-7,000        20.0          6.92    Rehab. wIAC3DST        98      89        87
TOTAL                                 513.1         43.55                           38      35        34



129                               Annex 5-1
Page 10 of 13
TABLE 7
Summary of ERR's and Sensitivity Analysis
ERR%
Component                  % of
Total Cost   Base Cost  +10% Costs  -10% Benefits
1. Paved roads rehabilitation             60         27            25              25
2. Gravel roads rehabilitation             5         41            36              36
3. CBD streets rehabilitation              6         98            89              87
4. Maintenance of trunk and city roads    16         34            30              31
Subtotal Roads Component (a)          87          34            31             31
5. Tech. assistance, training, studies    13               Benefits not quantified
and logistics
GRAND TOTAL                          100          30            27             27
(a) Including design and supervision of roadworks.



TABLE 8
Economic Costs of Alternative
(in US Million Dollars)
Taiama-Bo (without investment)
Link-Alt, TIBO-ALOO
Taiama-Bo - Original Length 51.6 km
Existing   Generated    Existing   Generated
Road       Road       Vehicle     Vehicle     Vehicle      Vehicle       Net          Total
Capital    Recurr     Operating    Operating   Travel Tune   Trawl hnme    Exogenous  Econornic
Year        Costs       Costs       Costs      Costs       Costs        Costs        Costs        Costs
1992           .000        .027       3.299       .000         .000        .000          .000         3.326
1993           .000        .013       3.432       .000         .000        .000          .000         3.444
1994           .000        .016       3.553       .000         .000        .000          .000         3.570
1995           .000        .018        3.658      .000         .000        .000          .000         3.676
1996           .000        .019        3.766      .000         .000         .000         .000         3.785
1997           .000        .019       3.879       .000         .000         .000         .000         3.898
1998           .000        .020       3.995       .000         .000        .000          .000         4.014
1999           .000        .020       4.114       .000         .000        .000          .000         4.134
2000           .000        .020        4.237       .000        .000        .000          .000         4.258
2001           .000        .021        4.364       .000        .000        .000          .000         4.385
2002           .000        .021        4.495       .000        .000        .000          .000         4.516
2003           .000        .021        4.630       .000        .000        .000          .000         4.651
2004           .000        .022        4.768       .000        .000        .000          .000         4.790
2005           .000        .022        4.911       .000        .000        .000          .000         4.933
2006           .000        .023        5.058       .000        .000        .000          .000         5.080
Total Benefits Costs - Undiscounted:
Economic          .000        .300       62.159       .000        .000         .000         .000        62.459
Foreign           .000        .000        .000        .000        .000         .000         .000
Discounted Economic Costs at:
.0%               .000       .300       62.159       .000        .000         .000         .000         62.459
10.0%              .000        .164       32.908       .000        .000         .000         .000         33.072
15.0%               .000       .131       25.867       .000        .000         .000         .000         25.998       OQ
20.0%               .000       .109       21.172       .000         .000        .000         .000         21.281        m x
40.0%               .000       .068       12.478       .000         .000        .000         .000         12.546       ,, Ln
-o    l



