CREDIT NUMBER 2451 SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
1%etween
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated          a             Z , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2451 SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           A4C22-C       , 1993 between the
REPUBLIC  OF   SIERRA  LEONE  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out with the Borrower's
assistance by the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA), a statutory
corporation established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(C)   the Borrower will, as part of such assistance, make
available to SLRA the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(D)   the Borrower   intends to obtain   from the African
Development Bank (ADB), a loan (the ADB Loan) to assist in financing
Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between ADB
and the Borrower;
(E)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), a grant (the UNDP Grant) to assist in
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between UNDP and the Borrower;
. (F)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Japanese
International Cooperating Agency (JICA), a grant (the JICA Grant) to
assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the JICA Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between JICA and the Borrower;
(G)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the European
Community (EC), a grant (the EC grant) to assist in financing Part
A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between EC and
the Borrower;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SLRA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SLRA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 28, 1992 and October
2, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)   "SLRA Act" means the Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act,
1992, of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)   "SLRA"  means   the  Sierra  Leone   Roads  Authority
established and operating under the SLRA Act;
(M)   "Road Fund" means the Road Fund established pursuant to
Section 25 of the SLRA Act to be used exclusively for the purpose of
defraying expenses incurred by SLRA in routine, periodic and
emergency maintenance of roads, including rehabilitation projects
for deferred maintenance;


﻿-3-
(g)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement;
(h)   "Road Fund Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(i)   "SLRA Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.01 (b) (iii) of the Project Agreement;
(j)   "DOW" means the Department of Works;
(k)   "DTC" means the Department of Transport, Communications
and Tourism;
(1)   "Principal Implementing NGO" means the non-governmental
organization designated by SLRA as the principal non-governmental
organization assisting in the carrying out of the non-motorized
transport program included in Part C of the Project; and
(M)   "NGOs" means non-governmental organizations participat-
ing in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty two million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 32,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to ",e financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, or cause to be opened and maintained, in dollars
a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,


﻿-4-
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15,
commencing May 15, 2003, and ending November 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such p).incipal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn rnd outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SLRA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SLRA
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SLRA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available, as a grant, to SLRA under arrangements, and on terms and
conditions, which shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by SLRA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the actions
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-7-
(i)   maintain,  or  cause   to  be   maintained,  in
accordance  with  sound  accounti%g   practices,
records    and    accounts    reflefting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records    (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made;
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii.) furnish to the Association as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SLRA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SLRA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)   the SLRA Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of SLRA to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SLRA or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e)   Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section:
(i)   the right of the Borrower     to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
(including the ADB Loan, the UNDP Grant, the JICA
Grant and the EC Grant) shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿-9-
(f) Paragraph (e) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the oblig ations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject, in the case of
the event specified in paragraph (e) of that Section, to the proviso
of paragraph (f) thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the adequate staffing of SLRA including the appointment
of all heads of department and the chief financial adviser and
accountant of SLRA;
(b)   the  appointment  of  independent  external  auditors
acceptable to the Association to audit the accounts of SLRA for the
period July 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993;
(c)   the appointment of: (i) the project coordinator; and
(ii) the engineering consultants, mentioned in Section 2.01 (c) of
the Project Agreement; and
(d)   the payment into the Project Account of an initial
amount of 200 million Leones.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by SLRA, and is legally binding
upon SLRA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance, Development
and   Economic  Planning  of   the  Borrower  is   designated  as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Department of Finance,
Development and Economic Planning
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    3363
Freetown
Telefax:
225353


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By/5'A                            AkPA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Catecory              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works            24,210,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 85% of
local expenditures
(2)   Vehicles,
equipment and
materials:
(a) Part A                430,000        100% of foreign
of the                              expenditures
Project                             and 90% of
local expenditures
(b) Part B
of the
Project:
(i) DTC               40,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 90% of
local expenditures
(ii) DOW             220,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 90% of
local expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Ecuivalent)    to be Financed
(c) Part C                 390,000       100%
of the
Project
(3)   Consultants'                             100%
services,
audit
services,
studies
and
training:
(a) Part A
of the
Project:
(i)   Training        290,000
(ii) Consul-        2,100,000
tants
services,
audit
services
and studies
(b) Part B                 290,000
of the
Project
(DTC
components
only)
(c) Part C                  90,000
of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Operating costs              ,O000        100%
(5) Refunding of               640,000         Amount due pur-
Project                                   suant to Section
Prepara-                                  2.02 (c) of this
tion                                      Agreement
Advance
(6) Unallocated              3,220,000
TOTAL                   32,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures excluding Civil Service salaries but including the
following incremental costs:
(i)   staff expenses and overnight allowances;
(ii)   cost of operating vehicles, plant and equipment
required for the Project;
(iii)   maintenance  of  Project  buildings  and  their
furnishings; and
(iv)   Project-related transport costs.


﻿- 15 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) carrying out a sustainable program for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of its roads including assisting its institutions to
plan and manage road maintenance and development; (ii) developing a
sustainable system for funding road maintenance; (iii) strengthening
transport sector institutions' capacity to (A) improve sector
management and planning, and (B) foster market-oriented policies;
(iv) promoting the use of appropriate labor-intensive technology and
local resources; (v) increasing private sector participation in road
maintenance; (vi) developing the road maintenance capacity of small-
sized contractors; and (vii) promoting the use of non-motorized
transport by the rural poor and thereby reducing head porterage as
a dominant form of transport.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance and Strengthening
of Road Management Institutions
(1)   Rehabilitation and strengthening of about 357 km of paved and
about 136 km of gravel roads in the road network.
(2)   Road improvement works in the city of Freetown including
rehabilitation of about 20 km of roads, drainage and traffic
infrastructure works.
(3)   Maintenance by domestic contractors of trunk roads initially
under a program of contractor training referred to in (4) (b) below
to be followed by contracts awarded to qualified contractors through
competitive bidding; and provision to SLRA of vehicles and equipment
for purposes of such maintenance.
(4)   (a)   Strengthening  the   organization,   management   and
administrative capabilities of SLRA and its operations including:
(i) improving SLRA's capacity to (A) plan and carry out road
maintenance and development including maintenance and development of
feeder roads, (B) supervise construction contracts, (C) manage and
coordinate the execution of Project activities, and (D) assist the


﻿- 17 -
City Council of Freetown to develop a capacity to maintain city
roads; (ii) the training of SLRA's staff overseas and at local
institutions; and (iii) provision to SLRA of (A) technical
assistance including assistance in the preparation of detailed
designs and bid documents for priority road works, and (B) office
buildings, facilities, vehicles and other logistical support.
(b) Assisting SLRA to train domestic contractors in road
maintenance including: (i) the training and equipping of (A)
retrenched former staff of DOW, and (B) other potential small
contractors; and (ii) the provision of technical assistance for such
training.
(5)   Assisting SLRA to carry out limited force account road
maintenance including the provision to SLRA of maintenance
equipment, spare parts and vehicles.
Part B:     Support to Transport Sector Institutions
(1)   Strengthening the organization, management and administrative
capabilities of the Department of Works (DOW) including providing
DOW with technical assistance, office equipment and facilities.
(2)   Strengthening the organization, management and administrative
capabilities of the Department of Transport, Communications and
Tourism (DTC) including: (i) improving DTC's sector planning and
policies; (ii) assisting DTC to (A) carry out key sector studies
needed to improve planning and sector management, and (B) improve
its transport data collection and analysis; and (iii) providing DTC
with technical assistance, training and office equipment.
Part C:     Promoting Non-Motorized Transport in Rural Areas
(1)   (a)   The carrying   out with the assistance of a non-
governmental organization acceptable to the Association (the
Principal Implementing NGO) of a pilot program to develop and
promote low-cost, non-motorized transport designed to reduce head
porterage, as a dominant form of transport, particularly in rural
areas.
(b)   Assisting in the importation, domestic production,
distribution and marketing of non-motorized transport vehicles by
the Principal Implementing NGO, other non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) acceptable to the Association, and local credit associations
including provision of technical assistance and facilities required


﻿- 18 -
for the effective participation of the local credit associations in
the pilot program.
(2)   The carrying out of studies to monitor, and determine the
socio-economic impact of, the pilot program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000, 000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association ahall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 20 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evHidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 21 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may requeint; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General conditions.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall with the assistance of consultants
acceptable to the Association carry out by June 30, 1994 a study
satisfactory to the Association to investigate what possible roles
and functions the Road Transport Corporation (RTC) may exercise in
the future, including an examination of the extent to which RTC can
be privatized and/or restructured.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Public Enterprises
Reform and Divestiture Committee to prepare, in consultation with
the Association, and furnish to the Association, by September 30,
1994 final proposals (based on recommendations satisfactory to the
Association of the study to be carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a) above) on the possible future role and functions of RTC; and
(ii) cause the said proposals to be promptly implemented.
2.    The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1993 carry out a
review satisfactory to the Association of the functions of the
Sierra Leone Ports Authority (SLPA); and (ii) cause SLPA to be
reorganized in accordance with the recommendations of said review.
3.    The Borrower shall continue to provide SLRA with adequate and
temporary office accommodations until the completion of SLRA's new
offices.
4.    (a)   The Borrower shall provide in its annual budget and
shall effectively allocate to SLRA amounts adequate to cover: (i)
the Borrower's counterpart contributions to the costs of the
Project, as determined annually by the Borrower and the Association
after taking into account revenues accruing to SLRA in the Road
Fund; (ii) any other amounts, additional to revenues accruing to
SLRA in the Road Fund and to the said counterpart contributions,
required by SLRA to cover in full the rehabilitation, maintenance
and development costs of the roads sector; and (iii) SLRA's
operating costs including SLRA's salary costs. The Borrower and the
Association presently estimate the amounts SLRA shall require to
carry out its operations in the roads sector to be as follows: (i)
$3.2 million equivalent in fiscal year 1992/93; (ii) $8.8 million
equivalent in fiscal year 1993/94; (iii) $10.2 million equivalent in
fiscal year 1994/95; (iv) $11.9 million equivalent in fiscal year
1995/96; and (v) $12.5 million equivalent in fiscal year 1996/97.


﻿- 23 -
(b)   The Borrower shall in consultation with SLRA prepare
before the commencement of each quarter estimates of the amounts,
additional to the revenues accruing to SLRA in the Road Fund and
said counterpart contributions, which SLRA shall require to cover in
full the rehabilitation and maintenance costs for the quarter of the
roads sector;
(c)   The Borrower shall: (i) before the end of the quarter
pay into the Project Account the estimated costs of the Project to
be contributed by the Borrower for the quarter; (ii) each week pay
into the Road Fund Account for the use of SLRA the revenues accruing
to SLRA for that week from the Road Fund; and (iii) before the end
of the quarter pay into the SLRA Account any other amounts to be
paid by the Borrower for the quarter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.
(d)   The Borrower shall ensure that SLRA's salary structure
and levels are, in real terms, maintained by SLRA's Board of
Directors at levels, and in accordance with principles and
practices, satisfactory to the Association.
5.    (a)   The Borrower shall cause to be levied and maintained
road user charges adequate to cover at any time the full estimated
maintenance and rehabilitation costs of its road network.
(b) Subject to paragraph (a) above, the E rrower shall until
December 1, 1998, cause to be maintained the road user fee included
in the road user charges at a level which shall not be less in real
terms (i.e. in December 1992 prices) than $0.20 equivalent per
gallon.
6.    The Borrower shall jointly with SLRA prepare and furnish to
the Association not later than January 31, 1993 guidelines
satisfactory to the Association regulating the use, in accordance
with the provisions of the SLRA Act, of revenues accruing in the
Road Pund to SLRA.
7.    The Borrower shall apply by January 31, 1993 to the European
Community (EC) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
for financing by EC and UNDP of the technical assistance components
of its road sector rehabilitation and maintenance programs not being
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 24 -
8.    The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to increase by
1996 the share of domestic contractors participating in its road
maintenance and rehabilitation works to at least 50% of all such
works.
9.    The Borrower shall: (i) review with the Association annually
its investment plans for the transport sector; and (ii) consult the
Association before undertaking any transport project exceeding
$3,000,000 equivalent in any year which is not included in the
annual investment plan reviewed and approved by the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


