Docment of
The World Bank
Report No. 14329-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
JUNE 5, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
April 1995
Currency Unit: Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
US$1.00 = ZMK 700
ZMK 100 = US$0.14
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fiscal Year = July 1 - June 30
Government Fiscal Year  January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAT           Beneficiary Assessment Team
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CMMU          Community Mobilisation Monitoring Unit
CSO           Central Statistics Office
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DDCC          District Development coordinating Committee
DIMS          Drought Indicator Monitoring System
EU            European Union
FHANIS        Nutrition and Health Monitoring System
GRZ           Government of the Republic of Zambia
HBS           Household Budget Survey
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LCMS          Living Conditions Monitoring Survey
LCMU          Living Conditions Monitoring Unit
MPP           Micro-projects Program (EU funded co-project)
MPU           Microprojects Unit (MPP/SRF joint administrative structure)
NCDP          National Commission for Development Planning
NFNC          National Food and Nutrition Council
NHFS          Nutrition and Household Food Security
ODA           British Overseas Development Administration
PAG           Participatory Assessment Group
PAM           Program Against Malnutrition
PLW           Project Launch Workshop
PMS           Preventive Maintenance System
PPA           Participator y Poverty Assessment
PPM           Program to Prevent Malnutrition
PPU           Provincial Planning Unit
PUSH          Project Urban Self-Help
SAP           Social Action Program
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SRF           Social Recovery Fund (IDA funded micro-projects component)
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
WASHE         Water and Sanitation Health Education
ZDHS          Zambia Demographic and Health Survey



-i1-
ZAMBIA
SECOND SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Government of the Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency:        Microprojects Unit, Office of the President
Beneficiaries:              Rural and Urban communities, Social Sector Agencies
Poverty:                    Program of targeted interventions to poor communities and part
of Government program for devolution of safety net activities to
local groups
Amount:                     SDR 19.1 million (US$30.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years including a 10-
year grace period.
Commitment Fee:             0.50 percent on undisbursed balances beginning 60 days
after signing less any waiver
Financing Plan:             IDA will finance 45 percent, the Government 6 percent,
Bencficiaries 16 percent, and Donors the remainder
Net Present Value:          Not Applicable. Project design based on cost-effectiveness
Staff Appraisal Report:     14329-ZA
Project ID:                 ZM-PA-32 10






-ii-
ZAMBIA
SECOND SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
Table of Contents
Chapter 1: BACKGROUND AND LESSONS LEARNT ..................................................................1
A. Macro  Economic  Background ...............................................................................1
B. Poverty  in  Zambia ...............................................................................2
C. Sectoral Background ...................... .4
D. Institutional Background .....................7
E. First Social Recovery  Project (Cr. No. 2273): Lessons Learnt .......................................................8
Chapter 2: THE PROPOSED PROJECT ..............................................................................                                                          15
A. Objectives and  Summary  Description ..............................................................................                                            15
B. Detailed  Project Description .............................................................................. 16
C. Project Coordination  and  Management ..............................................................................                                             30
D. Sustainability ..............................................................................                                                                  30
E. Special Project Issues ..............................................................................                                                          31
F. Reporting  and  Reviews ..............................................................................                                                         32
Chapter 3: PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ...... 33
A. Costs ..............................................................................                                                                           33
B. Financing ..............................................................................                                                                       33
C. Procurement ..............................................................................                                                                     34
D. Disbursements ..............................................................................                                                                   36
E. Accounts and  Audit ..............................................................................                                                             38
Chapter 4: PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................................................. 39
A. Project Benefits ..............................................................................                                                                39
B. Monitorable  Indicators .............................................................................. 40
C. Project Risks ..............................................................................                                                                   41
Chapter 5: AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................................................ 43
A. Conditions  ..............................................................................                                                                     43
B. Agreements                    .............................................................................. 43
C. Recommendation ..............................................................................                                                                  44
This report is based on the findings of a appraisal mission which visited Zambia in March, 1995. The extemal
participants in the appraisal were Alan Dock (Task Manager, AFIHR), Daniel Owen (Beneficiary Assessment
Specialist, AFIDSMz), Ingeborg Kleppe (Economist/Social Survey specialist, AFTHR), Margerite Salah (Operations
Officer AFIlHR), Alexandria Valerio (Policy Analyst, AFIHR), David Booth (SIDA Consultant), Anne-Kristina
Hermansen (Norwegian Ministry Foreign Affairs), Gertrude Ssali (Admin support, AFlIHR). The mission was joined
in all discussions and in the report preparation by Govemment counterparts: Mrs. Irene Kamanga, Team Leader and
Permanent Secretary NCDP, Cosmas Mambo (SRPI Coordinator), Clare Barkworth (TA, SRPI), Geoff Chipota
(SRPI Finance), Wedex Ilunga (I lead Tech Services SRPI), Ed Mwale (Head Field Services SRPI), Ben Zulu
(Project Coordinator MPP), Mel Jones (TA MPP), Emmanuel Silanda (Director Soc Research CSO), Ms. Chulu
(CSO), John Milimo (Poverty Assessment Group). Lead Advisor is Steen Jorgensen(AFRCA). Peer Reviewers are
Julie Van Domelen (LAIHR), Mary Barton-Dock (AF3AE), and Alexandre Marc (EC4HR). Gertrude Ssali assisted
in report production. Messrs/Mmes Roger Grawe, Phyllis Pomerantz and Katherine Marshall are, respectively, the
Division Chief, Countrn Operations Manager, and Department Director for this operation.



-iii-
Tables
Table 3.1: Financing Plan .......................................                                                                                                                         33
Table 3.2: Procurement Table .......................................                                                                                                                      35
Table 3.3: Disbursement Schedule .......................................                                                                                                                 36
Table 3.4: Disbursement Profile .......................................                                                                                                                  37
Figures
Figure 1: SRP Disbursemcnts .......................................                                                                                                                        8
Figure  2:  SRF  Disbursements by  Sector .......................................                                              .8
Figure 3: No. of Projects bv Province ........................................9
Annexes
Annex 1: Organization Chart for Project .......................................                                                                                                          45
Annex 2: Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) .......................................                                                                                                    46
Annex 3: Living Conditions Monitoring Survey .......................................                                                                                                     57
Annex  4:  The  Poverty  Analysis  Component ....................................... 62
Annex  5:  M icroprojects  Unit Organizational Chan   .......................................                                                                                            67
Annex  6:  Annual Reporting  Requirements .......................................                                                                                                        68
Annex 7: Supervision Schedule .......................................                                                                                                                     70
Annex 8: Documents Available on File .......................................                                                                                                             73
Annex 9: MIS Monitoring System .......................................                                                                                                                   74



Chapter 1: BACKGROUND AND LESSONS LEARNT
A. Macro Economic Background
1.1    Over the past 20 years, economic growth in Zambia has been amongst the lowest in
Africa. The standard of living of most Zambians has deteriorated sharply since its peak in the
early 1970s. These conditions have come about mainly due to worsening terms of trade, low
efficiency and decreasing levels of investment. Inefficiencies in the economy have been caused by
the dominance of parastatals and their capital/import - intensive strategies, price controls, and the
increasing share of public spending going to lvages. These have reduced public investment and the
efficiencv of public services. During the 1980's rural and urban incomes fell by 50 percent as
agriculture stagnated due to lack of incentives caused by price distortions and falling fornal sector
real wages. The government attempted several times to restructure the economy. The most
ambitious of these in 1985 - 87 was abandoned on the grounds that it generated excessive economic
and political instability and social unrest. The economy became more unstable between 1987 and
1989 with inflation rising from 35 percent in 1986 to 64 percent in 1988 and to 154 percent in
1989.
1.2    A new government was elected in 1991 and has committed itself to an ambitious economic
reform programme. The reforms include:
*  reduction of inflation;
*  privatization of parastatals;
•  public sector reform;
*  promotion of free and open markets;
*  deregulation; and
* decentralization and devolution of government administration.
1.3    The government economic reform recognises that it must also relieve the social problems
that have accompanied the economic decline and lessen the impact on the most vulnerable of the
disruptions that accompany economic restructuring. The primary goals are to increase
employment; expand resources to improve health, education, and other basic social services; and
meet income and other needs of vulnerable members of society.
1.4    The overall objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in Zambia, as stated in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in March 1994, has been to promote
sustainable economic growth and to reduce poverty by: (i) supporting macroeconomic stabilization
and structural reform policies; (ii) promoting private sector development and greater public sector
efficiency; and (iii) increasing targeted direct assistance to poor and vulnerable groups.
1.5    The economic stabilisation programme has stopped the practice of financing the
government deficit by borrowing from the Bank of Zambia ( i.e. printing money). Positive real
interest rates are charged and subsidies reduced. There has been a gradual disengagement from
agricultural sector marketing and spending on defense and paramilitary has been reduced to a
minimum. The foreign exchange market has been liberalised and improved budgetary planning,



-2-
monitoring and control mechanisms have been introduced. Inflation for 1993 was reported as 140
percent (low income bracket) dropping to 27.3 percent from January up to September 1994.2
1.6    The Government is committed to privatization, deregulation and to a Public Sector
Reform Programme which includes improved human resource management and retrenchment. The
outcomes expected will be a more efficient service dclivery and a smaller civil service, more
responsive to the needs of the Zambian people. The Government is also committed to a policy of
decentralization and devolution.
1.7    The reforms as outlined above have succeeded in halting the economic slide, but they wvill
take time to reverse the impact of almost two decades of economic deterioration on living standards
and the extent of poverty. Given the large number of poor households in Zambia now, it is
inevitable that many reform policies could have adverse consequences until a return to broad
economic based growth is acihieved.
B. Poverty in Zambia
1.8    Poverty is now an issue in Zambia. Since the mid seventies Zambia per capita national
income and all the social indicators have fallen dramatically. In 1991, about 69 percent of all
Zambians were living in households with expcnditures that were below the level sufficient to
supply nutritional and basic needs. Fifty-five percent belong to the core poor category - unable to
meet basic nutritional needs only.3
1.9    Rural poverty, more prevalent and more severe than urban poverty, becomes worse in the
more remote areas, and increases with distance to food markets and major roads. Over 90 percent
of the rural population are engaged in subsistence farming, depend on marketing for a cash income,
and are thus sensitive to price changes and sudden shocks to the market. Rural incomes continue to
deteriorate as agricultural prices have not risen as fast as other prices, and food producers are
suffering as the reversals in long standing policies take effect. The constraints to economic
recovery for the rural poor include lack of credit to farmers, inability of farmers to respond to
prices, (poverty, illiteracy, lack of information); lack of basic services (health, education, water,
transport and sanitation), and inaccessibility of markets.
1.10   Strategies for the recovery of the rural cconomy includes the provision of credit, reliable
marketing information, community based and private market organisations, rehabilitation of roads
for the transport of inputs and outputs, improved storage facilities, improved water facilities, and
the strengthening of farmers' organisations to increase bargaining powver. The provision of
improved water facilities frees women's time more dramatically than any productive new
technology, and also encourages horticulture and livestock production.
1.11   Urban poverty is characterized by overcrowvding, insecurity and fear, fragmented social
networks, and poor access to services which even when available, are expensive. Urban poverty
was negligible in the 1970s (4 percent in 1975) but has increased to 50 percent of the urban
population in the 1990s. Zambia is highly urbanised with more than 45 percent of the population
living in urban centres. Most of the urban poor live in unplanned squatter settlements without legal
2 Poverty Assessment for Zambia. World Bank 1994.
PovertY Assessment for Zambia. World Bank 1994.



-3-
status or access to basic services. Vulnerability in urban areas is related to employment, the
potential for a sustainable livelihood, and to assets at the community and household level. Formal
employment has declined between 1980 and 1990 from 23.9 to 9.8 percent of the workforce with
unemployment rising to 20 pcrcent4 For those in work, there has been a decline in real eaming of
80 percent across sectors. Nearly 43 percent of the urban population work in the informal sector.
The average household size is increasing because of inadequate and poor access to housing. The
insecurity created by the absence of legality of tenure in squatter areas is resulting in lack of
investment or service provision in those areas - for example transport, water provision and energy.
The lack of public transport hinders access to income opportunities, constrains access to other
social services, results in diminishing retums to trade, and frustrates the expansion of markets and
distribution of goods. In illegal settlements, there is no water provision, while in low income areas
the standpipes service ratio is 1:25 households. There have been periodic outbreaks of cholera and
dysentery. Only 5 percent of households in poor compounds have access to electricity and almost
twenty eight percent of the core poor's non food expenditure is spent on light and cooking.5
1.12   Strategies for development of the urban areas have been identified as resolving legal issues
regarding illegal settlements and titling procedures; developing small scale enterprise including, for
example, commercial and minimalist credit programmes; improving urban transport; improving
access to services such as water, roads and education (by facilitating community project
identification and implementation processes); and providing appropriate education services which
educate for self employment and the informal sector.
1.13   Womcn in both rural and urban areas are the most vulnerable. A female headed household
is a good indicator of poverty, and the combination of female headship without the support of a
man or adult children guarantees poverty.6 Female headed households tend to have high
dependency ratios and are most likelv to be poor. The poor and poorly educated women have the
highest fertility rate (average 7.1 children as against 4.1 for their educated sisters), and rarely use
contraception, which leaves them in a poverty trap of high dependency rates and less income to
invest in education and health of their children. Indicators of rural women's limited access to
education include an illiteracy rate of fifty-five percent, and a 38 percent showing in completion
for the restricted number of day secondary school places. Women have limited access to land while
unmarried women are rarely recommended for allocation of land if they do not have children. The
children of the poor are less likely to attend school because they are engaged in farming and
informal sector activities and the opportunity costs for schooling are high. In urban areas, women
are increasingly participating in informal sector activities, but are generally in the low return areas
and earn less than men. The long distances and waiting periods to reach water are added burdens
to women.
1.14   The Poverty Assessment for Zambia identifies strategies which distinguish between
providing a safety net for the indigent poor and a poverty reducing growth strategy which will
benefit the non indigent but temporarily poor. For those that lack resources, but have the capacity
to help themselves, the objective of a safety net is to promote investment in human or physical
capital. A major asset of the poor is labour and it has been recommended that an emphasis should
be placed on delivery of a safety net through labour based programmes. There is a need for
community based implementation of a number of activities such as feeder roads, water supply
4Priority Survey 1, 1991.
5 Poverty Assessment for Zambia, Volume 4, Urban Poverty, World Bank 1994.
6 Poverty Assessment for Zambia, World Bank 1994.



-4-
systems, peri urban public infrastructure and rehabilitation of social service delivery systems. The
Government emphasises devolution of safety net activities to local groups and the need to ensure
that interventions are planned with the poor and implemented by the poor.
C. Sectoral Background
1.15   A report commissioned b) the World Bank7, showcd that there has been a substantial
decline in social indicators.. The report elaborated the many constraints to social service delivery.
These included:
(a) inadequate guiding policies in many areas especially concerning women in
development, youth, watcr, and sanitation;
(b) inappropriate institutional structures;
(c) limited community participation in the identification, formulation, implementation and
evaluation of projects; resulting in community priorities often remaining unidentified,
and commitment to many projccts absent;
(d) inadequate professional and technical personnel and logistical support to social service
delivery;
(e) poor regulatory framework in the social sectors as many laws are outdated and need
revision;
(f) lack of coordination among the actors in the social sectors; and
(g) poor communication facilities in many areas.
Education
1.16   Primary education is characterised bv falling enrollments (2 percent growvth against a
population growth of 3.2 percent ), high wastage, falling teacher pupil time and teacher pupil ratio,
severe overcrowding, complete deterioration of facilities, no desks and a poorly motivated teaching
force with few, if any, teaching materials available. Schools have inadequate water and toilet
facilities, and urban schools are often closed due to outbreaks of water borne diseases. The primary
education sector has been hit by the bias to secondary and tertiary education, few new schools have
been constructed to cope with the growth and a multi-shift system is used in most schools to
maximise the utility of classrooms and teachers. Trained teachers will only offer their services in
rural primary schools which provide accommodation. District Education officers rarely visit rural
schools to monitor teachers' performance because of lack of recurrent funds to pay for transport.
Access to primary school remains limited. The real and opportunity costs of education are
increasing and in urban areas the demand for school places far outstrips supply - (3,000 applicants
for 120 places is not unheard of in Lusaka). The Ministry of Education estimated in 19928 that by
1996, 4,114 extra teachers and 3,657 classrooms would be needed to just maintain the status quo.
1.17   Evidence shows that illiteracy is increasing, especially amongst women in rural areas. In
1990, 44 percent of rural 7 - 13 year olds wcerc actuallv attending school. wvhile in Lusaka, only 55
7 Constraints to Social Service Delivery, May 1993.
Focus on Learning, Ministry of Education, 1991.



-5-
percent of 7 year olds could get places in Grade 1.9 For those pupils who drop out of school or fail
to get a place there are few further options for learning.
Healtl
1.18   Health indicators suggest a general downward trend in the health of Zambians. One in five
children born in Zambia dies before reaching age five.'° An average of 40 percent of children
between 12 and 24 months, with a greater prevalence in rural areas, show stunted growth,
indicative of chronic undernutrition. Iodine deficiency is a serious problem. AIDS is devastating
all sectors of soci oty, but more especially uneducated girls. Malaria continues to kill, and poor
access to sake water and sanitation has increased vulnerability to water borne diseases. Maternal
deaths and low birth wcights continuc to be high. Vaccination rates are falling to an overall low of
54.8 percent.
1.19   Although the downwvard trend of budgetary allocations to health has been reversed since
1991, reaching 13 percent in 1994, the existing health infrastructure has been left severely
dilapidated and access to health facilities, the quality of services, ava:lability of drugs and supplies
vary widely between rural and urban areas, as well as between poor and non poor areas. Health
staff are concentrated along the line of rail and in urban centers while rural health centers remain
uiiderstaffed. The Ministry of Health is committed to health reforms which focus on reorganization
of the Zambian health care system from one of overcentralisation to a decentralised district focus in
order to respond more effectively to today's health needs. Reforms being put in place are in the
areas of managerient and accountability, community participation, public/private partnerships and
human resource development. Strengthening the management of health services within the district
is regarded as the crux of the health reforms. The health centre has been identified as the key
contact point for households and patients to health care. This Centre will provide simple diagnosis
and treatments, but will require improved means of communication and expansion and
rehabilitation of existing facilities in terms of equipment, materials and staff. The 1007 health
centers and 100 hospitals of varying sizes need substantial funds if they are to achieve these modest
aims.
Water and Sanitation
1.20   Only 66 percent of Zambian urban dwellers and 47 percent of rural population have access
to safe water.1  During the last decade there has been increasing numbers of outbreaks of water
born diseases with over 40,000 cases of dysentery between June 1990 - 1993 and 15,000 clinical
cases of cholera between November 1992 - March 1993. Although most of the urban population
lives within one kilometer of a piped water supply, breakdowns and poor pressure, long queues,
and contaminated water are the norm. In rural areas the long walking distances and waiting times
for obtaining water represent a major demand on women's time. Only one in five Zamnbians have
access to a flush toilet. while one in three have no sanitation facilities at all.'2 The lack of a
comprehensive policy on water and sanitation and the lack of coordination between the several
ministries responsible and the numerous donors have been identified as key constraints to
improving water delivery.
9 Population Census, CSO, 1990.
'° Zambia Demographic Health Survey, 1992.
" Constraints to Social Service Delivery, 1993.
12 Zambia Demographic and Health Survey, 1992.



-6-
1.21   A Community Mobilisation Monitoring Unit (CMMU) has been established in the
Ministrv of Energy and Water Development whose role it is to ensure that water technologies are
appropriate and consistent with the local culture; the development of safe water resources has a
cost sharing component wvhich is affordable for low income consumers; there is an accelerated
rehabilitation programme and consultation wvith consumers at all levels of decision-making in ord 2r
to promote the community participation necessary for maintenance and sustainability of water
supplies. WASHE (Water and Sanitation Health Education ) technical committees have been set up
which are based in the districts and coordinate water projects.
Nutrition and Household Food Security
1.22   Malnutrition is the leading cause of death among children. 40 percent of children under 5
years old are stunted; 25 percent are underveight for their age; 5 percent are wasted."3 The more
remote provinces showv a higher incidence of chronic malnutrition. The areas showing the worst
nutritional status are those with either a poorly developed road netwvork or those in the rift valley
areas. Within a district, the worst nutritional status is found in peripheral areas of the district.'4
Malnutrition in rural areas shoNvs a higher incidence in households with high household
dependency rates and a young mother. In urban areas, malnutrition is linked to incomes levels and
education of the mother. The NFNC analysis of the PS I data shows that the urban households
which have the lowest levels of food security arc large, with high dependency rates, uneducated
heads of households and high levels of unemplorment (formal sector).
1.23   The sectors which should address and have an impact on nutrition and household food
security are agriculture, health. education and cconomic infrastructure.
Economic Infrastructiure
1.24   All sources agree that poverty and many indicators of poverty are directly correlated with
accessibility and distance to markets and urban centres. Remote areas of Zambia and the rift
valleys do not receive adequate social services, production inputs or marketing opportunities and
information. Food availability becomes scarce seasonally because the roads are either impassable
or badly dilapidated. Rural District Councils have failed to maintain these rural roads due to lack
of recurrent funds and equipment. In urban areas, the state of the roads discourages public
transporters, making transport either non existent or very expensive, which in turn constrains
economic activity.
1.25   The changes in maize marketing policv have had a major effect in rural areas. Rural
producers have not developed either on-farm or community-based storage capacity due to the
government marketing policies. The liberalisation of trading has resulted in an explosion of petty
traders and marketeers, and urban areas are now characterised by pavement sellers. The Municipal
and District Councils are devolving the management of markets to the marketeers themselves.
'3 Zambia Demographic Health Survey, 1992. National Food and Nutrition Council Analysis of
PSI Nutrition and Household Food Security, 1993.
14 FHANIS report for September/October, 1994.



-7-
Naoural Resources arnd Environment
1.26   The major causes of deforestation are urban fuel wood demand in Central, Copperbelt,
Lusaka and Southe -n Provinces, (39000 ha/annum) and agriculture (20 percent of forests have
been converted). Soil fertility is declining in areas which practice slash and burn agriculture
(chitemene) and li-estock stocking rates are more than double recommended rates. Mono-cropping
maize has led to deterioration of soil structure and loss of biological diversity. Poaching has
devastated wild ar.imal populations.
1.27   Urban seflements are unplanncd and the Councils are unable to provide essential services.
The increas.ng volumes of garbage dumped in residential areas and inadequate sanitation and
waste disposal facilities in urban areas is leading to increasing outbreaks of disease and pollution.
1.28   The National Environmental Action Plan details a strategy for improvement which
recommends: environmental planning be integrated into the development process through the
inclusion of environmental impact assessment of all development programmes in excess of
US$250,000; a property rights reform and privatisation be instituted; decentralisation, with
community involvement and participation in the planning process. Tree planting, soil conservation,
fuel wood plantations, water conservation with small dams and conservation education are among
some of the other recommended actions. 15
D. Institutional Background
1.29   The consequences of lack of coordination between donors, sectors, programmes and
projects is most felt by the very people these programmes are supposed to serve. The Government
of Zambia has recognized this problem and adopted a decentralisation policy. Both the Ministry of
Health and Ministry of Local Government and Housing have taken steps to decentralise decision
making to district level. The Ministry of Education also intends to restructure with particular
emphasis on the transfer of certain management functions to education boards at schools, colleges
and districts.
1.30   In order to improve coordination at district level, a-id encourage local government to be
more accountable to the people it serves, the Ministry of Local Government and Housing has
committed itself to an ambitious programme of decentralisation and limited devolution. District
Councils will establish District Development Coordinating Committees (DDCC) in each district.
The DDCC will be responsible for ensuring that the district plan - eventually both capital and
recurrent programmes of the sectoral ministries - answers the priority needs of the district and its
population. The sector ministries at district level will be represented on the DDCC. The District
Council will be expected to employ a district planner who will assist in the district planning
process, and appraise and monitor projects in the district. Eventually, it is possible that the DDCC
system could enable participatory bottom up planning for both the capital and the recurrent
budgets available to the different sectors. While the education and health sectors, public welfare
assistance, PAM, MPU and others have committed themselves to decentralisation of decision
making, there remains a need for these groups to coordinate and network their activities if
improved coordination is to be achieved. The described institutional changes will facilitate this
15 National Environmental Action Plan, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, 1994.



-8-
coordination by providing a structure at local level through which communities can formulate
proposals for submission to different and most appropriate funding sources.
E. First Social Recovery Project (Cr. No. 2273): Lessons Learned
Figure 1: SRP Disbursements
1.31   The Social Recovery Project ( Board
US$                                    date 19 June 1991; effective 16 August '91) is
supported by IDA and other donors (Sweden,
6,000,000 -                               Finland and Norvay) and has three
4,000,000 I                 n             components. These are the Social Recovery
Fund which finances community based
2,000,000 I                               initiatives through the Microprojects Unit
0                                  (MPU) ; the survey component which uses a
Nornvegian grant to conduct national Priority
cm-                            Surveys; and the study fund component
funded by a grant from the SIDA which
|Admin *Capilal  Projects oTOTAL    finances policy related studies.
(a) Social Recovery Fund
1.32   Microprojects Unit: the Microprojects Unit (MPU) is based in the National Commission
for Development Planning. The MPU was created in August 1991 when the World Bank/GRZ
Social Recovery Project joined forces with the European Union (EU) Microprojects Programme.
The MPU is administered as one unit sharing staff, systems, procedures and criteria. The MPU is
essentially a financing agency which appraises, finances and monitors the implementation of small-
scale community based projects. The target group for the MPU is non incapacitated poor, in rural
and urban areas. The gro%Nth in the activities and numbers of projects funded by the MPU has been
substantial. The administrative capacitv of the
MPU allows for a maximum number of 540        Figure 2: SRF Disbursements by Sector
projects under implementation at anv one time.           December 1994
or an average of 60 projects per province. By
September 1994, funds had been disbursed to
584 microprojects at an averagc rate of
US$965,000 per quarter. Micro-projects              hnfra   Water Credit
include the construction and rehabilitation of H ealth
schools, classrooms, rural health clinics; safe
water supplies; sanitation; markets and rural
roads; and the establishment of revolving
funds. The demand for the services offered by             !ducltio
the current project outstrips the capacitv of the
MPU and can be measured bv the accelerating
rate of disbursements. The Social Recoverv



-9-
Fu id of US$20 million will be fully committed by February 1995, one year ahead of schedule. 75
percent of the project credit had been disbursed by 31st December 1994. The balance of US$4.5
million si ould adequately cover: (i) all on-going sub-projects; and (ii) MPU incremental costs to
completion date. D onors such as the Government of Finland and Norway have recognised the
potential of the MPU for development and have also contributed to the Fund.
1.33   The Government of Zambia has become more committed to the SRP as the effectiveness of
the MPU in the implementation of social sector rehabilitation projects has been demonstrated. In
1994, the total budget counterpart funding - K180 million (US$240,000) - was released to the SRP
before the year er.d. The allocation for 1995 is K415 million (US$550,000) of which K361 million
(US$240,OCO) had been released by April 30. Considerable governmmnt support for MPU activities
at district and provincial level has been forthcoming in the form of sectoral involvement in the desk
and field appraisal committees and increased monitoring. Technical staff have taken greater
interest and responsibi.ity for monitoring technical aspects of micro-projects, and assisting the
communities in their implementation. As district staff understand and are better informed of the
MPU procedures, they are giving more appropriate advice to communities and apply the skills
learnt to other capital nrojects in the district. The Provincial Permanent Secretaries and the
Provincial Planning Units are also taking a more active role in MPU projects.
1.34   Strengths and weaknesses in the         Figure 3: No. of Projects by Province
current Social Recovery Fund in Zambia have              December 1994
been identified through several external
evaluations: - a Technical Audit; a Technical
Evaluation; three Beneficiary Assessments;
and a Management Audit, (available on Project          North          Luapula
files). These evaluations considered the quality
of the micro-projects; the project designs;                _i                Nst
implementation procedures used; the capacity  Lusaka
of the communities to implement self-help
projects; the extent to which the micro-project
met the community priority needs; the impact                                   Certral
of the micro-projects; the efficacy of the     CBeIt
project cycle; its disbursement procedures; ,
and the general administration of the MPU.                                 West
The overall assessment of these evaluations is       S  h
that there can be little doubt that the SRF has      South
been very successful in assisting communities
to acquire valuable new facilitics of which they are justifiably proud. Procedures and systems are
well developed, and the establishment of a Regional Officer network has been valuable in ensuring
that projects are implemented in a timely and technically sound manner. The evaluations agreed,
however, that there is need for the SRF to pay particular attention to increasing community
capacity to implement and manage their projects. The assessment also identified a need to pay
more attention to pre-project identification processes. A third area of development identified by the
mid-term review is the need to clarify and strengthen the role and involvement of line ministries in
Microproject unit activities.



-10-
(b) Survey Component
1.35   A major problem facing agencies implementing social sector and poverty alleviation
programmes is the lack of up to date usable information from which to identify and prioritize the
target groups, and to appraise and evaluate ongoing interventions.
1.36   The SRP component based at CSO has completed Priority Surveys 1 and 2, (PS1 and
PS2) as well as a community survey. Priority Survey I data were made available to users by the
middle of 1993, were published in November 1993 and a dissemination workshop held.
The PS 2 data wvere presented in draft tabulations in 1994, some analysis was completed in early
1995, and a statistical abstract produced in March. The community survey is currently being
analysed.
1.37   An evaluation of the survey component of the SRP was carried out during October and
November of 199416 The evaluation report recognizes that comprehensive data sets have been
produced and made available on a number of variablcs relevant for poverty analyses. The CSO
has been strengthened in the area of Social Statistics, and data processing capacities have been
enhanced. The training component of the program has been very successful. Provincial staff are
now able to enter collected data on their computers which were installed by the project in 1992.
Short-term and long-term training overseas have also been successful. Nine statisticians from the
CSO have benefited from this training.
1.38   The evaluation mission has recommended a continuation of the program into a second
phase, provided a number of adjustments are implemented. These adjustments concern:
* a refocusing of the surveys towvards the social sphere of living conditions
*  user-producer workshops to identify information needs
*  application of a smaller and more manageable sample
*  more appropriate questionnaire
*  improved routines for quality control in the field
*  long-term technical assistance to secure continuity
* attention to the need to secure continuitv and consistency with data already established
through PS I and PS 11
*  increased coordination of social statistics monitoring within the CSO
*  better advertising of data availability.
1.39   Following the drought of 1991/92, the Drought Indicator Monitoring System (DIMS) was
set up in Central Statistics Office to monitor the effects of drought on households and communities
in 27 districts. In March 1993, DIMS wvas changed into a permanent Household Food Security,
Nutrition and Health Monitoring System ( FHANIS), funded mainly by GRZ and FAO. The
overall objective is to strengthen the capacity to monitor and analyse the food security, nutritional
status and health conditions at individual and household level. FHANIS produces a monthly report
which is presented to a Technical Committee for analysis and recommendations which is in turn
presented to the Steering Committee of policy makers. If the data showvs districts wvith problems,
Rapid Rural Appraisal teams based in the Provinces with different government institutions are sent
16 Madsen and Stene. Social Recovery Projcct Survey Program, Evaluation of Phase 1, Nordic
Consulting Group. Copenhagen, 1994.



-I 1-
to iivestigate further. The lesson learncd here is that rapid analysis and dissemination of data is
essential for effective inputs to policy makers.
1.40   The Housel old Budget Survey started collecting data in July 1993 in order to produce
weights for the Consumer Prices Index; to provide household consumption expenditure for the
national accounts, distribution estimates of annual consumption across households to enable a
poverty datum line to be developed, and information about consumption of own produce and
consumption patterns. Both FHANIS and HBS benefit from long-term technical assistance,
ensuring consistency of external inputs.
1.41   The Zambia Demographic and Health Survey (ZDHS), 1992 collected and analysed data
on maternal and child health. The main lcssons learned were to ensure a focused questionnaire and
a reasonable sample size. The use of teams which inputted and checked data while still in the field
speede(C up implementation and improved the quality of the data. User involvement ensured
relevance of the data collected. The FHANIS was collected very quickly, and has used extensively
quick reporting to ensure timcly disscmination of data.
(c) Study Fund (Policy Related Studies)
1.42   The Study Fund aims to support the analysis of existing data on social and poverty issues.
Analysis is action orientated, and involves planners and programme implementors. The Social
Recoverv Project acts as the secretariat to the Study Fund Committee, which approves and
sometimes commissions studies.
1.43   As part of SRP 1, the Study Fund supported 27 studies, of which 22 were completed, in the
health, education, community development, agricultural production, urban poverty and housing
sectors, (See Appendix I to annex 4 for List of Completed and Ongoing Studies). Most of these
studies used existing data, many PS I and 2. The results have been disseminated to policy makers,
implementors and other researchers. The Study Fund has assisted the Poverty Assessment for
Zambia by providing local coordination and organization. It is also assisting with coordination and
funding of the analysis of PS2 and the dissemination of the results.
1.44   The Study Fund component wvas evaluated by the SRP during the mid term review in May
1994. In summary, the evaluation found that the Study Fund has made major progress in
building up viable structures and procedures which ensure the operation of policy related and
action oriented research. The Study Fund administration and the Study Fund Committee have put
in place mechanisms of selection and revicwv of studies which are crucial to the project component.
Guidelines and a Research Manual (availablc on Project Files) have been produced which have
improved both the quality of the proposals and the ensuing research. Additionally, there has been
an improvement in communication between the research community policy makers and
implementors, and dialogue initiated on thc development of appropriate strategies.
1.45   The evaluation noted that public institutions and ministries should become more involved
in the concept and the operation of the Study Fund to the extent that policy makers and programme
implementors commission the research they need. The evaluation recommended that the Study
Fund Secretariat needs to reinforce the review procedures and methodological support to the
researchers.



-12-
1.46   The Study Fund component of SRP I commissioned a Beneficiary Assessment Team
(BAT) and provided training in qualitative data collection as well as some infrastructure, (vehicles
and computers). BAT monitored and evaluated ongoing SRP Microproject activities from the
beneficiary's viewpoint. Qualitative data were collected at regular intervals and results were
quickly and readily available to develop SRP I interventions, improve procedures and systems.
Consequently, the beneficiaries are better able to access and use the funds provided under the
community initiatives component, and their needs are better met. The Beneficiary Assessments
have been utilised by other donor agencies, NGOs and GRZ, and in some cases BAT has been
contracted to conduct similar evaluations of other programmes (e.g. UNICEF, EC, MPP). The
Beneficiary Assessment team also undertook the Participatory Poverty Assessment for Zambia, the
results of which formed Volume 3 of the Poverty Assessment for Zambia.
1.47   Use of qualitative data collection and participatory, rapid rural or urban appraisals are
becoming more common. Many NGOs and church groups as well as Ministries are monitoring the
living conditions of the population, identifying priority problems, and implementing specific fact
finding missions.
(d) Other Government Social Sector Programmes
1.48   The Social Action Programme, conceived through dialogue with Government in the latter
part of 1990, established working groups chaired by the relevant line ministries for each sector,
and including government, non governmental organizations and donor representatives. The working
groups were to analyze the needs of the sector and identify programmes or projects within each
sector which would help ease the plight of the poor. However, terms of reference for the working
groups were never clear, and implementation was weak, mainly due to lack of criteria for project
identification, sclection and targeting of vulnerable groups. The system for monitoring and
evaluation was also poor. As a result, SAP funds have been largely disbursed without any
targeting, clear priorities, monitoring, reporting or evaluation.
1.49   The Social Sector Task Force, was established in March 1993, with sub task forces,
supported by technical secretariats. The task forces included education, health and nutrition, water
and sanitation and social safety nets. The Provincial Permanent Secretary is the Chairperson of the
Provincial Social Sector Task Force which is responsible for monitoring and reporting on all
projects in the Province. Similarly, Council Secretaries are the Chairpersons of the District Social
Sector Task Forces charged with monitoring and reporting district projects to the Provincial
committee. No clear guidelines on what to monitor nor how to report have been given and there are
wide variations between provinces and districts.
1.50   The Social Safety Net task force was charged with coordinating a social safety net for
Zambia. Government funds were to be made available to it to disperse to NGOs and other actors in
the social safety net. The problems encountercd were lack of monitoring information upon which to
base criteria and evaluate cffcctiveness of interventions, lack of government funding, and lack of
implementation and reporting procedures.
1.51   The Public Welfare Assistance Scheme was established under the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services. The target group is the chronically helpless. During the drought
of 1991/2, welfare committecs were set up in each district. consisting of NGOs, church groups,
line ministries and district council to determine who qualifies for assistance, which was mainly in



-13-
the form of free maize. The Ministry of Community Development is planning an evaluation of this
scheme so that targeting of the programme can be improved.
1.52   The goverrment responded to the drought of 1991/2 by setting up the Programme to
Prevent Malnutrition (PPM). Programme Against Malnutrition (PAM), an NGO, was specifically
set up to deal with implementation. Area PPM committees were set up to develop policy and solve
problems related to food relief in their areas and identify those communities in need. A lead NGO
then took over the distribution and, based on community assessments, food for sale, food for work
or free food was made available. Food for Work programmes aimed at improving local
infrastructure we; e organised. One of the main constraints to PAM was the lack of up to date
information as to how many people would need assistance and how much they would need. Very
little targeting and vulnerability information existed.' The PUSH programme assists urban based
communities with food for work programmes. The beneficiaries are mostly women who receive a
basic food package in return for wvorking on urban based infrastructure.
1.53   There have been some misgivings regarding the food for work programmes related to the
technical auality and the sustainability of the infrastructure created using food for work; the
targeting mechanisms used; the effects on production, prices and marketing mechanisms; and the
long term effects on beneficiaries in terms of dependency. An evaluation is presently being done by
a 3RZ multidisciplinary team, representing different government ministries, funded by SRP 1. The
results of this evaluation will determine policy and budget allocations for 1995.
1.54   The experiences show that community based projects are successful given certain
conditions. District involvement in decision making is essential to ensure coordination at the
community level and district committees must be willing and able to assist in the targeting of the
different programmes. Monitoring information is needed but is often lacking for targeting and
evaluation purposes. The most important condition however, is for the project to have arisen as a
direct demand from the community to remedy a perceived need. Programmes fail where
community demand is absent, and there are neither developed criteria for the funding of the
projects, nor systems and procedures for implementation and reporting.
17 PAM End of Drought Report



TRANSITION FROM SRP1 TO SRP2
(SRP1 Mid-Term Review Summary of Recommendations and Actions Taken)
PROBLEM                             RECOMMENDATIONS                       I ACTION TAKEN(since May 94)            ACTION FOR 1995
C o m m u nity   lev el       ...._.._._..._...                                                                   _    _     _    _   _     _    _ ... ......._. ._............_._.......
Poor information flows              *   Project Launch Workshop (PLW)    *   ALL projects have PLW before         *   PLW to continue
funding                           *   Project Implementation Manual
Lack of tech and admin skills       *   District staff to assist           *   district technical training        *   Hold District Workshop in every
*   Employ Technical supervisors      *   Project Implementation Manual          district
*   Community training                    produced                           *   PIM to all projects and districts
Community contribution              *   Prioritization of vulnerable groups   *   Appropriate community           *   Use PAG as facilitators
*   Needs Assessment with                 contribution identified at appraisal  *   strengthen community
communities                                                             I    organizations
M PU   P ro ced u res                              .    .._...._......._.........._. _.............     .........._ _ _ _ _ _
Application and project             *   simplify application               *   Redesigned application form        *   District Workshops in all districts
selection                           *   Desk appraisal to continue         *   District appraisal taking place
Field Appraisal                     *   Appraisal should be an exercise in  *   More time spent on appraisals,    *  Technical training to continue
community participation and           community all present              *   Facilitator workshop
development
Approval documents & Planning   *   Work program                           *   Work program redesigned            *   Project Implementation Manual
*   Project file tracking systems to  *   PLW takes 1-2 days to take         *   Increase Inputs to community 
monitor delays                        account of planning, etc.             level                                  -
*   MMS designed and in use
Monitoring                          *   Monitoring every 4-6 weeks         *   Increased use of district teams for  *   District Workshops to improve
*   Provide training to district staff    monitoring                             monitoring and technical input to
projects
Completion                          *   Procedures to be clarified         *   Procedures refined                *   Evaluate completed projects in
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I_________________  term s   of  tim e   size   etc.
M PU   Staff /A dmin   .. .............   .._...   ... ._....   .......   ... ...........  .     ..._.                    _       _ -i--;.
Regional Officer                    *   Increase decentralization to RO    *   Decentralization of some          *  Training Policy and Schedule to
Training as trainer, facilitator,     procedures to RO district teams        be developed for SPRII
coordinator                       *   RO Manual and Admin Manual
*   Develop RO Manual, revise MPU         produced
manual
Head Office                         *   Agree key result areas             *   Staff appraisal system developed   *   Increase management capacity in
*   Introduce tracking system             and agreed, Admin Manual               Unit
produced                          *   Further develop MMS
*   MMS redesigned
Institutional linkages              *   Provincial seminars                *   District and PPU greater          *   SRP Coordinating Committee
*   District training                     involvement                        *   District worichops
*   Contacts with other
I__ _ _agencies(PAM PUSH) increased



-15-
Chapter 2: THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
2.1    Objectives. The aim of the Project is to assist the Government of Zambia's poverty
reduction program through financing of community initiatives and building of capacity for poverty
analysis and mon'toring. The project will finance community initiatives which assist the poor and
vulnerable t meet their owvn objectives during the adjustment period and thereby allow faster
economic and social recovery. The community-based micro-projects will include the rehabilitation
and improvement of existing infrastructure and social service delivery. The Project will also
improve the capacity of communities and government staff to plan, appraise, manage and maintain
investment projects through the experience gained in such micro-projects. The Project will also
enhance the capacity of Zambian institutions to collect and analyze poverty related data. The
beneficiary communities will be involved in the information gathering as well as in the planning,
design anci implementation of the micro-projects. The Project will strengthen the communities'
ability to take charge of their owvn development, rekindle the spirit of self help, and strengthen the
capacities of the relevant institutions to gather, analyze and act on relevant information.
2.2    Summary Project Description. In order to achieve these objectives, The Project will have
three components:
(a) Community Initiatives (75 percent of total project costs) which will finance
microprojects identified, prepared and implemented by communities with appraisal and
supervision from the MPU; a sub-component will finance capacity building in micro-
projects implementation and decentralized government agencies;
(b) Poverty Monitoring (5.7 percent of total project cost), which will finance capacity
building and data collection through a Living Conditions Monitoring Survey (LCMS)
and a systematic participatory monitoring and assessment system;
(c) Poverty Analysis (2.3 percent of total project cost), which will finance policy relevant
research on poverty and social issues in a demand-driven framework, building on the
success of the Study Fund under SRP 1.
2.3    All the components are based on the experience gathered under SRP 1 (see Chapter 1), with
appropriate revisions as identified by the various independent evaluations and mid term review. As
a condition of effectiveness for the IDA Credit, the Government will have disbursed at least half
of the 1995 budget allocation for the Social Recovery Project to the MPU.



-16-
B. Detailed Project Description
Community Initiatives Component
2.4    Administration of the community initiatives component of the Project will be based in the
MPU and will build on the sound foundations and experiences of the SRP 1. The component will
finance micro-projects wvhich are small, simple and locally generated. The micro-projects must
meet a priority need of the majority of the community applying for the micro-project, and must
have a substantial (usually 25 percent) community contribution. The micro-projects will serve the
poor and vulnerable and will support govemment policy within each sector. The program will
remain demand-led but will aim through different initiatives described below to diversify the micro-
project portfolio so that a wider array of possible needs could be met.
Targeting
2.5   In order to better target the poor and vulnerable with micro project interventions, the MPU
will make increased use of participatory monitoring and assessment through a newly formed NGO,
the Participatory Assessment Group ( PAG); the results from the Living Conditions Monitoring
Surveys; and the analyses provided by the Study Fund through the SRP Coordinating Committee.
The PAG will (i) conduct regular site surveillance to monitor poverty issues; (ii) carry out
Beneficiary Assessments of micro-projects; (iii) assist in district level training in participatory
techniques, to strengthen the district involvement and capacity for identifying vulnerable
communities; and, (iv) interact ivith vulnerable communities to sensitise and assist in articulation of
their priorities and requirements for interventions. The results of the LCMS and the Study Fund
analyses will assist in the identification of specific geographical areas and communities where
extreme poverty is present. The MPU will remain demand led and will consolidate and improve
further the rigorous procedures of application and appraisal which ensure that only poor and
vulnerable communities benefit from the micro-project interventions. Communities which are
recognised by the district team as being more poor and vulnerable wvill take priority in the project
selection process of Desk Appraisal. Communities which are more willing to contribute, signifying
a priority need and commitment to projects, wvill also score higher in the selection process. Even
with this appraisal process, the MPU recognises that there may be core poor persons within a
community ( widows, female headed houscholds Avith dependents, orphans and disabled) who may
not benefit directly from interventions specifically aimed towards their community's needs. The
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme, UNICEF and other agencies are targeting interventions
specifically for these groups, thus assisting them to participate in and benefit indirectly from the
community targeted interventions. Before the mid-term review, as a measure of the effectiveness of
thcse targeting processes, the Studv Fund will finance a study of microproject interventions against
a background of geographical communitv/district/provincial poverty indicators derived from
surveys.
Sectors of Intervention
2.6    Within the health sector, the MPU will complement and coordinate its activities with the
health reform program. The MPU has developed tried and tested procedures for community based
micro-projects. Where the district health boards are intending themselves to fund community-based
initiatives, the MPU will assist them with these micro-project procedures. Where communities
apply for health micro-projects to the MPU, district health boards w%ill be asked to appraise and



-17-
mcnitor the micro-projects. Coordination w ill take place at district and community levels. The
Project may fund the rehabilitation, extension and equipping of both rural and urban health centers,
including staff housing where this is inadequate. New constructions of Health Centers will only be
funded where the C istrict Health Board has agreed on the site, guaranteed availability of qualified
staff, and has assumed responsibilitv for thc recurrent costs of drug delivery and staff salaries. All
health infrastructr re rehabilitation micro-projects will have a water and sanitation component as
well as equipment, including lighting, where necessary. The MPU will follow any directives from
the Ministry of Health regarding changes in design or equipment of rural and urban health centers.
2.7    The education sector is likely to continue to benefit significantly from support
administered by the MPU. The need for rehabilitation and extension of primary schools is still a
priority and parents are willing to contribute substantially to the micro-projects. The MPU will
continue its primary school rehabilitation and extension program, provision of water and sanitation
faciliti s, and supply of school firniture. It is likely that remote rural schools will benefit by an
upgrading from pole and thatch buildings with no trained teachers, to proper classrooms with
housing to attract trained teachers. Large urban schools wvill be transformed from having
vandalized and overcr-wded classrooms, with no sanitation to speak of, into institutions with
adequate space, fumiture, lighting and improved sanitation facilities. The improvement in teachers'
and pupils' environments will enhance the morale of both and hence increase the effectiveness of
rural and urban schools. Schools rchabilitated under the SRP I are being maintained by the Parents
Teachers Association and a sense of pride and ownership has been engendered. The MPU will
insist that a maintenance committee is set up and functioning before any micro-project is funded.
2.8    Micro-projects in the areas of vocational training and technical skills training will be
eligible for financing under the Project. A training proposal may be a component of an
infrastructure micro-project, or it may be a discrete micro-project on its owvn. For example, there
may be a training component to a well construetion micro-project which would include primary
health care, pump maintenance and community organization. There could also be a well digger
training micro-project proposal. The central principle is that the Project will fund training only if it
is community based and meets a priority need for the participating community. Training will
usually be for a discrete length of time (c.g. 10 days), and both subject matter and training
curriculum must meet GRZ and MPU priorities. Some examples of what might be funded include
on-farm storage, well-digging; sanitation; functional literacy; primary health and nutritional
training; barefoot veterinarians: cattle club workshops; preventative maintenance workshops;
financial management workshops; marketing; horticulture (especially for women); and trainer of
trainers in any of the above. Training would be provided through the relevant government
department or by utilising other locally available expertise, and expenditures in the provision of
workshops, etc. could be supported.
2.9    In the water and sanitation sector both rural and urban communities are eligible for
financing. Water is a key priority, especially for wvomen as evidenced by the results of the Poverty
Assessment. Under the Project, the MPU will continue to insist that social sector facilities should
have a water and sanitation component as part of the micro-project. The project will also aim to
increase its inputs to the water and sanitation sector by sensitization at district workshops and the
development of community planning. Coordination with local District Water and Sanitation Health
Education Committees will continue so that micro-projects identified in the water and sanitation
sector comply with the district prioritized water plan and thus fall within the relevant ministry
plans. Use of NGOs as intermediaries working in the water and sanitation sector may continue.
Water micro-projects will continue to have a health education component as well as training for



-18-
maintenance of the facility and insistence on the establishment of a community maintenance
committee with a cost sharing function. Micro-projects may include the rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply systems, where the technology is simple, appropriate and cost effective
to maintain. In the rural areas, simple hand dug wells with windlass and bucket, or boreholes where
the water table is very deep, may be funded while in urban areas, rehabilitation and expansion of
community based water systems will be funded.
2.10   The Project may finance community-based economic infrastructure improve-ment and
rehabilitation. In rural areas, remoteness and inaccessibility are correlated with poverty and chronic
food insecurity. In these areas, the Project may fund rehabilitation or reconstruction of earth
surface rural roads which will improve access to markets and facilitate social service delivery. The
Project may also fund bridges, markets, solar lighting plants for clinics and schools, community
based grain banks, rehabilitation and expansion of communal irrigation systems and cattle club
facilities for small scale farmers. In urban areas, community priorities are likely to be peri-urban
road rehabilitation, market construction, and waste disposal. In appraising such interventions the
project will seek the guidance and involvement of appropriate expertise from Government and other
agencies.
2. I1   The environment is also a high priority for the Government of Zambia as outlined in the
recently completed Environmental Action Plan.'8 The Project may finance community based soil
conservation schemes, tree nurseries, reforestation micro-projects and community training. Here
too, sources of expertise outside the project wvill be utilised.
2.12   Credit or revolvingfunds will be made available to rural women and those made
redundant by the Public Sector Reform Programme. The Project will build on the experience the
credit and revolving funds wl'hich operated under SRPI. Improvements will be made to the
procedures and criteria for funding. There will also be an insistence on a savings element to all
credit projects before consideration for funding. Training in financial and business management
will form an automatic component of any credit project. Procedures for releasing the revolving
funds to beneficiarics will be developed and submitted to IDA for approval before use.
2.13   The Project will be a major player in developing safety net activ-ities. Micro-projects
which would help provide safety net services will be given priority within the sectors described
above. Such micro-projects wVould include grain banks in food deficit areas; intensive labor works
for remote, rural, poorlv accessible and chronically food insecure areas; micro-projects specifically
targeted to women; and urban based skills training micro-projects. Through the MPU Steering
committee, the Project will coordinate its interventions in this sector wvith other agencies active in
the provision of social safety nets such as PAM, PUSH, and other NGOs.
Component Management - The Microprojects Unit (MPU)
2.14   The community initiatives component will be based in the MPU, an autonomous unit
within the NCDP. The Unit reports to the Perrnanent Secretarv for Economic Cooperation. The
MPU, in its current form, was created in August 1991, when the SRP joined forces with the EU
Microprojects Program. Since then, other donors and projects (Finland, Nonvay, Zambia
I National Environmental Action Plan. Ministry of Environment and National Resources, June
1994.



-19-
Education Rehabilitation Project) have appraised the MPU's efficiency and capacity for project
implementation and have channeled money through the unit. Microprojects are identified, appraised
and moni.ored by the same criteria, procedures, systems, and staff irrespective of the funding
source. Assurance. will be souight from Government at negotiations that the MPU will continue
in its present form for the life of the project.
2.15   The MPU consists of a central 'head office' and a regional/ provincial network. Overall
administrative responsibilities for the MPU are shared betwveen a coordinator for the Social
Recovery Programme and a coordinator for theEUfunded component. In addition to the
coordinators, the MiPU has an accountant, head of technical services, head of field training and
research coordinator. All posts are filled by local consultants on twc year contracts. Job
descriptions, performnance criteria and reporting mechanisms have been developed for each post.
Besides these local staff, the MPU has one intemational long-term consultant in an advisor
position. (Classification (c) of O.D. 8.40) Administrative procedures have been appraised and
found acceptable and cost effective (see Administrative Manual available in project files). The
Government has agreed to keep the MPU staffed at all times with staff whose qualifications and
terms of r.cference are acceptable to IDA.
2.16   The Head Office provides support to the regions, prepares technical plans and budgets for
each micr -project, deals with all the financial transactions of the micro-projects, assists with
procurement and plans, coordinates training and provides a secretariat for the SRP Steering
Committee. The MPU is represented in each Province bv a Regional Officer, usually located in the
Provincial Planning Unit (PPU) with which they have close links. The Regional Officer is the main
point of contact between communities and the MPU, providing advice to communities and NGOs
on MPU procedures; receiving completed application forms; coordinating micro-project desk
appraisal committees with district and PPU staff; coordinating and conducting microproject field
appraisals and launch workshops; monitoring microprojects with line Ministry district and
provincial staff; arranging for additional supervision and monitoring visits where required; and
issuing Completion Certificates to finished micro-projects. The Regional Officers report to and
seek advice from the MPU in Lusaka frequently, through an electronic mail and fax system linking
all provincial offices to the main data storage in the Lusaka Head Office. They report their
activities to Provincial Permanent Secretaries with whom they liaise regularly, and work very
closely with the Provincial Planning Unit staff. They part:cipate in Provincial Development
Committee and Provincial Task Force Meetings and represent the MPU in dealings with provincial
and district GRZ staff, with district councils and with NGOs.
2.17   The Steering Committee of the MPU approves or rejects micro-projects, ensures
coordination between donors, and compliance with GRZ policy. In addition it functions as a
pipeline for the findings of the LCMU and PAG in identifying specific poor and vulnerable target
communities. The MPU Steering Committee reports to the Social Recovery Project Policy
Coordinating Committee on a six monthly basis. The Project Policy Coordinating Committee
advises of any policv changes which could effect the criteria for project approval.
Micro-project Cycle
2.18   The Project will follow the procedures and implementation plan developed for SRP1
Evolutionary changes initiated within the micro-project cycle as a result of the various evaluations
and mid-term review will be consolidated in SRP2 (page 14). Further developments to the micro-



-20-
project cycle will include district workshops and community based participatory planning
initiatives.(see para 2.29, Institutional Capacity Building).
2.19      Project capacity.    The capacity of the Provinces for on-going micro-projects will remain
at sixty per Province but because of increased involvement of district offices and refinement of the
appraisal and administrative procedures, the turnover is likely to increase to about four new
micro-projects per quarter per province. The average MPU contribution per micro-project is
around US$75,000.
THE MPU MICROPROJECT CYCLE
District Workshops
Sub-district and district staff
project identification, plannrb                d DDCC, PTA'st
Community level Participatory          HAC, NGO, PAG
Planning (PAG)                         Communities
CommUnlq                             KO of fice
PRE MICROPROJECT                      MICROPROJECT                   District assistant                   PPU
IDENTIFICATION                        IDENTIFICATION                   CROPROJEc    Application1to:       District Council
APPLICATION                          District Line Dept.
Community
MAINTENANCE         COPLTN           
DESK        PPU, District team & RO appraise
PMS                      i                                                APPRAISAL   (NB Desk Appramsal Criteria)
Community Miaintenac             
Committee\ 
FIELD      PPU. District team, technical expert & RO
\  APPRAISAL  Technical appraisal giving bills of quantiies, designs
Appraisal community commitment & contribution
F    MIONrrORING \  |                                                          tr      NB Appraisal forms
DDCC, wi CC distrt                                                   | PMICROPROJECr BUDGET  MPU Technical Team
Technical monitornn8\g
STEERING      MPU criteria
COMMITTEE | GRZ policy
hICROPROJECT          RO with District team
LAUNCH WORKSHOP    How to implement a MPU project
Self-Help with hired labour     CROPROJET IMLEMENTATION                                               Ensure Community commitment
Community purchase materials
Community hires local skilled labour                     Supply and Fix Contract
Communities provide unskilled labour and some materials  Local competitive Bidding
36%. 24', 24%. 16% disbursement after justification
RO, district team MPU certify works done, money accounted
MICROPROJECT implementation manual
2.20      Identification. This step in thc microproject cycle is demand driven. Micro-projects are
identified through a process of examination of needs by the communities themselves (pre-
identification assistance may be forthcoming from  the PAG  or other NGO  where the community
has been identified as amongst the extremely poor Sec para 2.31). A local group or community-
based organization elects a project committee and completes an application form. The micro-
project proposal should present a solution to an identified priority problem, and show how it will
benefit the poor and vulnerable. Applications to the MPU can only be made for micro-projects
which have widespread support within the community. The proposal must show a local community
contribution of about 25 percent of the total micro-project costs (in cash or kind and ascertained by
the field appraisal team): demonstrite that the micro-project can be successfullv completed



-21-
normally within one year; and be simple enough to be implemented without significant technical
assistance from outside the community.
2.21   Micro-project Appraisal andApproval. The desk appraisal process (screening of
applications) is done by a district based Desk Appraisal Committee, whose members are the MPU
Regional Officer, Provincial Planning Officer (PPU), district officers of the relevant line ministries
and a member of the District Council. This process allows for coordination between donors and
sectors and encourages those who will be ultimately responsible for the micro-project to have an
input at the start of a micro-project's life. The MPU has developed scoring criteria with which to
desk-appraise proposals so that the task is performed in a consistent manner (criteria are found in
the Regional Officer's Manual, see project files). It is at this stage that the majority of micro-
project proposals not meeting Project criteria are screened out. The establishment of the District
Development Coordinating Committees (DDCC) and the recruitment of District Planners in each
District Council as part of Government's continuing policy of decentralisation will greatly assist
this process and it is anticipated these institutions will eventually take over the function of the Desk
Appraisal Committees.
2.22   Micro-projects approved at desk appraisal are then subjected to a field appraisal visit
made by the MPU Regional Officer accompanied by a member of the PPU and District staff. Field
appraisal forms have been developed for every sector, and include guidelines for both technical
appraisal of ihe proposed microproject and appraisal of community commitment to the micro-
project. The targets and community contribution are discussed in detail and agreed with the
community. The appraisal team assesses the size of the micro-project relative to the contribution
the community can make. Micro-projects which do not meet the requirement of a significant
community contribution are either rejected at this stage, or referred back to the community for an
increased contribution. The material component of the community contribution should be already
collected and in evidence at field appraisal before a micro-project is recommended for funding.
Where the community is obviously very poor and are willing but unable to meet the full community
contribution, the appraisal team may recommend a lesser contribution on a case by case basis.
2.23   Field appraisal reports are submitted to MPU Head Office where recommendations by the
appraisal team are checked by a committee of senior MPU staff. The Technical Section prepares
the budgets, based on field appraisal reports for the materials, labor, transport, fumiture and
equipment required to undertake the micro-project. The micro-project is then costed and presented
to the Steering Committee for approval. The Steering Committee, which meets every three months,
consists of representatives from GRZ line Ministries, members of the donor and NGO community
and other specialized agencies. Newv micro-project proposals are presented at each meeting and are
approved subject to GRZ priorities. On average, the approval process takes about six months from
first application.
2.24   Implementation. Following the forrnal approval of a micro-project proposal, a Financing
Agreement is prepared which includes detailed budgets and an outline of the responsibilities of the
various parties involved in implementing the micro-project. The Financing Agreement is the legal
agreement between the community and MPU and describes the conditions of financing. A Project
Launch Workshop (PLW) is held for every micro-project before any money is released. (Format
for PLW is in the Regional Officer's Manual available from Project Files). The workshop is
intended to avoid problems of misunderstanding about communities' responsibilities during micro-
project implementation. The Project Committee, formed by consensus in the community during the
initial stage of project identification, opens a bank account solely for the micro-project's use and



-22-
the disbursement of funds starts. The funds are disbursed in four allocations. The first allocation is
36 percent of the total MPU contribution. The second and third allocations are each 24 percent of
the total approved budget and are disbursed only after 75 percent of the previous allocations are
justified with receipts. The fourth and last allocation is disbursed after an estimate has been made
of remaining works.
2.25   Monitoring. Monitoring is critical to successful microproject implementation. MPU
strives to keep a high standard of transparency and accountability by applying strict criteria for
micro-project appraisal and monitoring. Physical progress and financial reports are submitted by
microproject committees with every justification. These are complemented by quarterly monitoring
visits conducted by the MPU Regional Officer, Provincial Planning Unit and interested district
agencies. Resources are also provided to the district and provincial administrations for extra
monitoring. The distinction is made between technical monitoring and technical supervision.
Technical monitoring xvill be done by the Government Public Works Departments, Buildings
Officers (Education and Health), District Council Works Departments and other technically
qualified personnel wvho will visit the micro-project when it reaches key stages (e.g. foundation,
wall plate). Technical supervision will be budgeted for as part of each microproject and each
implementation committee will be expected to hire a technically qualified supervisor, on site daily,
and responsible for the quality of the work as well as the use of materials and labor.
2.26   The MPU is developing a networked database information system to monitor the physical
and financial progress of the micro-projects as well as all administrative transactions of the MPU.
All head office staff and Regional Officers wvill be connected to this data base allowing immediate
access to up-to-date and relevant information. The system wvill reduce administrative bottlenecks
and have the capacity to monitor benchmarks such) as number of microprojects in progress/
disbursements per province, number of microprojects per province at critical points in the project
cycle etc. These simple performance indicators will be used to assess the efficacy of changes
introduced in MPU procedures and in the microproject cycle by comparison with the parameters
used in the Project design profile (para 2.1 8). (see also annex 9).
2.27   Completion. A Completion Certificate is issued when the Regional Officer, community
and relevant GRZ line ministry officer have all signed to confirm that the micro-project is 100
percent physically complete, and the Justification Officer has signed to certify that it has justified
100 percent of the allocations made for its implementation. Micro-projects are closed if there has
been misuse of funds or no community commitment or contribution. Should a problem develop in
the financing of a microproject, communities are given every chance to pay back misspent funds
and/or to reduce targets so that the community benefits from at least part of the micro-project.
2.28   Maintenance and Sustainability. The MPU will coordinate its activities in the education
sector with the Preventive Maintenance System, (PMS) in the Ministry of Education, both at
national and provincial level. Schools wvhich apply for MPU funding must have an existing and
active Preventative Maintenance Committee in placc. For water and sanitation micro-projects,
MPU asks that members of the community are trained in the appropriate maintenance and there is
some cost sharing system in place for subsequent maintenance, before the micro-project is
approved. The application form asks that the community consider the issue before applying.



-23-
Institutional Capacity Strengthening
2.29   The overall strategy in the Project is to encourage a gradual shift of responsibility for all
aspects of microproject implementation to the appropriate district agencies of the line ministries.
SRPI made a major input to the improvement of the capacity of communities, district officials,
provincial officials, and its own MPU staff, to plan, appraise, implement, monitor and maintain
capital projects. Regional Officers receive quarterly training. Provincial seminars, District
workshops and Project Launch workshops were developed in response to recommendations from
several evaluations. The Project will continue these activities, and add a component of community
capacity building which will complement and further develop these activities.
Community Capacity Building
2.30   Beneficiary Assessments identified a need to pay more attention to pre microproject
identification processes and community planning. The Technical Evaluation identified a need to
focus more on building community capacity to implement their microprojects in a technically sound
manner.
2.31  AMicroproject Identification Process. The Project will play an increased role in assisting
targeted very poor and vulnerable communities in problem identification and prioritization. The
Project may finance facilitators such as the Participatory Assessment Group (PAG), NGOs and
other agencies to work with targeted very poor and vulnerable communities in participatory
community based planning. This will be an informal gathering of the entire community during
which participatory techniques will be utilised to sharpen the community focus on its needs and
priorities and establish the steps to be taken in identifying a possible microproject. communities.
These facilitators will also be instrumental in enhancing the capacity of the beneficiary community
to undertake and sustain its owvn development.
2.32   Diversifying the Microproject Portfolio. Education accounted for 70 percent of MPU
microprojects in SRP I, and although education is a high priority, the Project would hope to
diversify its portfolio bv encouraging communities to identify other microprojects which are also
recognised as having a high priority. The Project will make every effort to maintain the 'demand-
led' principle in pursuing this goal. Participatory techniques will be introduced into the training
for Regional Officers and District officials and utilised as described in para 2.30.
2 33   Project Implementation Manual. The manual (available from project files) was
developed during SRPI, and aims to assist communities to implement their microproject. The
Manual deals with community organization and development as well as technical issues. The
Manual will be available to every new microproject approved as well as to district staff. It is
expected that this Manual will have a positive impact on community capacity to plan and
implement their owvn development.
2.34    Project Launch Workshops. Field appraisals and monitoring will become more
community-focused. Regional Officers will be trained in basic facilitation techniques and more
time will be allowed for these activities. Plans and budgets will be presented in a simpler and more
appropriate way to facilitate understanding.



-24-
District and Provincial Capacity Building
2.35   District Workshops. Increased district staff involvement in microprojects has assisted
communities in completing micro-projects faster, and in a technically sound manner. It also
insures that microprojects are physically maintained and provide effective service delivery after
completion. The Projcct wvill therefore strengthen the capacity of districts to assist communities
with microproject identification, appraisal, implemcntation and monitoring, by holding workshops
in every district. This activity is considered critical to both the sustainability of the microprojects
and their eventual absorption into the work of the district offices. The activity also reinforces the
Government's moves towards decentralization and devolution to the district level. It is expected
that district and sub district GRZ and district council staff as well as representation from local
government (Council Chairpersons and Chairpersons of sub committees) and NGOs will attend the
workshops. The district workshops xvill involve on the job training, and will also identify any local
initiatives in community facilitation and participatory planning with a view to tapping into and
assisting them. It is expected that one district workshop per quarter per province will be held, and
national coverage will be achieved in two years.
2.36   Provincial seminars. Provincial Seminars will continue for Provincial based staff.
Where there are active Provincial Development Coordinating Committees, the MPU will use that
forum for dissemination of information to Provincial level GRZ staff. Where these are not active
the Regional Officer will organize an annual Provincial workshop to report the progress of the
microprojects as well as discuss district and provincial involvement in the microproject cycle and
problems encountered during microproject implementation.
MPU Capacity
2.37  No further expansion in the administrativc capacity of the SRPI is envisaged. Regional
Officer Training will take place on a quartcrly basis, will include in-the-field, on-the-job training in
community development, facilitation techniques, technical appraisal and monitoring at the
provincial and district levels.
2.38   In summary, the actions proposed in this projcct empower communities by strengthening
the capacity of established community bascd organizations and those formcd spontaneously, to
clearly identify needs and priorities of the community, plan its development, organize achievement
of the objectives, account for moncy, implemcnt projccts and maintain the infrastructure created.
District and Provincial agencies will be trained in the use of the procedures, systems and
developed criteria so that institutions w ill be strengthencd in their capacity to appraise, monitor,
report, and assist communities to complete projects. The Project will support the district focus and
coordinate with DDCCs, health and education boards. Sectoral linkages will be maintained at
district, Provincial and National levels through DDCCs, PDCCs and the MPU Steering
Committee.
Poverty Monitoring Component
Overview
2.39   The experience under SRP I and the findings of several recent reports, including the
Poverty Assessment confirm the need for a systematic, integrated system of welfare or poverty
monitoring for Zambia. This component wvill support the establishment of such a capacity by



-25-
building on (i) the work carried out on with BAs and participatory poverty assessment; and (ii) the
support given to the CSO for the Priority Surveys.
2.40   The Project will support a Participatory poverty assessment sub-component through the
Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) which will have responsibility for firstly capturing and
collating the analysis which different social groups among the poor make of their own situation,
and secondly, assisting the empowerment of chronically poor communities to utilise micro-project
resources.
2.41   In close coordination with the above, the Project will also support the creation of a Living
Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) in the CSO as a sub-component which will collect and
disseminate data on individuals, households, and communities. To ensure the essential close
collaboration and reinforcement of linkages between the two sub-components, all the poverty
monitoring activities will be under the same cross-sectoral Poverty Monitoring Steering Committee.
Participatory poverty analysis sub-component
2.42   The experience of the Zambia Poverty Assessment has shown that the use of participatory
research methods provides a highly valuable complement to more conventional forms of poverty
analysis. The value of these approaches in the preparation of Poverty Assessments has become
widely recognised within the World Bank. The participatory content of these approaches derives
from the extent to which they can represent in a process of poverty analysis the needs, priorities,
perceptions and lived experience of the poor. The experience of the Poverty Assessment in Zambia
has showvn that such exercises are greatly enriched by including within them the analysis that
different social groups among the poor make of their own situation - its causes, as well as the key
constraints and opportunities that they face. The qualitative characteristic of the approach derives
from a stress on examining those aspects of poverty - and the processes that create and perpetuate
it - that are not easily subject to investigation through large-scale questionnaire survey approaches,
either because they are too complex, too locally specific, operate at levels which are not captured
by the unit of analysis used in a questionnaire (generally the household) or are simply not easily
subject to quantitative measurement. These include such critical dimensions as the social
characteristics of the poor; their vulnerability to dynamic processes of change (seasonal stress;
economic, environmental or political 'shocks'; long-term trends such as declining soil fertility) and;
the coping strategies that the poor use to deal with the negative effects of change.
2.43   The team of researchers who have successfully carried out three Beneficiary Assessments,
a Participatory Poverty Assessment and several ad hoc studies over the last years have constituted
a small non-governmental organization, the Participatory Assessment Group. The PAG will carry
out the participatory monitoring and empowerment sub-component in close consultation with users
groups and with the LCMU in CSO.
2.44   Broad objectives of the Poverty Assessment Group are to improve the poverty reduction
content of policies at the macro economic and sectoral levels; to improve the efficacy of safety net
activities; and to assist in the process of empowerment for poor communities to undertake their
own development. These objectives will be realised through the activities described in paragraphs
2.44 and 2.45
2.45   Participatory Poverty Monitoring Exercises. These are field based surveys using
Participatory Rapid Appraisal research techniques. The 1993 Poverty Assessment for Zambia will



-26-
be used as a model and it is anticipated that the same ten study sites will be used in order to
facilitate the monitoring objective. The participatory monitoring component will examine:
(a) Vulnerability. Taking into account the dynamic processes which threaten the
livelihoods of poor households and communities, whether through the negative effects
of long-term trends, inter-annual variation (e.g. drought), seasonal stress, or the impact
of various kinds of shocks'.
(b) Diversity. The experience of poverty, and the key constraints which people face vary
according to locality and according to the social status and position within the
household or community which an individual holds; and
(c) Institutional issues including the capacity to mobilise organisational and
institutional resources and the dxnamics of social organisation.
2.46   The poverty monitorirng component will coordinate with the LCMS in the design of survey
modules; report on living conditions and livelihoods of the rural and urban poor of Zambia; give
regular feedback from these communities on their perceptions of the impact of policy change and
their needs and priorities; and make policv recommcndations. As part of its work program the
PAG will undertake:
(a)  Beneficiary Assessments, regular qualitative and participatory monitoring and
evaluation for the MPU microprojects;
(b)  District Level Training and Community Participatory Planning, assisting the MPU
to improve its targeting to poor and vulnerable groups, including women and those
communities living in remote and inaccessible areas. The wvork will involve training
of district staff, identification of vulncrable communities and participatory planning
with those communities. The outcome of these activities will be to empower
communities to initiate their own development, including the identification, planning
and implementation of possible microprojects;
(c)  Thematic Studies, the demand for the skills offered by the PAG is high, and it is
intended that the PAG will also undertake studies identified by policy makers and
implementors, through the Study Fund. These studies will document the perceived
impact of policy changes on the lives of the rural and urban poor, and thus provide
policy indicators for macro and sectoral policy makers.
Living Conditions Monitoring Survey Sub-component
2.47   As discussed under 'lessons learned' in Chapter 1, there have been some significant
problems with the surveys sub-component of SRP I. At the CSO, in addition to the priority
surveys, a number of household surveys covering social issues have been carried out or are in the
planning stage. These surveys have often been launched on an ad-hoe basis, intended to give some
answers to urgent information needs, with not much emphasis given to coordination and
standardisation. For the statistical sub-component of this Project a new approach is proposed.
The CSO has agreed to establish the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) as a sustainable
and integral part of its monitoring activities. The Project wvill finance the first four rounds of the
LCMS on a sliding scale wvhich ends after the four years w'ith 100 percent GRZ support. The



-27-
LCMS will contain an annual modular survey as the core element, with additional ad-hoc modules
which will support areas of specific interest. The Norwvegian Government has indicated its interest
.n providing a grant administered by IDA to support this component (the Norwegian Grant). As a
condition of effectiveness for this grant, the Government through the CSO will present a workplan
and staff allocation plan for the LCMU in a form acceptable to IDA.
2.48   The LCMU wvill design an annual survey program (the LCMS), whose execution and
management is within the capacity of the CSO. The monitoring program will be designed on a
modular platformn. A core module, repeated annually, will include a set of priority indicators. As
need arises modules covering additional dimensions, or expanding on those already in the core
module, could be added, at the request of a Ministry responsible for a particular aspect of social
sector development, or other involved agency, either on an ad hoc basis, or at regular intervals. In
addition, specified target groups can be given special attention, both by extending the sample and
by giving them an extended questionnaire, specifically designed to describe their situation. In this
xxa\ the LCMS wvill provide informnation that monitors changes on an annual basis, as well as
having the flexibility to respond to urgent issues raised by users and other parties.
2.49   Other ongoing and planned survey activities will be coordinated with the proposed LCMS
in order to create a humanized, standardized and cost-effective way of producing social statistics.
A coordinated data base with information from  several surveys will provide the Zambian
Government, donor agencies, the research community, and the CSO itself with new insights for
improved policy decisions and targeted interventions to alleviate poverty. The annually monitoring
concept ensures that trend analyses, giving information on the effects of policy decisions and
external factors (drought etc.) on the welfare of households, will be possible.
2.50   To improve the survey quality, workshops on technical issues such as; questionnaire
design, measurement issues, data quality aspects, training of field staff will be an important part of
the preparatory work. A long term consultant *vith extensive experience in household survey
management will be assisting the CSO by wvorking Avith a counterpart for the first twvo years.
2.51   This system will give rapid, reliable information on key indicators, but will not necessarily
produce datasets for in-depth analysis on all components. The system will also serve as a national
baseline to which surveys covering e.g. vulnerable groups, special items or geographical areas
could be compared. The svstenm would give the different users a system of social indicators against
which to monitor development.
2.52   The conceptual framcework, managenment structure and more detailed description of the
methodologies to be employed in the two complementary components of the Poverty Monitoring
Component can be found in annexes 2 and 3.
2.53   The institutional framework and management structure of the LCMU and PAG is
designed to secure exchange and cooperation betwveen the different methodologies employed.
Mutual representation in the technical committees of the two units will secure exchange of
information on activities, plans, findings and research questions. The LCMS program needs input
from the PAG particularly in the planning stage of a survey. The Participatory Assessment of 1993
did follow-up studies and provided in-depth explanations to several questions that was raised
during the analysis of the PS 1. Through this experience a good relationship and a cooperative
tradition is already established between the participatory and the quantitative monitoring
communities. The proposed institutional framework further encourages this through formal links,



-28-
but the informal exchange and mutual cooperation is just as important and will hopefully evolve
over time.
Poverty Analysis
2.54   There is a wealth of data in Zambia which are not analyzed and made available to potential
users. The public institutions, ministries and policy makers need to be further involved in the
identification of research areas, the commissioning of studies and involved in the study cycle to
improve their ownership of the studies and their results. Research teams need more guidance in
research methodologies, research topics, analytical skills and presentation of study findings. To
assist in such capacity building the Slitdy Fiuncd, initiated in SRP 1, will continue to be supported by
the Project.
The Study Fund
2.55   The main concern will be to support research and studies which focus on policy related
poverty issues. The Study Fund will aim to improve communication between the research
community and the policy makers and implementors. It will encourage the analysis of existing data
so that it is presented in a usable form to the policy makers and program implementors, thereby
assisting in the formulation of policies and implementation of programs.
2.56   Studies considered by the Study Fund will be concerned with:
(a) analysis of current policy, mainly in the social sectors; and
(b) analysis of the impact of the structural adjustment program on vulnerable groups;
(c) analysis of poverty issues.
2.57   The Studv Fund will bc administered by a Research Advisor, supported by a secretary.
The functions of the Research Advisor wvill be to involve the policy makers to a greater extent in
research identification and implementation so that studies of contemporary issues are
commissioned; identify' up to date data sources and availability for analysis; advise researchers
and reviewers on methodological and analytical issues; organise and coordinate research
workshops and seminars for on-going studies; and facilitate dissemination of study results.
Research methodology workshops may be held as well as training in data analysis and
presentation. The Study Fund publications - the Guidelines and Research Manual - will assist
researchers to undertake better focused orientated research (available from project files).
2.58   The Study Fund will administer the finance of the studies, provide advice and some
logistical support. The Study Fund Steering Committee will approve or reject studies, determine
priority research areas, identify data sources and assist with the dissemination of the research
results. The donor, non governmental and research communities and Governnent of Republic of
Zambia line ministries will be represented on the Study Fund Steering Committee. The Study Fund
Committee will report the results of studies, ongoing studies and study proposals to the SRP
Coordinating conmmittee on a six monthly basis. Members of the Steering Committee will indicate
areas of particular concern to policy at the same time.



-29-
2.59   The Study Fund will finance government agencies, non-governmental organizations,
research institutions, private constancy groups and individuals to undertake relevant studies and
will make available the resources so that the capacity of institutions to perform analysis is
strengthened. The Study Fund through the Research Advisor, will provide researchers with advice
on research methods; sampling techniques; analysis; report writing and dissemination.
2.60   Small Studies. The Study Fund will continue to fund small studies on a demand led basis.
Studies proposed by local researchers which analyze existing data may be considered up to an
amount of US$15,000. Analysis of existing data will be encouraged, especially that of data
produced under the survey sub-component of SRP I and the poverty monitoring component of this
Project. The main social sector ministries, health, education and community development may use
the facilities of the Study Fund to analyze existing data in order to enable them to target their
programs more effectively toward the poor and vulnerable. For example, the Study Fund has
recently approved a study proposed by the Ministry of Health on the effects of the user fees on the
accessibility of health services.
2.61   Priority.Studies. These may involve amounts above the ceiling of the small studies and
the engagement of international consultants. Priority Studies will be identified and proposed by the
relevant Ministry and approved by the Study Fund Committee. Currently the following have been
identified: Beneficiary Assessments of social safety net activities; a study of changes in living
conditions using Priority Surveys I and 2 data; and a study on nutrition and household food
security.
2.62   Study Cycle. Study proposals are made by government institutions, University, local
consultancies, NGOs and private individuals. The proposal must include an abstract and describes
in detail the study objectives, hypothesis, methods to be used, secondary data sources, primnary data
collection sampling methods (if any), models of analysis, study activities, the capability of the
intended research team and a budget. A detailed literature review must be included so that the gaps
in existing research or literature are identified. The Study Fund secretariat screens the proposal to
ensure that the proposal complies with Study Fund criteria and that the methods to be used and the
budget proposed are realistic before presenting to the Study Fund Committee. The committee
determines if the proposal complies with Study Fund criteria, and the relevant Ministry is invited to
comment on the relevance of the proposed study to contemporary policy issues. If the outcome of
these initial assessments is positive, the Committee assigns expert reviewers, one from the policy
making Ministry and one to review the methodological aspects of the Study. Through this process
of review and the guidance provided by these identified experts, the proposal is developed before
being finally approved by the Study Fund Committee. The first allocation of funds represents one
third of the research fees as well as one third of the reimbursable costs. The remaining research
fees are paid when final rcport is accepted and further allocations of reimbursable costs when
advances are accounted for. The reviewers assigned to the study are expected to hold study
seminars and assist the researchers w'ith analysis and methodological issues. The reviewers also
review the draft and approve the final report before it is submitted to the Study Committee. Upon
completion of a study, the researches are expected to organize a dissemination workshop, funded
by the Study Fund.



-30-
C. Project Coordination and Management
2.63   The three components of the Social Recovery Project II will be coordinated by a Project
Coordination Committee chaired by the Pcrmancnt Secretary for Planning in the Office of the
President and consisting of high level policy makers from sector ministries plus representatives
from the individual component steering committees. The Project Coordinator in the MPU will be
the secretary of the Coordination Committee. The Committee would meet infrequently, probably
twice a year. Each component will be led by a Steering Committee. For the community initiatives
component, this wvill be the existing MPU Steering Committee, for the analysis component this will
be the existing Study Fund committee, and for the monitoring component it will be a newly created
committee with cross-sectoral representation from data users and producers. The overall
responsibility for management of the Project is vested in the Project Coordinator assisted by the
Financial Controller for financial matters. An accountant will be financed for the CSO for
administration of the Nonvegian Grant for this sub-component.
D. Sustainability
2.64   The Micro-Projects Unit. The MPU. as supported by IDA, will not be sustained beyond
the life of the Project, but the philosophy of self-help and the procedures and criteria developed in
order to implement and support community initiatives will be. The skills learnt by communities
during the project to use and account for funds, build, rehabilitate and maintain infrastructure will
be sustained by the communities themselves. The transfer of skills to district staff, especially in the
appraisal and monitoring of projects wvill ensure that both the approach and process of the MPU
are sustained. The MPU will assist other agencies in the development of criteria and
implementation processes. It is likely that at the mid-term review of this project, the capacity of
district agencies will have been sufficiently strengthened to allow the DDCC, with funds from the
proposed District Development Fund, to gradually assume the functions of the MPU using its
approach and processes. The decision to take this step, and planning the transition, will be
important components of the mid-term review.
2.65   Completed Micro-Projects. Sustainabilitv of the micro-projects is assured by the fact that
the community implementing the project has contributed substantially to it and has an increased
sense of ownership. Every micro-project w ill have an established and functioning maintenance
committee. Since the government agencies have also been involved with the development and the
implementation of each micro-project from the beginning, the maintenance of the service delivery is
assured (see also para 2.28).
2.66   Participatory Poverty Assessment Group. The PAG will be sustained through the
institutional strengthening. By the end of the Project the PAG would have proven itself as a capable
institution producing policy relevant output. If this is not the case, there is no point in trying to
sustain the institution. Gradually, the PAG wvill bccome independent of project subsidization as
other institutions in and outside Government fund specific modules or data collection exercises. It
is expected that this will be achieved through a support programme which will gradually diminish
over the life of the project. Before the mid-term review of the Project, the PAG will prepare a
business plan for making the unit sustainable without further subsidy from this Project after the
fourth year. As the PAG evolves to'ards sustainability the Project may buy its services to



-31-
continue the work required for SRP monitoring and implementation. A reasonable time will be
required to allow the PAG to develop a track record in participatory monitoring as there is still
limited knowledge of these methodologies and their relevance in Zambia.
2.67   Living Costs Monitoring Unit. The LCMS will be sustained by increasing the share of
government funding of the LCMU's activities over the life of the project. The Project will finance
the first two years of collection of the core module information, by which time the Government is
expected to take over financing. The Government is projected to take over the full costs of the
LCMU' activities by the end of the fourth round of data collection. By this time the capacity of the
LCMU will have been built and the monitoring program should be able to sustain itself.
2.68   Study Fund. As a unit within NCDP, the Study Fund will not be sustained. The capacity
of the researchers, the reviewers, the policy makers and the implementors to identify critical
research areas, implement a research project. analyze data in a logical and focused manner and act
on the findings wvill be sustained. An institution which may absorb the ideas and approach to the
process of research developed by the Study Fund will be identified before the mid-tern review. One
possibility is to transfer the functions of the Study Fund to the Social Policy Research Institute,
recently established in the Universitv of Zambia or similar institution.
E. Special Project Issues
2.69   Environmental Issues. As The Project has been rated C, no environmental assessment is
necessary. Environmental concerns, based on the National Environmental Action Plan will be built
into micro-project appraisal and monitoring criteria as spelt out in the Regional Officers Manual
available from project files. Overall it is expected that the project will have a positive effect on the
environment due to the eligibility of environmental micro-projects, and the focus on water and
sanitation in the infrastructure rehabilitation micro-projects. There will be no significant negative
impact from the infrastructure micro-projects as they are concerned with rehabilitation not new
construction.
2.70   Gender issues. All components of the project incorporate gender concerns. During
identification of micro-projects, appraisal criteria include a review of the involvement of women
and other marginalized groups in the identification, implementation and maintenance of the project.
Microprojects benefiting poor women will receive higher priority. The microproject database will
maintain gender-disagregated data allowing gender-specific monitoring of the impact of the
community initiatives component. The collection of survey and participatory data will also be
gender-desegregated. The combination of household survey and more participatory data collection
will allow a better understanding of inter- and intra-household dynamics. Finally studies for
consideration by the Poverty Analysis component will receive higher priority if they include gender
aspects.



-32-
F. Reporting and Reviews
2.71   The MPU will coordinate the production of an annual report on project implementation no
later than June I of the followving year. Contributions will be made from the CSO, PAG and the
Study Fund. The outline of the report is prcscntcd in Annex 6. Based on this review the MPU will
invite IDA, other interested donors, NGOs and Government agencies to an annual review workshop
to be held no later than July I of every year (beginning in 1996 for the year 1995).
2.72   A mid-term review will be held not less than 30 months and not more than 36 months after
The Project becomes effective, or when 50 percent of funds have been committed, whichever comes
first. For the mid-term review the Government has agreed to commission independent reviews of
each component and will summarize the findings and recommendation in a report submitted by the
Project Coordination Committee to the donors and IDA. In preparing these reviews, consultations
will be held with all relevant line Ministries and other agencies involved in the social sectors. Based
on these recommendations, Government will prepare an action plan for discussion and adoption at
the mid-term review which will enable the MPU to be phased out as a separate entity on
completion of the Project, and the transfer of its functions, skills and procedures to other agencies.
2.73   Each component implementing agency will submit a report to the Project Policy
Coordination committee everv six months, describing project progress and highlighting specific
issues that have arisen in implementation for which policy guidance is required (See Annex 6 for
outline). These reports will be summarized by the Project Coordinator, as secretary to the Policy
Coordinating Committee. The steering committees for the components will meet every quarter to
review progress based on reports from the implementing agencies.



-33-
Chapter 3: PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
3.1    The total cost of the Project is US$47.7 million, of which IDA will finance US$30 million
equivalent. The size of the community initiatives component of the project is estimated by
appraising the capacity of communities and the MPU to complete ongoing microprojects and
process new applications respectively. Based on the experience of first program, an input of 4 new
microprojects per quarter per province is estimated to be possible. Assuming the mean value of
microprojects as US$75,000, (based on the first project), investment would be US$54 million
over 5 years for the total of 9 provinces. SRP2 will take up approximately two thirds of this
capacity with a community initiatives component of US$35.8 million equivalent, and Government
is negotiating wvith the EU to cover the remainder under a separate intervention. No allowance is
made for contingencies as the number and size of activities funded would be revised to fit within
the existing financing framework. The nominal exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the life of
the Project so as to maintain a constant real exchange rate.
B. Financing
Table 3.1: Financing Plan
US$ Million
IDA   Beneficiaries  GRZ   SIDA  Norway    Total
Community Initiatives       22.50       10.80    2.50    0.00    0.00      35.80
Inst. Building & Support     7.20        0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00        8.10
Poverty Monitoring LCMS)     0.00        0.00    0.50    0.00    1.40        1.90
Poverty Monitoring (PAG)     0.10        0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00       0.80
Poverty Analysis (Study      0.20        0.00    0.00    0.30    0.60        1.10
Fund)
TOTAL                       30.00       10.80    3.90    1.00    2.00      47.70
* The Beneficiaries column indicates the contributions made by communities in cash, materials or
labor for their micro-projects
3.2   The total costs for SRP2 will be financed as follows: IDA will fund 63 percent of total,
Government 8 percent, beneficiaries 23 percent (25 percent of the costs of the micro-projects) and
donors the remainder (see Table 3.1). Nonvay will be funding the LCMS component of the Poverty
Monitoring component as a follow-up to their funding of the surveys under SRP 1. SIDA has
agreed to fund the PAG component of the Poverty Monitoring, and these two donors will also be
jointly funding the Poverty Analysis component (Study Fund) with IDA.



-34-
3.3    The Project will finance two long term external consultants: (i) an extension of contract
for the current advisor to the MPU for another twvo years, based upon the positive experience of
SRP 1. In this project, the consultant will assist in completing the restructuring of MPU
procedures, and in moving management of the community initiatives component to District
Government; (ii) based on a recommendation stemming from the CSO component Evaluation
Report, and the negative experience with a number of short-term TA assignments for the CSO, a
long term advisor, w ith a two year term, wvill assist in setting up the new Poverty Monitoring
Component. Both contracts will contain provisions for the transfer of skills, and will have the
primary aim of building local capacity.
C. Procurement
3.4    This Project is undetermined for procurement purposes; the exact mix of goods and
services to be financed by the Credit will depend on the results of demand-driven microproject
identification. Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the IDA guidelines, Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, in particular Section 3.15, Community
Participation in Procurement. Project Committees are responsible for procurement of goods,
services and civil works under the micro-projects with support from the MPU. This worked very
well under SR.P 1. Monitoring and audit procedures for procurement by microproject committees
will follow the guidelines established under SRP 1, and are detailed in the Regional Officer's
Implementation Manual. The MPU is responsible for procurement of goods and services for other
components. Implementation staff have been trained in IDA procurement procedures and will
receive ongoing support from the World Bank's Southern Africa Departmental Procurement Unit
throughout the life of The Project.
3.5    Assessment of Procurement under SRPI. IDA has appraised the MPU's capacity to
manage procurement and found it fully satisfactory. The auditors have found no irregularities in
procurement performance over the lifc of SRP I. Even so, the Government has proposed to assess
the efficiency of the procurement procedures followed. Should any changes in procurement
procedures be identified, these will be incorporated in The Project.
3.6    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2. International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) will be carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines for contracts with a cost of
$500,000 or more for civil works and for contracts with an estimated cost of $ 100,000 or more for
goods. Domestic preference will be employed where applicable in these procurements as per IDA
guidelines. ICB is unlikely to be used for civil works as most of the civil works contracts are small
and scattered, however where desirable from an efficiency standpoint contracts would be combined
to allow ICB. ICB is likely to be used for bulk procurement for equipment for micro-projects as
well as for equipment and vehicles for the MPU and the CSO.
3.7    National Competitive Bidding (NCB), following procedures acceptable to IDA and using
standard documents approved under SRPI, will be carried out for contracts with a cost of less than
US$500,000 for civil works and less than US$ 100,000 for goods. This category is not expected to
exceed US$8.6 million total during the life of the project. The civil works to be carried out by this
process will be upgrading and major rehabilitation of mainly urban schools. They are not likely to



-35-
attract international interest, but if foreign firms wish to participate they should be allowed to do
so.
Table 3.2: Procurement Table
ICB      NCB      Community      Other       Not IDA        Total
flnanced
1.   Microprojects: Civil Works  0.0       6.6        12.5         0.0         12.2          31.3
(0.0)    (5.9)      (10.6)       (0.0)        (0.0)         (16.5)
2.   Microproject: Goods         0.3       1.2         1.4         3.0          0.0           5.9
(0.3)    (1.2)       (1.3)        (2.6)       (0.0)         (5.4)
3.   Microproject training services  0.0   0.0         0.0         0.6          0.0           0.6
(0.0)    (0.0)       (0.0)        (0.6)       (0.0)         (0.6)
4.   Consultant Services (inc. hiPU  0.0   0.0         0.0         2.1          0.0           2.1
conlsultantservices)       (0.0)     (0.0)       (0.0)       (2.1)        (0.0)         (2.1)
5.   Capacity Building           0.0       0.0         0.0         1.1          0.4           1.5
(0.0)    (0.0)       (0.0)        (1.1)        (0.0)         (1.1)
6.   Studies and Surveys         0.0       0.0        0.0          0.5          3.0           3.5
(0. )     (0.0)      (0.0)        (1.5)       (0.0)         (1.5)
7.   Vehicles & Equipment        0.4       0.8         0.0         0.4          0.0           1.6
(0.4)    (0.8)       (0.0)        (0.4)       (0.0)         (1.6)
8.  Incremental Recurrent Costs of    0.0  0.0        0.0          1.2          0.0           1.2
MPU                        (0.0)     (0.0)       (0.0)       (1.2)        (0.0)         (1.2)
Total                       0.7       8.6        13.9         8.9         15S6          47.7
(Total IDA)                (0.7)     (7.9)      (11.9)       (9.5)        (0.0)         (30.0)
3.8     Prudent national shopping, obtaining at least three quotes from reliable suppliers may be
used for contracts wvith an estimated value of less than US$50,000 equivalent for goods upto an
aggregate amount of US$4.8 million. This procedure has already been used effectively by the
SRP I. Goods procured by Community Microproject Committees include classroom furniture,
blackboards, classroom supplies etc. As far as possible contracts for supplies and equipment will
be pooled and carried out by the MPU to ensure cost savings. This is indicated in Table 3.2 by the
microprojects procurement for goods being divided between 'community'and 'other'.
3.9     For the infrastructure (microprojects) sub-components, community contribution and
involvement will be encouraged. SRP I showed that greater community involvement better ensures
the sustainability of the microprojccts, facilitates the use of local expertise and materials, and
results in application of labour intensive technologies appropriate to the local conditions. To ensure
the continuation of this positive development, community microproject committees will manage
their own projects, hiring skilled artisans and purchasing materials using either local shopping or
direct contracting procedures, proven to be both efficient and expedient. Experience in Zambia has
shown that it is not cost-effective to do bulk procurement of building supplies and then distribute
these to sites. Where practical, i.e. where more than one local building contractor can be identified,
microproject committees will be required by the MPU acting through the Regional Officer, to
subject local building contracts to competitive procedures. These procurement processes may be
applied for contracts with an estimated value of less than US$50,000 equivalent, (upto an
aggregate value of no more than US$12.5 million). Works in this category shall be procured under
lumpsum, fixed price contracts.
3.10    Itcms not subjected to competitive bidding include per diem, fuel, and other administrative
expenses, not to exceed an aggregate of US$0.6 million equivalent. These will be procured using
local procedures acceptablc to IDA, and established during SRP I.



-36-
3.11    Consultant services, (including support of MPU implementation consultants described
under 'Incremental and recurring costs' in Tablcs 3.2 and 3.3), studies, and training will be
procured following IDA guidelines "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981". IDA will finance consultant services for a total
cost of US$2.1 million . IDA will finance technical skills training to meet community based needs
to an aggregate value of US$0.6 million equivalent. Such training course might include well-
digging, financial management, preventative maintenance workshops etc. In addition IDA will
finance capacity building to an aggregate of US$1. 1 million equivalent through quarterly training
of Regional Officers, Provincial and District seminars, microproject pre-identification and launch
workshops as recommended in various evaluations of SRPI.
3.12    Tender Documentation Format. IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all
ICB financed by the credit. For NCB the Government prepared standard documentation approved
as acceptable to IDA during SRP I will be used.
3.13   Procurement Review Thresholds. During project supervision, bidding packages for IDA
financed contracts above thresholds of US$250,000 for Nvorks and US$ 100,000 for goods would
be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The threshold for prior review of consultant services
would be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, US$50,000 for contracts with
individuals and all sole source contracts and terms of reference regardless of contract value. All
other contracts will be subject to selective post review. The MPU will be required to maintain
proper records for easy review by IDA. It is expected that two thirds of NCB contracts for works
and one third of NCB contracts for goods will be subject to post award review.
D. Disbursements
Table 3.3: Disbursemcnt Schedule
Amount Allocated    Percent of expenditures to be
(US$ m. equivalent)  financed
1. Comrmnunity Initiatives (microprojects)            19.7        90 percent of MPU expenditures
2. Training, workshops, consultant services, studics   4.8         100 percent
under the poverty analysis component participatory
poverty monitoring sub-componeint
3. Vehicles, equipment and civil works for the MPlU    1.4         100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local
ex-factory costs, and 80 percent of
other local expenditures
4. Incremental Recurrent Costs                         1.1         100 percent
5. Project Preparation Fund                            0.3
6. Unallocated                                         2.7
Total                     30.0
3.14   It is estimated that the IDA credit wvill be disbursed over a period of 5 years, from July
1995 through the June 2000, with procurement and disbursements completed by June 30, 2000
(completion date) and December 31, 2000 (closing date), respectively. The proposed allocation of



-37-
the credit is showvn in Table 3.3. Disbursement for microprojects will be made based on
disbursements from the MPU to Project Committees. To ensure that the IDA Credit will not
finance t;.xes, IDA wvill only disburse 90 percent of MPU expenditures. In addition to the MPU
expenditures on mWroprojects, the communitics thcmselves finance on average 25 percent of the
microproject estimated cost. Therefore, a total of 35 percent of a microproject's costs are not
financed by IDA. This difference more than adequately covers the proposed VAT of 20 percent on
goods. The total estimated contribution of Government is US$0.5 million equivalent per year over
the- life of the project. This will cover the 10 percent not financed by IDA. At negotiations,
assurances will be souight from Government that this obligation will be met annually. For 1995,
Government has ,.lready disbursed half of this amount to the MPU. Incremental recurrent costs
include the costs necessary for the operation of the MPU and the Study Fund, including, but not
limited to: salaries for non-professional staff, fees, per diems, travel costs, benefits (including
housing and medical), office supplies, fuel and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of equipment,
telephc ne and other communication charges, and office rent. Other utilities will be paid by the
Government. Pavment of 100% of incremental costs is justified since this is a time limited
program, whose costs will disappear at completion.
3.15  In order to ensure that counterpart funding is available to pay local taxes, Government has
agreed to establish a Project Fund which will be maintained at a minimum of US $ 100,000
equivalen-, and will be replenished on a quarterly basis. It will be a responsibility of the Project
Coordinator to prepare estimates of annual project expenditures, and advise Government on the
amount to be included in the annual budget estimates. An account for this fund will be maintained
by the MPU as part of the project accounts.
3.16   All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for
expenditures for training, workshops, recurrent costs, and for contracts with a value of
US$ 100,000 or less for goods and services and a value of US$250,000 or less for civil works for
which reimbursement may be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting
documentation will be retained by the MPU and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. Estimated disbursements by IDA fiscal year are shown
in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: Disbursement Profile
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal       FY96           FY97          FY98           FY99          FY2000
Year
Annual             3.0            9.0            9.0            6.0            3.0
Cumulative         3.0            12.0          21.0           27.0           30.0
Cumulative %       10%           40%            70%            90%            100%



-38-
3.17   A special account for US$3 million would be made available to the MPU for payments of
eligible expenditures. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted to
IDA every month under normal circumstances but no later than every three months. Withdrawal
applications for direct payment from the Credit Account may be submitted for expenditures above
US$100,000 equivalent.
3.18   The Norwcgian Government will make available a grant to finance the living conditions
monitoring component, and part of the Study Fund. The grant will be administered by IDA. A
special aCcoll.t x\ ill be established to be administered by the MPU.
3.19   The Swedish Govemment will make available a grant to finance the Participatory
Assessment Group and part of the Study Fund. The grant wvill be administered by IDA. A special
account will be established to be administered by the MPU.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.20   As soon as possible after the end of the Zambian financial year, but no later than six
months after its completion, the Government has confirmed that it will present audit reports of the
special account and the project accounts with a separate opinion on the use of the special account
and SOEs. The audits will be carried out by an independent auditing firm with qualifications and
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. In auditing the project accounts, the auditors will pay
special attention to verifying the reliability of SOEs, and to the internal controls and procedures
involved in the preparation of SOEs. Project Committee's accounts will be included in the audit on
a random sample basis. The costs of the audits are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
credit. Audit reports should be produced for each component covering the use of SOEs,
management of the special account and other matters. The audit report for the community
initiatives component should include a review of microproject committee's performance on a
sample basis.
3.21   Project accounts vill be established and maintained by the MPU. A SpecialAccount will
be opened for this project and maintained with a commercial bank by the MPU. The maximum
balance in the Special Account will be US$3 million, which will cover about 3 months of
expenditures at full operation. The MPU has performed vcry well in managing several special
accounts under implementation of SRP I and other donor funded projects.
3.22   Audit. The Government's performance in auditing project accounts under projects in
Zambia has generally been acceptable and the Government is in full compliance on other social
sector projects. The quality of the audits has also been satisfactory. The audits under the SRP1
have generally been satisfactory and have been completed on time. An exception was an audit of
the CSO component of SRP 1, which criticized the CSO's financial management capacity. The
Government took immediate action and transferred the financial management to the MPU, and
since then the audit reports for the component have been satisfactory and unqualified.



-39-
Chapter 4: PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
4.1    Community Initiatives: The benefits of the community initiative component of the Social
Recovery Fund xwill be evident of many levels, including the following:
(a) improved infrastructures in health, education and econornic infrastructure;
(b) improvements in service delivery;
(c) increased capacities of community based organizations, district, provincial and
national government and NGO institutions to plan, appr.ise and complete capital
projects;
(d) recognition of critical role and value of self help in development and maintenance of
that development;
(e) rekindled spirit of self help, increased sense of ownership, accountability, participation
in decision making of their own development and empowerment of implementing
communities; and
(f) improved governance and accountability.
4.2    Poverty Monitoring. The specific benefits associated with the monitoring activities are as
follows:
(a) Improved poverty reduction content and impact of macro and sectoral policies;
(b) improved poverty reduction impact of programs and projects;
(c) enhanced capacity within Zambia for participatory research and planning, both
through the creation of the PAG and its training activities (likely to be focused at the
District level);
(d) the establishment in the LCMS of a statistical benchmark against which to assess
changes in the living conditions of different social groups;
(e) improved coordination of quantitative and participatory research and development
networks in Zambia; and
(f) establishment of a model, potentially replicable in other African countries, for the
integration of qualitative and participatory approaches into a poverty monitoring
system at the national level.



-40-
4.3    Poverty Analysis (Study Fund): The benefits of the poverty analysis will include the
folloving:
(a) appropriate and relevant policies;
(b) improved targeting of programs and policies, for the poor and vulnerable;
(c) improved research capacity; and
(d) more rigorous and analytical studies with appropriate and usable recommendations.
B. Monitorable Indicators
4.4    Community Initiatives. The benefits vill be monitored using indicators which will reflect
MPU output itself, the processes being developed by the project, the output of projects and the
impact of the micro-projects.
(a) MPU Output: disbursements, numbers of beneficiaries, numbers of projects ongoing,
numbers of completed projects, length of time between bench marks (application, desk
appraisal, field appraisal, approval, allocations, completion), numbers of workshops
and desk appraisal meetings will be indicators used to monitor the MPU output.
(b) Process Indicators: vill include the involvement of district staff and communities,
speed of completion, turn over of projects, technical quality of projects, financial
reporting by communities, reporting by district to provincial to national staff on MPU
projects and increased maintenance of infrastructure by communities.
(c) Project Output: output indicators vill include numbers of schools, clinics etc.
rehabilitated or constructed. km of road built, numbers of beneficiaries by age and sex
etc.
(d) Impact of the community initiatives: wvill be evaluated using the appraisal forms as
a bascline to establish the changes which have occurred as a result of the project. The
indicators mav be the change in numbers of pupils attending school, change in
numbers of trained teachers, grade 7 passes, change in levels of production, change in
volume of traffic, changes in income, household food security, personal security,
change in frequency of disease distance to safe drinking water etc.
(e) Beneficiary Assessment: the MPI) will contract the PAG to undertake a Beneficiary
Assessment 12 months after the Project starts.
4.5    Participatory Assessment Group. Monitorable indicators of success for the PAG 'Aill
focus on policy impact and evidence of widespread dissemination. These wvill include:
(a) reference to reports and other disseminated material from the PAG in policy
documents produced within government, operational NGOs and donor agencies;
(b) use of outputs provided by the PAG in reorienting and fine-tuning the design of survey
activities carried out by thc LCMU;



-41-
(c) demand in terms of requests from policy makers for specific investigations on policy-
related issues from the PAG;
(d) uptake of recommendations in PAG reports by policy makers in government, donor
agencies and NGOs;
(e) demand in terms of requests from operational agencies involved in poverty reduction
projects for services of pre-project identification, monitoring or training - and uptake
of recommendations provided to such projects by the PAG, or adoption of planning
methodologies in which the agencies have received training.
4.6    Living Conditions Monitoring Survey. The LCMS will be monitored through the time
elapsed between the collection of data and the publishing of the annual survey report, and the
numbe of requests made for data from the survey.
4.7    Poverty Analysis (Study Fun(l) Component. The output of this component will be
monitored through dishursements, number of studies approved and completed, number of
researchers involved. The processes being developed will be monitored through the number of
seminars and commissioned studies.
C. Project Risks
4.8    The risks are.:
(a) That the Government of Zambia will fail to meet its financial commitments to the
project while budgetary constraints put pressure on all sectors. Inspite of these
pressures, the Govcrnment met its financial commitment to the project in full for 1994.
As SRPI demonstrated its approach assists communities to undertake their own
development, interest in the project, and commitment by Government increased.
(b) Political pressures may be brought to bear on the staff of the MPU, especially in the
run-up to the 1996 elections. The danger of being politically highjacked is reduced by
the MPU's strict adherence to its technocratic criteria in the selection of micro-
projects. The decision whether to fund a microproject or not lies with the District
Appraisal Committee and not with MPU staff alone.
(c) The community self help spirit may be undermined by other programmes and projects
not using the same clear criteria in project selection nor insisting on self help. The
Project will assist the Government in the development and implementation of a policy
which would eliminate such a risk.
(d) External shocks (drought, economic) to the implementing communities may result in
weakening their capacity to contribute to their projects. The drought of 1991/2 showed
that communities continued to contribute to their projects. In some cases, unskilled
labour was paid for and this may be considered on a case by case basis.



-42-
(e) Poor technical quality of the wvorks could undermine the sustainability of the micro-
projects and community participation. This is being addressed by the significant
increase in technical monitoring and supervision. The Project Implementation Manual
will be made available to all micro-project committees. Regional Officers will be
trained in technical appraisal skills to ensure better quality at entry.
4.9    The risks especially associated wvith the participatory poverty monitoring component are
the following:
(a) the PAG may fail to constitute itself as a cohesive and effective non-governmental
development organisation;
(b) key staff (including trained researchers) may leave the PAG to take up positions
elsewhere; and
(c) the policy context in Zambia becomes too unstable to allow for incorporation of inputs
of information and recommendations from the PAG into processes of planning and
policy formulation.
These risks are minimised by the interest being shown in the PAG by Government and Donors,
and the high demand for its services.
4.10   The risks associated with the Living Conditions Monitoring Survey are that:
(a) the capacity of the Central Statistics Office will be inadequate to sustain the
component once the external support is withdrawvn, and
(b) the CSO budget may not provide adequate resources for effective implementation of
data collection and analysis, thereby reducing the credibility of the instrument
Under the Public Services Reform Program, Government recognises the importance of the CSO,
and is gradually increasing its budgetarv support.
4.1 1   The risk associated with the povertv anal)ysis component is that the local research
community and the policv makers do not make use of the facilities offered by the poverty analysis
component, which could undermine its existence. The risk is minimised by the high profile it
currentlv enjovs, continued advertising of its outputs and sensitisation to its existence.
4.12   A final risk to the smooth implementation of the Project would be the possibility of
Government yielding to pressures from Donors to modify procedures. Slow disbursements, erratic
release of donor funds, and burdensome reporting requirements occasionally hampered
implementation of SRP I. This risk will be dealt wvith b) ensuring that sufficient funding is
available to the MPU from IDA and Government sources.



-43-
Chapter 5: AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Conditions
5.1    As a condlition of effcctivencss of thc IDA credit, the Government will have demonstrated
that at least half of the 1995 budget allocation for the Social Recovery Program has been disbursed
to the MPU (pars 2.3); and
5.2    As a condition of effectiveness of the Norvegian Grant for tue LCMU, the Government
will have presented a report showing all the proposed and ongoing activities for the CSO including
detailed work-prograrns and coordination mechanisms in a form and with a content acceptable to
IDA (para 2.46).
B. Agreements
5.3    To ensure smooth implementation of the project, the Government has agreed to:
(a) designate the MPU as the responsible agency for implementation of the program and
of the IDA credit in support thercof (para 2.14);
(b) staff the MPU with persons with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to
IDA throughout project implementation (para 2.15);
(c) carry out all procurement (i) using standard bidding and contract documents for the
project and (ii) according to the arrangements laid out in paras. 3.4 - 3.12;
(d) ensure that all applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully
documented, except for expenditures for training, workslhops, recurrent costs, and for
contracts with a value of US$ 100,000 or less for goods and services and a value of
US$250,000 or less for civil works for which reimbursement may be made against
certified statements of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will be retained
by the MPU and will be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions
and project auditors (para 3.16)
(e) ensure that the tax obligations of the project will be met annually through the timely
provision of the Goverrnmcnt counterpart funding (para 3.14);
(f) prior to June I of every year (beginning in 1996), present a progress report on
implementation of the Program (as outlined in Annex 6);
(g) adopt Project reporting, auditing and monitoring procedures acceptable to IDA and
prepare and submit in a timelv manner financial reports and external audits no later
than six months after the end of the financial year (para 3.17); and



-44-
(h) carry out a mid-term review of the project not less than 30 months and not more than
36 months after the project becomes effective o: when 50 percent of the funds have
been committed, whichever comes first. At the mid-term review, Government will
present a plan for IDA's approval which will set out how the functions and
administrative machinery of the Social Recovery Project will be maintained after
completion of the Project (para 2.71).
C. Recommendation
5.4    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US $30 million equivalent.



45-
Annex I
The Social Recovery Project
Monitoring and Analysis             Microproject Component
Component
Community Initatives)
- -   ~~  ~  /  l     (Micro Projects) |
/ 
, ving        Poverty and           Regional Network
Conditions    Beneficiary
:' 'Surveys -     Assessments         L
PAG    J
, . XSRP Poverty and
S Project MoniCommittee
'\ O                       ~~~~~~Microprojects Unit
'\/ .   4            /         ~~~(MU)
I    Poverty Analysis- 
iT'he Study Fund_ 
Steering Committee
GONVT/Donors/NGOs/
University



-46-
Annex 2
THE PARTICIPATORY ASSESSMENT GROUP (PAG)
I.     Background
1.     The use of participatory and qualitative research methods and rapid rural or urban
appraisals are becoming increasingly common. Many donors, NGOs and governument Ministries
are now utilising participatory and qualitative research techniques to ensure that project
interventions are more closcly attuned to the needs and preferences of the poor, thereby improving
the chances of project effectiveness and impact. The Study Fund component of SRP 1
commissioned three Beneficiary Assessments for the monitoring and evaluation of SRP
microproject activities from the perspective of the beneficiaries. Assessments were carried out at
regular intervals from 1992 onwards and results fed into the improvement of SRP procedures and
systems.'9 Material from the Beneficiary Assessments have been utilised by other donor agencies,
NGOs and GRZ. The beneficiary assessment team has also undertaken the Participatory Poverty
Assessment, the results of which formed Volume 5 of the Poverty Assessment for Zambia.20
2.     The experience of the SRP-sponsored Beneficiary Assessments and the Zambia Poverty
Assessment has shown that the use of participatory research methods provides a highly valuable
complement to more conventional forms of programme monitoring and poverty analysis and in
itself plays an important role, contributing to community empowerment in the context of
microproject management.
3.     The Participatory Assessment Group has grown out of these experiences, and will provide
a means of continuing these valuable functions in a climate which will encourage their long term
sustainabilitv after the project is completed.
II.    Introduction
4.     The Participatorv Assessment Group has been registered as an independent Zambian non-
profit organisation. The following workplan refers only to the PAG's activities for the second
Social Recovery Project in Zambia. It is assumed that at times when not required for the following
workplan PAG personnel will be free to wvork on other PAG activities aside from those sponsored
by the project. This workplan is seen as indicative - meaning that the program is open for
adaptation in the light of the evolution of the priorities of the SRP2 as determined by its managers.
Ill.    Objectives
5.     The specific objectives and responsibilities of the PAG with regard to SRP 2 are:
'9Beneficiary Assessment. Phase 1(1992): Phase 11 (1993); Phase III (1994), Rural Development Studies
Bureau, Lusaka.
20 This document (Volume 5 of the Poverty Asscssmcnt for Zambia, 1994) has been identified as best
practice of PPAs according to an assessiienl of a sample of eight Poverty Assessments carried out by
the Institute of Dcvelopment Studies. U.K.. on behalf of the Special Program for Africa Working
Group on Povertv and Social Policy.



-47-
Poverty Monitoring
To improve the po erty reduction content of policies at the macro-economic and sectoral levels
through provision of:
(a)    coordination with other components of the system, particularly by assisting
LCMU in the design of survey modules
(b)        elevant and timely monitoring reports on progress in the living conditions and
livelihoods of the rural and urban poor in Zambia
(c)    regular feedback from poor rural and urban communities on the perceived impact
of policy change
(d)    detailed information on the perceived needs and priorities of the rural and urban
poor in relation Eo the provision of public services
(e)    policy recommendations regarding priorities in macro and sectoral policy, through
carrying out investigations on specific topics of concern to policy makers on
demand
Project Monitoring
(a)    to continue to provide services in qualitative and participatory evaluation for SRP
microprojects and other project management units on demand
(b)    to improve the impact, poverty targeting and operational effectiveness of poverty
reduction projects through support to pre-project identification, training in
participatory planning, and participatory monitoring and evaluation as requested,
and providing practical recommendations to project managers on the basis of these
exercises
Dissemination, Training and Development
(a)    to improve the quality of poverty reduction activities at the District level through
the dissemination of research findings, and the provision of training and
facilitation services for District Development Coordinating Committees
(b)    to provide training and support to a wider community in the country (research,
donor, NGO, GRZ) including a strong link, particularly in methodology, with the
research community at UNZA, thereby supporting efforts to enhance research
capacity in Zambia
(c)    to contribute towards better integration of the network of participation
practitioners through dissemination, workshops, training and the collation and
synthesis of messages from other relevant qualitative and participatory research on
poverty issues in Zambia.



-48-
Particular emphasis is placed on the integration of the qualitative with the quantitative components
of the poverty monitoring system.
IV.   Workplan
6.     The following schedule outlines the major field exercises the team will be involved in over
the course of the project. A variety of ongoing activities are also identified which are outlined
below.
The activities identified consist of four different types:
(a)  Participatory Poverty Monitoring Exercises. These relate to objectives (a) through
to (d) identified under poverty monitoring above. They are field-based surveys using
primarily participatory research methods of the PRA (Participatory Rapid Appraisal)
family. The model for these exercises is the 1993 Participatory Poverty Assessment,
which had considerable influence on the formulation of the World Bank's country
program in Zambia through its impact on the Action Plan of the Poverty Assessment
(World Bank 1994). These exercises involve the whole of the PAG, as it is currently
constituted (i.e. two field teams of four-five researchers each, the PAG Director, Dr.
Milimo, and all support and logistical staff) for the period of the fieldwork, which is
approximately two months. For a further period of one month the services of the core
team are required for report preparation.
(b)    SRP Beneficiary Assessment Exercises. These focus on monitoring and evaluation
of the two Social Recovery Projects. They relate to objective (a) identified under the
project monitoring above. They are assumed to involve the whole of the field team
of the PAG for the periods specified for fieldwork (generally between one and two
months) with further time allocated for analysis and report writing. The model for
these exercises are the three BA's carried out under SRP 1.
(c)    District Level Training and Participatory Planning Exercises. These are a new
activity. They relate to objective (b) under project monitoring, and objective (a)
under dissemination, training and development, identified above. The overall aim
is both to develop the capacity of the SRP's District level teams, and to improve the
targeting of vulnerable communities as well as the quality of micro-project
identification. This work is assumed to involve three stages: training of the District
teams in participatory planning methods; identification of vulnerable communities;
pre-identification work using participatory planning methods wvith the communities
identified. It is anticipated that the PAG will engage in this work in two teams of
four, covering one District each every two eceks.
(d)    Thematic Studies. These rclate to objectives (c) and (e) identified under poverty
monitoring abovc. They arc to be identified in a process of collaboration with
stakeholdcrs from government (policy-makers), donor agencies and key actors in
civil society (academics, NGOs etc.). Other parts of the SRP2 are critical to this
process of identification including the Policy Coordinating Committee and the
Research Adviser to the Study Fund. The recent study into cost-sharing issues
commissioned by SIDA is an example of this type of exercise.



-49-
7.     In terms of administrative arrangcmcnts, items (a), (b) and (c) will be supported as part of
the core ludget identified for the PAG's activities, and presented at the end of this workplan. These
funds will be disbu-sed through the Institution Building and Support component of the SRP. The
funds wvill be disbursed against specified outputs (studies, training courses, workshops etc.), except
for certain capacitv-building items suclh as capital costs, and costs of training inputs provided for
the team wvhich will be funded dircctly. The thematic studies (item d) will be supported through the
Study Fund and identificd on an ongoing basis. Only one has been programmed below as this is
already identified - it is assumed that others wvill bc developed, and supported during the life of the
project. The PAG does not have a projected budget for these under its core activities as they will
be commniss:oned through the Study Fund - it xvill howvever receive some support to the
identification and development of such study proposals under its core budget.
V.    Proposed Activities Programme
1995: Major Activities
The start-up date of the project is August I st.
August-September 1995          A thematic study is likely to be commissioned under
the Study Fund into the functioning of the Public
Welfare Assistance Scheme
October - December             Participatory Poverty Monitoring Exercise
(activity suipported under core budget)
1996: Major Activities
January-March 1996             In this period it is likely that a Beneficiary Assessment
for the European Union micro-projects program will be
commissioned
April-May                      District-level training and participatory planning
exercises (covering eight Districts)
(activity supported under core budget)
July-September                 Bcneficiary Assessment, SRP2
(activity suipported under core budget)
October-December               Participatory Poverty Monitoring Exercise
(activity supported under core budget)



-50-
1997: Major Activities
Between January and September  2 months beneficiary assessment work for the
evaluation of the first Social Recovery Project (exact
timing to be determined)
(activity suipported under core budget)
Between January and September  2 months District-level training and participatory
planning (covering eight Districts)
(activity suipported under core budget)
October-December               Participatory Poverty Monitoring Exercise
(2.5 months - activity supported under core budget)
1998: Major Activities
January-March                  SRP 2 Beneficiarv Assessment for Mid-Term Review
(activity sutpported uinder core budget)
April-May                      District-level training and participatory planning
exercises (covering eight Districts)
(activity supported under core budget)
October-December               Participatory Poverty Monitoring Exercise
(2.5 months - activity supported under core budget)
Ongoing Activities:
8.     A variety of activities will be carried out either throughout the year, or at intervals but are
too short to allowv for inclusion in the schedule above. The are listed belowv, along with the time
that it is anticipated each activity will take up:
(a)  ,Skills Development anid Training for the Team. The team will need upgrading of
skills and opportunities for regular learning. The following areas have been identified:
training in research methods (cspeciallv PRA) - at least once every 18 months; training
in proposal and report writing (once every 18 months); training in computing and
word-processing (some members only); experiential learning opportunities (members
of the team to join other organisations practicing participatory research and planning
methods for short periods): basic book keeping (the administrative secretary plus one
team member); gender planning methodologies. It is anticipated that this activity will
take up two-three weeks per ycar.
(b) Training of Other Zambian Researchers and Practitioners. Once a year the PAG
ill organise an open training session in participatory policy research and planning
methods wvhich can be attended by students, government staff and NGO personnel.
This activity will contribute to objective (b) under Dissemination, Training and
Development above. This activity should take around seven days per year for
four/five team members (plus time for administration, preparation and planning).



-51l-
(c)   Technical Assistance, Operational Missions and Project Meetings. Although the
principal burden here will fall on the Director and other core team members,
experience has shown that it is cssential for all members of the PAG to be involved in
some e-ents (eg. key strategic planning meetings). This activity will take about three
weeks per year of the Director's time, and one week per year of the full team's time.
(d)  Process Time. This refers to key tasks such as developing proposals for thematic
studKis in dialogue with policy-makers, management and administrative tasks not
covered by budgets for specific activities. This activity refers primarily to the core
team, and should comprise around one-two weeks per year.
(e)  Dissemination. This refers primarily to dissemination of the results of the
Participatory Poverty Monitoring exercises, as it is assumed that budgets for thematic
studies will cover this item. Two weeks per year should be allowed for this.
(f)  Netvorking and Synthesis of Materialfrom Other Participatory Research in
Zambia. This refers to objective (c) under Disseminati,n, Training and
Development. It will take up one-two weeks per year of the team's time.
9.     The exact accounting for this time in terms of the team as a whole is complex, as many of
these activities involve different team members for different periods of time. Allowance has been
made for all of the above in the budget presented below. Again, it should be emphasized that tasks
identified above carried out in relation to thematic studies, or studies commissioned outside the
SRP2, should be budgeted for in those specific proposals.
10.    As a guide, we can assume that the PAG as a whole will be engaged in the above activities
for approximately two months per year during the period 1995-1996, dropping to 1.5 months a
year in the last hvo years of the project. A similar falling off in the time allocations has been
programmed under the allowances for the major activities. This is based on an assumption that the
PAG will be able to improve its productivity as it gains experience and develops capacity to fulfill
the role identified in the project.



-52-
VI.   SRP2 Related Activities
Under the workplan outlined above. the PAG is committed for the following periods of time during
the course of SRP2:
Year I (August-December 1995)               major activities:   3 months
ongoing activities:   I month
total:            4 months
Year 2 (1996)                               major activities:   8 months
ongoing activities:   2 months
total:           10 months
Year 3 (1997)                               major activities:   6.5 months
ongoing activities:  1.5 months
total:            8 months
Year 4 (1998)                               major activities:    7.5 months
ongoing activities:   1.5 months
total              9 months
Additional pieces of work may be commissioned under the study fund (see thematic studies, above)
VIl.  The Participatory Assessment Group - Resources, Organisation and Structure
I L.    As an independent organisation the PAG is to determine its own structure and mode of
operation. This structure, however, has to be capable of delivering the workplan outlined here. The
management of the SRP2 will engage in discussions with the PAG concerning resources and
organisational structure to the extent that it affects delivery of the program outlined here.
12.   It is currently anticipated that the PAG will have a core team of full-time staff. This will
include the Coordinator/Executive Secretary (Dr. Milimo) and four full-time professional program
staff (two men and two women). One of these will be the deputy Executive Secretary, who will
take responsibility for day-to-day management and administration, as well as deputising for the
Coordinator when he is awav.
13.    The Coordinator will have overall responsibility for assuring the quality of the PAG's
outputs and will therefore concentrate on overseeing the PAG's policy research, operational and
training functions. The three remaining full-time professional staff will be given responsibility for
developing activities in the fields of training, policy research, and networking, respectively. There
will be a full-time administrative assistant and a driver.
14.    There will also be five research officers who will be members of PAG staff on a part-time
basis (three women and two men). These staff members will be employed for operational tasks
such as training and research exercises. Additional staff (researchers, drivers) will be taken on a
contract basis as required.



-53-
Annexed to this document is an organisational chart outlining the PAG's structure.
VIII. Indicative Budget
Year 1: 1995 (August-December)
Start-up costs                                                                 1000
PAG registration and publicity
Capital costs
4WD vehicle                                                            35000
laser printer                                                           2000
2 laptop computers                                                      1500
3 cameras                                                                600
furniture                                                               1500
Recurrent Costs (personnel)
Fill-time staff
Coordinator/Exec Secretary                          2350 per month X 4 = 9400
Deputy Exec. Secretary                              1500 per month X 4 = 6000
two senior program officers                         1200 per month X 4 = 9600
one program officer                                   850 per month X 4 = 3400
Admin. assistant                                      700 per month X4 = 2800
Driver                                               350permonthX4= 1400
Medical/life insurance                                                   500
Part-time staff
Two senior research officers                         1200 per month X 2 = 4800
Three research officers                               800 per month X 2 = 4800
Driver                                                350 per month X 2 = 700
Medical/life insurance                                                   300
Subsistence allowances
Professional staff                       37. 5 per dayX 570 person days = 21375
Drivers                                      25 per dayX60 person days  1500
Recurrent costs (non-personnel)
Communications (modem, internet)                                        1000
Transport costs                                                         1500
Vehicle servicing and maintenance                                       3000
Consumables (film, stationery etc.)                                      750
Utility costs                                                            500
Maintenance of office equipment and
Premises                                                               500
Report production and dissemination                                     1500
Technical Assistance
Local training of PAG staff                                             1000
PRA training workshop (international
facilitator, workshop costs)                                          4000
Contingencies @d % total costs                                                 6000
TOTAL COSTS (YR. 1)                                                      US$127,925



-54-
Year 2: 1996
Recurrent Costs (personnel)
Full-time staff
Coordinator/Exec Secretary                          2350 per month X 10 = 23500
Deputy Exec. Secretary                              1500 per month X 10 = 15000
two senior program officers                        1200 per month X1O = 24000
one program officer                                   850 per month X 10 = 8500
Admin. assistant                                      700 per month XI 0 = 7000
Driver                                               350 per monthX10 = 3500
Medical/life insurance                                                    1000
Part-time staff
Two senior research officers                         1200 per month X 6 = 14400
Three researcih officers                             800 per month X 6 = 14400
Driver                                                350 per month X 6 = 2100
Medical/life insurance                                                     750
Subsistence allowvances
Professional staff                       37.5 per dayX 1750 person days = 65625
Drivers                                     25 per day X 400 person days = 10000
Recurrent costs (non-personnel)
Communications (modem. internet)                                          2000
Transport costs                                                           3000
Vehicle servicing and maintenance                                         3000
Consumables (film, stationery etc.)                                       1500
Utility costs                                                             1000
Maintenance of office equipment and
premises                                                                1000
Report production and dissemination                                       3000
Provincial and national level
dissemination workshops                                                 7000
Technical Assistance
Local training of PAG staff                                               3000
Social Development consultancies                                         10000
contingencies @5% total costs                                                   11000
TOTAL COSTS (YR. 2)                                                       US$235,275



-55-
IX.   Budget notes
(a)  The above costs cover only the core activities identified in the workplan.
(b)  Thematic studies would be financed over and above these budgets from the Study Fund.
(c)  Costs are for the portion of the year that the PAG is assumed to be engaged on the above
core activities - all costs, including basic recurrent expenditures, are expected to be
budgeted for in periods when not working for the SRP2 in the contracts arranged with
other funders.
(d)  Some of these costs will be paid directly to the PAG - these relate to activities essential
for developing the PAG's capacity to carry out the workplan, and will cover the capital
and start-up costs, as well as costs incurred when the PAG members themselves are
being trained. Other activities (i.e. when there is an identifiable direct output - eg. a
study, a workshop etc.) will be contracted through the micro-projects unit, with
guarantees of performnance and accountability assured through the contracting
arrangements. This latter arrangement will cover at least 80% of the costs outlined
below over the four years of activities in this workplan.
(e)  Salary costs are inclusive of 35% income tax.
(f)  In preparation for the mid-term review, the PAG will submit a report to the SRP2
Steering Committee at the beginning of 1997 which will contain an analysis of work
done for the SRP2 and other clients, a statement and analysis of income from sources
outside the project, the proposed annual budgets for the remaining years of the project,
and a finance plan indicating how the Group proposes to attain independent
sustainability by project completion.
X.    Financing Plan
Year 1 (Aug.-December 1995).                                     127,925
Year 2 (1996)                                                    235,275
Year 3 (1997)                                                    190,000
Year 4 (1998)                                                    210,000
Total financing requirement                                  US$763,200



-56-
PARTICIPATORY ASSESSMENT GROUP
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
management committee
|Adv'sory Committee . ...
0                               | e_.Dcputy Executive Secretary
Studies coordinator      Training Coordinator  Networking Coordinator
(Program Officer)       (Program Officer)        (Program Officer)
Administrative Secretary                    Research/ProgramrOfficer (5)
Driver
Notes:
The Advisory Committee will consist of two reprcsentatives from the academic community, two
drawn from Zambia NGO staff, two from the private sector, and one representative from a Trades
Union.



-57-
Annex 3
LIVING CONDITIONS MONITORING SURVEY
Introduction
I .    There has been a long-felt need for monitoring the effects of policy decisions and external
factors (e.g. drought) on the welfare of different groups of the population. The Living Conditions
Monitoring Survey (LCMS) has been designed to replace the ad-hoc monitoring activities of the
past few years. The Central Statistical Office in Lusaka has established a Living conditions
Monitoring Unit (LCMU) which will coordinate several survey activities thus creating a
harmonized, standardized and cost-effective process for the production of social statistics.
2.     The Living Conditions Monitoring Survey (LCMS), the Food Security Nutrition and
Health Monitoring System (FHANIS), and the Household Budget Survey (HBS), will constitute
the core survey activities in the Unit. The systematic collection of statistical data in relevant
Ministries, such as the Ministries of Health and Education, will also be coordinated with activities
of the LCMU.
3.     The LCMS program will build on the experience and capacities acquired in the Central
Statistics Office through its monitoring activities during SRP1. An evaluation of the Priority
Surveys (1991, 1993) recommended the following changes in future surveys:
* more focus on the social sphere of living conditions
*  user-producer workshops to identify information needs
* application of smaller and more manageable samples
* more appropriate questionnaires
* improved routines for quality control in the field
long-term technical assistance to secure continuity
* maintenance of continuity and consistency with data already collected through PS I
and PS 11
* improved coordination of social statistics monitoring within the CSO
* more effective advertising of data availability.
The SRP2 project will finance successive rounds of the LCMS on a sliding scale which is planned
to end after four years when the Unit is expected to be fully supported by GOZ.
The LCMS - An Annual Modular Survey Program
4.     The monitoring program will be designed on a modular platform. A core module, repeated
annually, will include a set of priority indicators. Extensive contact and interaction with potential
users of the living conditions survey data is built into the preparatory process to identify and
suggest the priority indicators. A major concern will be that the indicators should provide
substantive information, wvhile being easily recorded. Interviews should not take more than 30 - 40
minutes.
5.     As need arises, modules covering additional dimensions, or expanding on those in the core
module, could be added, based on a request from a Ministry responsible for a particular aspect of



-58-
social sector development, or any other involved agency, either on an ad hoc basis, or at regular
intervals. In addition, specified target groups can be given special attention, both by extending the
sample or by giving them an extended questionnaire, specifically designed to elicit data on their
situation. In this way the LCMS can provide information which monitors changes on an annual
basis, while having the flexibility to respond to urgent issues raised by users and other parties.
6.     The main objectives of this system can be summnarized as follows:
(a) to give rapid, reliable information on key indicators of living conditions on an annual
basis;
(b) to serve as a national baseline from which surveys covering vulnerable groups, special
items or geographical areas can be launched,
(c) to give different users a system of social indicators by which to monitor development;
(d) to provide a flexible and cost-effective data collection system, which is comparable and
standardized,
(e) to coordinate social statistics collected within the CSO as well as by relevant Ministries,
such as the Ministries of Health and Education.
Sampling
7.     Sample size and sampling frame will be important issues during the planning stage. The
sample should be large enough to allow for data to be desegregated to provincial level, and
preferably to rural/urban areas within the provinces. A deep stratification is recommended. As a
minimum, considering stratification after level of centrality, administrative level, agro-ecological
zones, but also disease exposure, primary' school coverage, physical infrastructure, composition of
the work force etc. as far as information allow for. The sample should permnit the data to be broken
down by the most relevant socio-economic background factors. This should be possible even with a
considerable decrease in sample size when compared to the Priority Surveys. The sampling frame
should be developed on the basis of final Census results and should coincide with the agricultural
sampling frame as far as the different objectives allow. (One approach to consider would be to
extend the Crop Forecasting survey sample in order to obtain a common or highly overlapping
master sample).
Relationship to Participatory Assessment
8.     A special feature of the new monitoring component of the SRP will be the interplay
between qualitative and quantitative approaches in analyzing social processes and social
phenomena. This is rcflccted in the way the monitoring component of SRP2 is organized (see figure
1). The institutional framework and management structure of the LCMU and PAG is designed to
secure exchange and cooperation betwecn the diffcrent methodologies employed. Mutual
representation on the technical committces of the two units will ensure exchange of information on
activities, plans, findings and research questions. It is hoped that the two units will be located near
each other so that infornal exchange and cooperation between the two units will occur.
9.     The LCMU needs input from the PAG particularly in the planning stage of a survey. The
Participatory Assessment of 1993 did follow-up studies and provided in-depth explanations to
several questions which were raised during the analysis of the PS 1. Through this experience a good
relationship and a cooperative tradition was established between the participatory and the
quantitative monitoring communities.



-59-
Figure 1: Overview of the SRP2 Monitoring Component
|                        ~~~SRP MONITORING COMPONENT|
SRP monitoring steering conuniuee: Setting the objectives, overall strategies and the priorities for the SRP Monitoring Component.
Members: Mlicroproject Component, Study Fund, PAG, LCMIS Unit, Ministries, NGOs, Donors
PARTICIPATORV                                  LCM U- LIVING CONDITIONS MONITORING UNIT AT THE CSO
ASSESSMENT GROUP - PAG                             Technical committee: Proposing the core and target modules for the
Technical Committee: LCMS Unit.                                         SRP Steering Committee
FHANIS, Technical Experts,                         Members: PA Unit, FHANIS, CSO, Technical Experts, User Groups
User Groups
it         @TARGETED                                                                          TARGETED
ISSUES               LCMS CORE MODULE    GROUPS
* Participatory Poverly Mlonitoring                Indicators           User- Producerworking          Over sampling of
Participatory Assessmients for the                measuring            groups for thec core           vulnerable or
Social Recovery Monitoring                        specified            subjects, e.g.                targeted groups,
Component                            = >          issues, e.g.         -Health                        eg
* Project and Program Monitoring                   Expenditure,         -Food Security an d Nutrition
Beneficiary Assessments for the                   Income, and          -Euain-Female headed
-Income generating activities  households
Microproject Component                            Consumipti'on        -Political ResourcesI
* Training and Dissemination                                            Sample size: 5000 h.h.s             +
activities for
Policy Makers, Implenientors, and               PERIODICITY                PERIODICITY               PERIODICITY
the Research Community                          On demand             Data Collection, Processing,    On demand
and reponing ANNUALLY
The first round of the LCMS
10.      The planning for the first round of the LCMS will need to be done very carefully, and it is
expected that the process will start in 1995.
Output From Round I of the LCMS
11.      The output from  the first round of the LCMS would be high quality data disseminated to
relevant user groups and made available for research activities both at the University and other
relevant agencies. The data set would be an important input for studies to be funded by the Study
fund.
(a) A cleaned data set will be released no later than 9 months after the end of the data
collection period.
(b) A tabulation report summarizing the most important results from the survey will be
produced by the CSO. This report will be presented (but not necessarily printed)
within a year after the data collection period.



-60-
(c) The tabulation report will be followed by a policy relevant social report, produced by
the CSO in cooperation with relevant Ministries and other agencies. This report should
be presented before the release of the data from the next round.
This publication program should be an annual feature of the proposed system.
Planning Activities For Future Rounds of the LCMS
12.    To accomplish a cost-effective way of collecting social statistics, it is not only necessary to
thoroughly plan the LCMS, but also all other surveys covering the social dimensions in order to
ensure the desired comparability. This means that the whole set of social statistics of CSO has to
be looked into in the course of planning the LCMS, in order to be able to build a coherent
statistical system on social conditions. The core content of the LCMS should also be coordinated
with the collection of statistics going on and being planned in relevant Ministries, such as the
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. In this process it is very important that
definitions of concepts and standardization of background information are agreed, throughout the
different surveys, to enable monitoring of social development across groups and over time.
13.   In order to effectively carry out the proposed changes in the social statistics system, it is
also important to have an efficient programming infrastructure. In order to ensure the best possible
use of computer resources throughout the social statistical system, as well as for the rest of CSO, a
common soft-ware should be introduced. This also enhances the possibility of flexible use of data.
Survey Budget Phase, 1995-99
14.    The budget for the survey program to be carried out by CSO is as follows (costs are given
in '000 US, applying a rate of US I = ZKw 700): This budget is based on the following
assumptions: An annual household survey with something like a 30 minute household based
questionnaire, and a sample of about 5000. It covers four rounds of data collection in the proposed
survey system.
15.    This budget is for planning, personnel training and infrastructure, (including computers
and soft-ware both at Central and regional offices), fuel and two project vehicles. The budget also
includes funding for a long-term consultant for 24 months, which uill ensure that the consultant
will be able to follow the complete first round of the survey and data dissemination. The budget
also allows for short-term consultancies, for all three rounds and allowances for national experts.
16.    The cost of the field operations are calculated on the following basis:
* Interviewers: 2 months, 95 persons, K 100,000 each
* Data entry clerks: 48 days, 24 persons, K60,000 each
* Drivers: 2 months 19 persons, K200,000 each
* Supervisors: 48 days, 19 persons, K 200,000 each
17.   The initial contribution from thc Governmcnt of Zambia will be about US Dollar 9000 per
year. External sources will fund the remainder of the budget for the first two years. Government
will assume responsibility for an additional 25 percent in 1997, 50 percent in 1998, 75 percent in
1999, and 100 percent of the regular operation of the survey as of the year 2000.



-61-
BUDGET SPECIFIED ON ANNUAL EXPENSES
Budget item                          1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    TOTAL
Long-term consultant                  96      144      48        -        -        288
Short-termn consultants               72       54      54       54       54        288
Accountant                             9       12       12       12      12        57
National experts                       6       11       11       11      11        50
Interviewers                           -       29      29       29       29        116
Data entry clerks                      -       10       10      10       10        40
Drivers                                -       11       11      11       11        44
Supervisors                            -       26      26       26       26        104
Total Personnel                    183     297      201      153      153       987
Sur-veyspes. training                  -       6        6        6        6        24
National Workshops                     12      12       12       12      12        60
General training                      15       35       35      30       10        125
Total Training                     27       53       53      48       28        209
Headquarters                          10       25       10      10                 55
Vehicles (2)                          55        -       -        -        -55
Provinces                             10       15       10      10       10        55
Total Equipment                    75       40       20      20       10        165
Operation And Maintenance          20       40       40      40       20        160
Reports And Printing                -       5        5        5        5        20
Total, Exc. Contingencies          305     435      319      266     216       1 541.
Price cont.5%                          -       22       31      40       43        136
Physical cont 10%                     30       43       32      26       22        153
Funding the LCMU                       9       9        9        9        9        45
Total Funding                      344     509      391      341     290       1875
Of Which National                   9       9       104      175     219        516
DONORSUPPORT3   5.                MC       .1. ..... ...
DONOR SUPPORT                        335      500   ti 8 



-62-
Annex 4
TIlE POVERTY ANALYSIS (STUDY FUND) COMPONENT
Background
1.    The main purpose of the Study Fund is the analysis of poverty issues and the effects of
economic policies on poor and vulnerable groups. The Study Fund aims to improve the
communication between the rcscarch community and the policy makers and implementors. It
encourages the analysis of existing data w hich is presented in a usable form to the ultimate users -
the policy makers. The Study Fund also aims to strengthen the capacity of existing Zambian
research institutions.
2.     The first study was financed in June 1992 undcr SRPI, and the first to be completed was
in January 1993. By December 1994, twenty-two studies had been completed, five were ongoing,
and several were at the proposal stage.
3.     As part of the mid term review of the Social Recovery Project 1, the Study Fund
commissioned an evaluation of its effectiveness in reaching its objectives. In summary, the
evaluation report found that the Study Fund had made major progress in building up viable
structures which ensure the operation of demand driven policy related research. The Study Fund
administration and Committee have put in place effective mechanisms for the selection and review
of studies. A dialogue between the research community and policy makers has been established,
and the Study Fund is increasingly bccoming known and accessible to Ministries and public
institutions.
4.     The evaluation found three main areas for furtlher devclopment:
(a) public institutions and ministrics nccd to be further involved in the identification of
research areas and the commissioning of studies;
(b) the procedures for selection and review research topics need to be further strengthened
so that the policv makers are increasingly involved in the study cycle to improve their
ownership of the studies and their results; and
(c)
the research teams need guidance in research methodologies, research topics and
presentation of research.
5.    It was also noted the Study Fund administration is increasingly becoming a resource center
for consultants, researchers, students and donors.
6.     The Study Fund plays an important role in providing action orientated research which is
relevant to po0icy makers and implcmentors. It is the only project of its kind in Zambia, and
interest and activity is increasing daily. The groundwvork has been done and the Study Fund
Committee procedures institutionalised.



-63 -
Objectives of the Study Fund
7.     The main qim of the Study Fund is to support research and studies which focus on policy
related poverty issues. The specific objectives are:
(a) to identify the effects of social and economic policies on the poor and vulnerable.
Struztural adjustment economic and social policies have implications for all members
of society but affect some more than others. Government and donors are concerned
that these effects are understood by policy makers so that programmes which cushion
the effects of the policies can be implemented. Studies which address poverty issues
and the analysis of social and economic policies on the vulnerable are a priority;
(b) to assist in the formulation of policies and implementation of programmes; Studies
financed by the Study Fund are action oriented. Practical solutions are suggested to
policy makers and implementors of programmes. The research studies aim to assist in
the effective targeting of interventions to beneficiaries;
(c) to improve communication betveen researchers, policy makers, programme
implementors and target communities; the Study Fund aims to strengthen the linkages
betwveen the research community and the policy makers in Zambia by encouraging the
analysis of existing data by the research community and making the results available
to t'ie policv makers, in a usable form. for the benefit of vulnerable groups.
8.     Data and information exist in the records of ministries, local government, as well as
universities and research institutions. Rarely, however, is there time, capacity and funds available
to fully analyse this data and make it available in a usable form to policy makers. The Study Fund
makes resources available, strengthening the capacity of institutions to perform this task. The
Study Fund will finance government agencies, non-governmental organisations, research
institutions, private consultancics and individuals to undertake relevant studies.
Institutional Arrangements
9.     The Study Fund is administered by a Committee consisting of the donor, non-governmental
and research communities, and the Governmcnt of Republic of Zambia line ministries. This
Committee approves or rejects studies, decides research priority areas, determines criteria, assigns
reviewers, and sometimes commissions studies. It is supported by the Study Fund Secretariat.
10.    The Secretariat, based in Microprojects Unit of NCDP, assists with the co-ordination of
studies, administers the financing of studies, provides advice and some logistical support. The
secretariat initially appraises proposed studies according to criteria established by the Committee,
advises the researchers and co-ordinates the review process. The studies are then discussed by the
Study Fund Committee and, if accepted, financed.
11. The Study Fund has developed procedures, produced guidelines for researchers and a
Research Manual which guides researchers through research methods and presentation. Training
and dissemination workshops and seminars are organised and financed by the Study Fund.



-64-
12.    To further the objectives stated above, the Studv Fund will recruit a Study Fund Research
Advisor.
13.    The Studv Fund Research Advisor wvill initially screen proposals and advise researchers
before they reach the review process, strengthening the quality of research proposals. The Research
Advisor will be in constant contact with the planners and policy makers from the relevant
Ministries so that studies of contemporary issues are quickly commissioned. The Research
Advisor will also strengthen the review process, in order to improve the analytical and
methodological skills of the researchers. The Research Advisor will organise and coordinate the
research methodology workshops and research dissemination seminars. The Research Advisor will
also be expected to improve the dissemination processes of the studies financed by the Study Fund
throughout the country.
Action Programme - SRP2
14.    The Study Fund wvill continue to finance Priority Studies. Analysis of existing data will be
encouraged, especially that of Priority Survey 2 data and the Living Conditions Monitoring Survey
(LCMS). The main social sector ministries are intending to use the facilities of the Study Fund to
analyse existing data in order to enable them to target their programmes more effectively toward
the poor and vulnerable.
15.    For example, the Ministry of Health intends to undertake a Priority Study on the effects of
the user fees on the accessibility of health services. The Government of Zambia through the
Household Food Securitv Monitoring Project (FHANlS) has asked the Study Fund to finance a
study to evaluate the Food for Work Programmes to assist in the formulation of a policy. The
Ministry of Community Development and Social Services are presently developing a terms of
reference for a study which would assist them in development of criteria for safety net activities
and of monitoring indicators to assess the impact of these. It is expected that two Priority Studies
a year will be financed and completed.
16.    The Studv Fund wvill also continue to fund small studies.  By increasing the inputs of
research revieNvers and Study Fund personnel, it is hoped to increase the turn over of better quality
small studies to about ten a year.
Budget for Study Fund Component
Budget Notes:
(a) Studies and Consultants: It is assumed that given the increased capacity provided by a
qualified Research Advisor, the turn over of studies will increase to 2 Priority Studies
(average US$75,000 per studv), and 10 small studies per annum ( US$15,000 per
study)..
(b) Training and Dissemination: the Study Fund expects two independent reviewers per
study at an average of US$ I 50/reviewer/study. Dissemination workshops are
estimated to cost on average US$ I .000 /study. Report production, Research Manual
and Newsletter production will be included in this budget heading. The cost/study is on
average US$400 for the thirty copies needed for dissemination. The Research



-65-
Methodology Workshops arc expected to a bi-annual event and is estimated to cost
US$500 each. Research seminars (10/annum) are estimated to cost US$250 each. A
5 percent contingencv has been added to cover the increased capacity as a research
resource centre.
(c) Admi iistration Costs: it is estimated that the Research Advisor will cost about
US$1,500 a month (US$18,000 per annum), including all expenses. The Research
Advisor will be supported by a secretary, about US$500 per month (US$6,000 per
annum). US$6,000 per annum is estimated to finance the running costs of a vehicle
and office equipment .
(d) Capital Start Up Expenses: it is proposed to procure a vehicle for the Study Fund
Research Advisor and a photocopier. Presently the Study Fund is dependent on the
Social Recoverv Project vehicles and equipment.
Budget Items        1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     Total
Studies                   100,000  225,000  225,000  225,000  225,000  1,000,00
Training and Dissemination  10,000    15,000    15,000    15,000    10,000   65,000
Administration Costs       15,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000  1,065,00
Capital start-up           30,000        0         0        0         0   30,000
Total                     155,000  270,000  270,000  270,000  265,000  1,230,00
Contingencies               2,000    5,000    5,000      5,000    5,000   22,000
G. Total                  157,000  275,000  275,000  275,000  270,000  1,252,00
Study Fund Contribution         0        0         0   60,000    60,000   120000
Donor Contribution     |157,000  275,0001  275,000  215,000  215,000 1,137,000
Study Fund Expenditure by Category under SRPI, from 16th July 1992 - Dec. 94
Category               Actual Expenditure    Budget     Balance of Budget
Description and Number            Dec. 94        as per DCA         SEK
SEK             SEK
1. Studies and Consultant Services          2,805,036     4,500,000          1,694,964
2. Training                                    70,066       500,000           429,934
3. Beneficiary Assessment
(Training, Vehicles, Equipment)           1,550,367     1,000,000          (550,367)
4. Incremental Admin. Costs                   654,249       700,000            45,751
5. Unallocated                                      0     1,300,000          1,300,000
Total                                       5,079,718     8,000,000          2,920,282



-66-
Appedix 1: STUDY FUND COMPLETED STUDIES, DECEMBER, 1994
Title Of Study                      Author                                 Date Completed
Effects of Policies Under SAP on Elconomic                Ecotec                                     Jan-93
Performance on
Beneficiary Assessment - Phase I                          Dr. J.T. Milimo                           Mar-93
Malnutrition as a Consequence Of Recent Policies          Rosachi                                   May-93
Juvenile Deliquency                                       A. Suuya                                   Jun-93
Farming Systems in Chief Mukwikili's area                 A. Inglis, D. Harvey, B Phiri              Jun-93
Child Development In Chaisa Compound-l,usaka              L. Mulenga, R. House                       Jul-93
Poverty Analysis                                          W. Mazimba                                Aug-93
Entrepreneur Investment in Primary Education              Dr. G. Lungwangwa                         Aug-93
Beneficiary Assessment (ii)                               Dr. J.T. Milimo                           Nov-93
Formal Education and Women                               Dr. L. Mukuka                              Dec.-93
Accesst to Productive Resources
Community Response To Cholera                            J. Chime and E. Kawepwe                     Jan-94
Literature Review of Existinig Stidies and Surveys        G. Nyirongo, M. Banda
that Identify the Vulnerable                              and D. Mutunwa                             Jan-94
Review of Selected NGOs, Govemnment and Dlonor            M. Sikota, N. Nyangu
Activities in the Social Safety Net Sector                and C. Harland                             Jan-94
An Assessment of the Instititional Capacity and           K. Cummins and                             Jan-94
Needs of the Ministry of Community Development            Siamwiza
and Social Services
Effects of the Social Action Program on lProvincial       C. Nyrenda, and
Development                                               E. Mwamba                                  Jan-94
Sorghum Dehtillling In Zambia                             Drew Dawn                                 May-94
Assessment of Current H lealth Care l)elivery            Dr. M.E. Limbambala, and                   Jul-94
Services In Lusaka Urban                                  Ms. D.E. Choongo
Nutrition and Food Security Analysis of PS I              NFNC and OFSG                             Aug-94
Community Participation in Diarrhoel Diseases             Dr. H.M. Mutambo,                         Aug-94
in George                                                 Ms. E.M. Sichinga,
Ms. C.K. Malijani
An Assessment of Implications of SAP and                  P. Nk-andu, F. Luhila,
of Structuiral Adjustimtent on Ilealth, Re. Womeii        G. Ngenda, and D. Ntthani                 SEP.94
Private Sector Paticipation Educationi                    Fidelity Consult Services                 Sep-94
Low Cost Shelter on the Copper 13elt                      P.C. Katele CBU                           Sep-94



MICROPROJECT UNIT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
COORDINATOF COORDINATOR
EEC              _SRP
ITECHNICAL ADVISOR ||TECHNICAL ADVISOR|
|   EEC           l\R 
|   DEPARTMENT    l                                    OPERATIONS    !                                               ADMINISTRATION         MA R
|  HEAD OF      ||HEDDFIL                                                                                               FNACL
TECHNICAL SERVICES]                                        OEATIONS                                                       CONTROLER
CONTRACT &               REGIONAL           JUSTIFICATION      PFILE OPERATIONS        ACCOUNTING            COMPUTER          ADMINISTRATIVE
TECHNICAL OFFICER   | | PROCUREMENT OFFICER       OFFICERS IS         OFFICER              OFFFFICER             OFFICER             OPERATOR            SECRETARY
-Societadas 191   JUSTIFICATION/FILING                                                                  Sectelies
-Drivws 191              CLERK                                                                          O; lice Orderlies
zn



-68-
Annex 6
Annual Reporting Requirements
1.     Introduction
(a) Overview of progress in all components of Project
(b) Disbursement summary, and financial statement
2.     Community Initiatives
(a) Introduction
(b) Administration and Staff
(c) Information Managemcnt
(d) Programme Devclopment
*  Introduction
5  Project Identification
-  Field Appraisal
•  Monitoring
*  Completion and Maintenance of Projects
(e) Project Implcmentation
*  Growsth
-  Donor Contributions
*  By Province
-  By Sector
-  Physical Implementation
(f) Financial Summary
3.     Zambia Education Rehabilitation Project
(a) Project Implemcntation
(b) Financial Summary
4      Consultancies and Results
5.     Objectives for next year



-69-
6.     Institutiopal Building and Support
(a) Provincial Seminars
(b) District Training
(c) Regional Officer Training
(d) Communitv training
(e) Nev Project Developments
7.     The Poverty Analysis (Study Fund) Component
(a) Introduction
(b) Administration and The Study Fund Committee
(c) Priority Studies
(d) Small Studies
(e) Financial Summary
8.     The Poverty Monitoring Component
(a) Living Conditions Monitoring Survey (LCMS ) Project Implementation
- Compliance with Work Plan
*  Progress on LCMS
*  Dissemination of results
*  Linkages with Poverty Assessment Group
(b) Poverty Assessmcnt Group (PAG)
*  Beneficiarv Assessment
-  Specific targeted monitoring programme
*  Participatory microproject identification
-  Dissemination, Training and Development
*  Linkages wit:h the LCMU
(c) Financial Summary
* The LCMS
* The PAG
9.     Summary of Annual Audit
(a) Community Initiatives
(b) Analysis Component (Study Fund)
(c) Living Costs Monitoring Survey (LCMS)
(d) Poverty Assessment Group (PAG)
10.    Concluding Comments



-70-
Annex 7
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Approximate Date      Expected Skill Requirements            Activity           Staff
(Month/Year)                                                                 Input
(Staff
Weeks)
Task Manager
November 1995      Economist                         Supervision                  10
Statistician
Social Scientist
February 1996      Task Manager                      Supervision                  6
Social Scientist
Coordinator
May 1996           TA (Social Scientist)             Debriefing in Washington    12
Financial Controller
Head - Technical Services
Statistician
Task Manager
July 1996          Economist                         Annual
Statistician                     Implementation Review        18
Social Scientist
Educator
Engineer
Health Specialist
Water & Sanitation Specialist
November 1996      Task Manager                      Supervision                  6
Statistician
Task Manager
February 1997      Economist                         Supervision                  8
Social Scientist
Coordinator
May 1997           TA (Social Scientist)             Debriefing in Washington    12
Financial Controller
Head - Technical Services
Statistician
Task Manager
July 1997          Economist                         Annual
Statistician                     Implementation Review        18
Social Scientist
Educator
Engineer
Health Specialist
Water & Sanitation Specialist



-71-
Approximate Date     Expected Skill Requirements            Activity           Staff
(Month/Year)                                                                Input
(Staff
Weeks)
November 1997      Task Manager                      Supervision                 6
Social Scientist
Task Manager
February 1998      Economist                        Supervision                  8
Statistician
May 1998           Coordinator
Financial Controller             Debriefing in Washington    12
Head - Technical Services
Statistician
Social Scientist
Task Manager
July 1998          Economist                        Annual
Statis.ician                     Implementation Review       18
Social Scientist
Educator
Engineer
Health Specialist
_Water & Sanitation Specialist
November 1998      Task Manager                      Supervision                 6
Statistician
Task Manager
February 1999      Economist                        Supervision                 10
Statistician
Social Scientist
Coordinator
May 1999           Financial Controller             Debriefing in Washington    12
Head - Technical Services
Statistician
Social Scientist
Task Manager
July 1999          Economist                        Annual
Statistician                     Implementa.ion Review       14
Social Scientist
Educator
Health Specialist
November 1999      Task Manager                     Supervision                  6
_Social Scientist                I



-72-
Approximate Date    Expected Skill Requirements               Activity              Staff
(Month/Year)                                                                     Input
(Staff
..________________ .. ________ _________ _________ ._____ .W                     eeks)
Task Manager
February 2000       Economist                         Supervision                     8
Statistician
Coordinator                                                     12
May 2000            Social Scientist                  Debriefing in Washington
Financial Controller
Head - Technical Services
Statistician
Task Manager                     Annual
July 2000           Economist                         Implementation Review
Statistician                     and                            14
Social Scientist                 Prepare Project Integration
Educator                         into Government System
Health Specialist
Task Manager
November 2000       Statistician                      Supervision                    14
Economist
Educator
Health Specialist
Social Scientist
February 2001       Task Manager
Economist                        Project Completion Report      14
Educator                         Preparation Review and
Health Specialist                Project
Statistician                     Handover to GRZ
_  Social Scientist
May 2001            World Bank                        Discussion of PPR               4
GRZ                              Findings



-73-
Annex 8
Documents Available on File
1.     Administration Manual
Dcscribes procedures. terms of reference for all consultants, conditions of work,
reporting, disciplinary code, performance appraisal criteria.
2.     Annual Report Social Recovery Project I, 1993
3.     Audited Accounts, Social Recoverv Project 1, 1993
4.     Beneficiary Assessments:
Phase 1: August 1992
Phase 2: May 1993
Phase 3: April 1994
5.     E 'aluation Rel on of Priority Survey Component of SRPI, November 1994
6.     Evaluation Report of the Study Fund SRPI, June 1994
7.     Micro-Project Implementation Workbook
Describes for the implementing community in detail how the community should
implement their microproject. including community organization, project planning,
procurement, financial reporting and accounting, and technical aspects.
8.     Microproject Monitoring System Manual
Describes network database functions and outputs.
9.     Mid Term Review of the SRPI. Discussion paper, May 1994
Summary of mid-term review evaluation and their recommendations.
10.    Priority Survey I Report, December 1993
11.    Priority Survey 2 Report, Januarv 1995
12.    Regional Officer Manual
Describes role of Regional Oflicer, procedures of the project cycle, reporting format and
intervals, community participation techniques and technical details.
13.    Special Audit Report for Monitoring component, August 1994
14.    Study Fund Guidelines
Describes the objectives and procedures of the Study Fund.
15.    Study Fund Research Manual
Describes how a research proposal should be presented including consideration of
methods, primary data collection, secondary data use and how to present results.
16.    Technical Audit of the Microprojects in SRPI, May 1993, John Burrows and Partners
17.    Technical Evaluation of the Microprojects Unit. SRPI April 1994, Masdar Zambia Ltd.



-74-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
Tentative Quarterly Project and Disbursement Projections
1996 - 2000
Assumptions.      Total of 4 new microprojects per quarter per province per year (3 from SRP2 and I from MPP)
* Length of the Second Social Recovery Project is 5 years
The mean duration of a microproject is 2 years
The mean value of the micToproject is USD 75,000



*FzvJzr                             ,rrMnn           .
I            N~       ~         ~        ~~ - -  N ----  
'i  t:  t:  :
828flflfl8.--.--  --  -- 
0~~~~~~
8|8a             a                                    0    332228                  c E§.  a n..r'DD-r - - - - - - - - -
9             ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
_~~~~~ ~ ~ ~             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -               -               --  -  -  -  -  - ,.  -  -  -
^ W  < - *~~~~ -           - -  -D  - -            - - - 2o
0                                              a~~~~~~~~~~~ 
8888822828               U,      -    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
-   -   - - - -    -8                8 -   -2-
t i  i J  ift                                                                                             0
W  o   ~ o  o  so  o  o  o-   - -   -   -   -     -  -  -  -                           -s  -  -  -  -  -  -   
^~~~~~~~~                - - - - - -E                                                       - - -  - -
*                                                           o---_-_-- _  S-- - - - - -  _
E  - - - q  < i                                          O _ w  u _ 
6                                                                                                             a __V
^      -i - - -                                - _j                                                             -    
.iihflf-fe E -
^~hhhj _                                                   jijiji__   uij_-i E-    - E ftS 
8 r8> g  o ° 8  8 S S   o _ _ __ _ _ __ _ 2   S  ° ° S  8 b o  ° ~ ~  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ft
S S o S  o 9 S  S °                   S  S 8 S  8 89                                -
6~ uhhIU                                                             iiiiuuui



Table 3 - Second Social Recovery Project - Summ;.ry Table (SRP2 and MPP)
Disbursement Profile                      Disbursement
New Projects (Cumulative)           Completed Projects   I  Value of Disbursements (USD)                   Total Cumulative (USD)
Year       SRP2       MPP        Total      SRP2      MPP       Total         SRP2       MLPP        Totail         SRP2         MPP          Total
1996        108         36        144          0        0         0!    4,050,000  1,350,000   5,400,000      4,050,000    1,350,000     5,400,OCO
1997,       216         72       288         108       36       1441   8,100,000  2,700,000   10,800,000     12,150,000   4,050,000    16,200,000
19981       324        108       432        216        72       288     8,100,000  2,700,000   10,800,000    20,250,000   6,750,000    27,000,000
1999¶      432         144       576        324       108       432     8,100,000  2,700,000   10,800,000    28,350,000   9,450,000    37,800,000
2000        540        180        720       432       144       576     8,100,000  2,700,000   10,800,000     36,450,000  12,150,000    48,600,000
2001          -          -                   540      180       720     4,050,000  1,350,000   5,400,000     40,500,000   13,500,000    54,000,000
Completed Projects: Forecast                                                Annual Disbursements: Forecast
600                                                                           9,000,000 -
I                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8,000,000
500                                                                           7,000,000
400                                                                           6,000,000
1996  1997  1985,000,000                                              M SRP2
~ 300 - -                                                    0 SRP2           4,000,000                                                 OMP
200                                           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3MIPP  3,000,000
2,000,000
100-                                                                          1,000,000
0
0                                                                                         '0             OC     C~      0      -
O\     O,     01      a,         0
1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001                                             O 
Year                                                                           Year
CD
oCx






IMAGING
Report No:       14329 ZA
Type: SAR



