Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 22047-ZA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27550, TF-20036, TF-21123; TF-20038)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.1 MILLION
(US$ 30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
SECOND SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
May 9, 2001
Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kwacha (ZMK)
ZMK 3685.9 = US$ 1 00
US$.0002173 = ZMK I 00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASIPNET                     African Social Investment Funds Network
BA                          Beneficiary Assessment
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                         Community Based Organization
CSO                         Central Statistics Office
CTI                         Community Transport Initiative
DCA                         Development Credit Agreement
DDCCs                       District Development Coordination Committees
DHS                         Demographic Health Survey
EU                          European Union
GRZ                         Govenmnent of the Republic of Zambia
HIV/AIDS                    Human Imnuunodeficiency Vitus/Acquired
Irmnunodeficiency Syndrome
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IDA                         International Development Association
JEC                         Irformation, Education, Conunuiication
LCMS                        Living Conditions Monitoring System
LCMU                        Living Conditions Moritoring Unit
MMS                         Microprojects Monitoring System
MPU                         Micro Projects Unit
NGO                         Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD                       Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OJT                         On the Job Training
PAG                         Participatory Assessment Group
PEF                         Pilot Environmental Fund
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
PS                          Prioiity Surveys
PWAS                        Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
PWD                         Public Works Department
ROADSIP                     Roads Sector Investment Project
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SAS                         Statistical Analysis System
ESP                         Environmental Support Program
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SIDA                        Swedish Intenational Development Authority
SIF                         Social Investmnent Fund
SRPI                        Social Recovery Project
SRP2                        Second Social Recovery Project
ZAMSIF                      Zambia Social Investment Fund
Vice President    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director    Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager.    Laura Frigenti



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
Second Social Recovery Project (SRP II)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5 Major Factors Affecting Implcmentation and Outcome                                  8
6 Sustainability                                                                     10
7 Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9 Partner Comments                                                                   13
10 Additional Infonnation                                                            13
AXex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 18
A.nnex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                20
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     21
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                                 22
Annex 8 Borrower Comments on the ICR                                                 43
Map IBRD 26792R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ProjectllD P003210                                         Project Name: SOCIAL RECOVERY II
Team Leader. Laura Frigenti                                TL Unit AFTH4
ICR Type Core ICR                                          Report Date. Mlvay 9, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL RECOVERY II                              L/(i,YFNumnber: IDA-27550, TF-20036,
TF-21123, TF-20038
Country/Departmient ZAMIA                                                 Region- Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EE - Education Adjustment; HT - Targeted Health;
SA - Social Assistance; WU - Urban Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actutal
PCD   09/08/94                                 Effective- 10/16/95            10/16/95
Appraisal:  03/06/95                                   MTR. 07/15/98              09/15/98
Approval:  06/28/95                                 Closing: 12/31/2000           12131/2000
Borrowver/Implementing Agenev Government of the Republic of Zambia / Ministiy of Finance & Economic
Development
Other Partners SIDA, NORAD
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
V ice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Callisto Madavo
Country AManager-     Yaw Ansu                                  Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:       Dzingai Mutumbuka                          Roger Grawe
Team Leader at KCR:   Laura Frigenti                             Alan Dock
ICR PrimaryAuthor    Hope C. Phillips, Ananya Basu
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(I-LSHighly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL--Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=Ihgh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Inslitulional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfbrmance. S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry.                         S
Project at Risk atAny Time. No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective:
The Second Social Recovety Project (SRP2) aimed to assist the Govemment of the Republic of Zambia's
(GRZ) poverty reduction program through (a) financing of community initiatives and (b) building capacity
for both quantitative and qualitative poverty analysis and monitoring. The community initiatives to be
financed would assist the poor and vulnerable to meet their own objectives during the adjustment period
thereby allowing faster economic and social recovery. As part of the community initiatives, SRP2 was
expected to improve the capacity of communities and government staff to plan, appraise, manage and
maintain investnent projects through experience gained in being involved in sub-projects. The project was
also expected to enhance the capacity of Zambian institutions to collect and analyze poverty-related data.
The objectives of SRP2 were clear and realistic, and derived from experiences learned through
implementation of its predecessor and served to address an area highlighted for assistance from the
International Development Association (IDA) in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), poverty
reduction The objectives were not risky but responsive to the borrower's circumstances and development
priorities.
The range of activities, the national nature, involvement of district level staff in support of community
initiatives, the involvement of two co-financiers and other institutions in the poverty monitoring and
analysis component meant that the objectives could be considered complex These challenges were
handled efficiently and effectively by the implementing agency.
3 2 Revised Objective
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components.
In support of the objective three components were envisaged. (a) community initiatives to finance
sub-projects identified, prepared and implemented by communities and appraised and supervised from the
Micro Projects Unit (MPU) (75.1 %), and financing for capacity building in sub-project implementation
and for decentralized government agencies (17.1%); (b) povcrty monitoring (5 5%) consisting of capacity
building and data collection through Living Conditions Monitoring Surveys (LCMS) and support to a
systematic participatory monitoring and assessment system, and (c) p y    (2.3%) to support
policy relevant research on poverty and social issues in a demand-driven framework, which built upon the
success of the Study Fund under the Social Recovery Project (SRP 1)
The components, as designed, supported and provided a mechanism for achieving the objectives. The
implementing agency, MPU, had the capacity to manage the components, including staff with the necessary
administrative and financial management skills. As a second generation social fund operation, lessons
leamed from SRP1, and participatory assessments informed on the design of the components; experiences
in-country, and social funds generally were taken into account in the components' design
3.4 Revised Components.
Not applicable
3 5 Quality at Entry
Increasing targeted direct assistance to poor and vulnerable groups was seen as one of the mechanisms
necessary in promoting sustainable economic growth and reducing poverty in Zambia, which was the
overall goal of the 1994 CAS At the time of the Project design, GRZ was emphasizing the need to devolve
safety net activities to local groups, and the importance of participatory planning and implementation of
-2 -



interventions by and for the poor. The Project's design meant that it was a cornerstone of the CAS and
supported GRZ's interest in involving not only decentralized structures, but also beneficiaries in identifying
and undertaking activities in their own interest. The environmental assessment rated this Project as
Category C, and based on the types of sub-projects undertaken, the assessment was accurate It should be
noted that there has been a concerted effort to include water and sanitation facilities for sub-projects,
whether or not specifically requested by the community The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified
relevant risks and mitigating measures, and these were by and large accurate The one assumption that was
under-rated was that GRZ would provide the necessary counterpart funding in a budget-constrained
environment The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
41 Ouitcome/achievement of objective-
The Bank's long-term objective in Zambia is to increase incomes and living standards for the vast majority
of the Zambians who are poor The 1999 CAS had a short-term objective of sustaining positive growth
rates and demonstrating that economic reforTns are beginning to bring tangible, measurable benefits to the
Zambian people, especially the poor Two of the Government's priorities, informed through systematic
client consultations, are increasing access to basic services and direct poverty interventions This Project's
objectives, which did not change, are still relevant in the Zambian context and were substantially achieved.
This achievement was against a back-drop of a stagnant economy, stagnating health and education
indicators, and a devastating HIV/AIDS epidemic
While the program was national in scope, with no community excluded, social mobilization focused on the
poorer and more remote communities. In 1991, 69% of all Zambians were living in households with
expenditures below a level sufficient to provide nutrition and basic needs; with 55% unable to meet basic
nutrition needs. Findings from the Social Investment Fund 2000 (SIF 2000) Study indicate that even
though SRP2 resources have been unevenly allocated across districts, it has been fairly effective overall in
reaching the poorest districts and remote areas, and the allocation is progressive and improved over time
(between SRPI and SRP2). Through the community initiatives health and education infrastructure,
identified by communities as their priorities, has been provided, and this has had a positive impact on the
lives of the Zambian people.
The Community Initiatives component continued to build upon support provided under SRP1 to empower
communities to plan, implement and maintain small infrastructure that had been identified by themselves as
a priority to their development efforts Capacity building activities focused not only on communities, but
also on the district level staff in local government and line ministries to assist them in their response to the
demands supported by the Project The provision of training to district level staff also supported the
Government's efforts in decentralization and devolution of responsibility to districts
An expected allocation was prepared, based on population share, by Province, and the actual investments
supported by Province is given in Annex 7, along with the weighted index of poverty Analysis of the
targeting effectiveness of SRP1 and 2 from the SIF 2000 Study showed that a wide net had been cast which
reached poor districts and remote areas Analysis undertaken for the SRPl Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) and the mid-term review of SRP2 shows that there was an improvement between the
distribution of resources from SRPl to SRP2 (see Annex 7) There was a 10% drop in the support
provided to the 20% who were least poor, and a 3% increase in support to the lowest 2 quintiles. The SIF
2000 study supported this conclusion and stated that even though social fund resources were in general
allocated unevenly across districts, the SRP has been fairly effective overall in reaching the poorest districts
and remote areas, and the allocation is progressive and improving over time. The findings also indicated
- 3 -



that while access by some poorer areas was better than by others, and although more demand has been
created, challenges remain in reaching the poorest districts The provision of social infrastructure will also
have a potential positive impact on poverty reduction in the future.
In addition to interviewing communities who had received interventions, the 1998 Beneficiary Assessment
(BA V) also considered district level staff as beneficiaries of the interventions and this cadre was also
consulted The findings indicate that communities felt that the interventions provided through this Project
have greatly assisted them in articulating and meeting their expressed needs. It indicated that technical
supervision provided by the MPU and district level staff ensured effective sub-project management.
However, there was not as explicit a focus on women as envisaged at appraisal This shortfall, identified in
the latter part of the Project, resulted in the provision of gender sensitivity training and increasing the
requirement that 20% of the membership of the community committees must comprise women to 50%
In addition, two signatories to the microproject bank account must be women Requiring a community
contribution in cash or kind has instilled ownership of, and responsibility for, the sub-projects implemented
by the communities, thereby increasing the sustainability of these investments Communities that have
undergone this participatory exercise are better equipped to undertake other development activities, and are
better linked to their district councils and line ministries. Finally, communities thus empowered will take
the initiative to do something about their condition, and only look to external sources when absolutely
required
Under the Poverty Monitoring component, the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) was created in
the Central Statistical Office (CSO) for the collection of quantitative data on individuals, households and
communities. Though the LCMS was envisaged as an annual exercise at appraisal, it was subsequently
agreed that the Survey would be conducted on an approximately bi-annual basis, with smaller surveys in
the intervening years Two rounds of the LCMS were conducted in 1996 and 1998 under SRP II, and the
data was made available for dissemination with negligible delays. The LCMS contributed to the evaluation
of both SRPs and provided data for the SIF 2000 Study, which involved over-sampling areas with
community initiatives. The LCMS data has formed the basis for some further analytical work on poverty
and living standards in Zambia, though this is an area requiring further development.
The Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) was set up to monitor poverty using qualitative techniques
The PAG has worked closely with the LCMU to help build capacity and has participated in the design of
survey modules and questionnaires. Several exercises have been undertaken by PAG to train those working
at grassroots levels in the use of participatory techniques. BAs undertaken by PAG for the community
initiatives component of SRP2 helped refine its design. PAG has developed into an independent
non-govemmental organization (NGO), as anticipated during project design, through its activities for the
wider development community
Under the Poverty Analysis component, a Study Fund financed 5 priority studies and 23 small-scale studies
from a total of 124 proposals received from the research community during SRP II (See Annex 7), and was
fully committed by 1998. The analytical content and policy relevance of proposals were reviewed by a
Committee with representatives from the donor community, NGOs and line ministries prior to funding
being provided. The studies examined a cross-section of issues relating to poverty, including health,
education, environment, labor markets and agriculture. Findings were disseminated through workshops and
distribution of completed studies. A Research Advisor was recruited in 1996, with one of the key functions
being to follow up on the implementation of tie findings of these studies. However, while the policy
recommendations of the priority studies have been implemented to an extent, the implementation of the
-4 -



policy findings of the smaller studies is an area requiring further development In addition, no mechanism
was in place to ensure these studies fed into policy decisions. The follow-on project, ZAMSIF, addresses
this shortcoming by having the function of poverty monitoring and assessment gradually absorbed into the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to ensure that these activities are mainstreamed.
Based on the above, and the output by components described below, achievement of objectives for leaming
by doing is rated as high. Sector policies, physical, financial, institutional development, environment,
poverty reduction and community empowerment are rated as substantial Gender and public sector
management are rated as modest, while macro policies and private sector management are rated as not
applicable
4 2 Outpits by components
The sub-projects funded by the Community Initiatives component were identified, prepared and
implemented by communities who also provided a cash or in-kind contribution The MPU initially
undertook the appraisal and supervision, and relevant district level staff were increasingly involved as their
capacity increased Sectors of intervention were anticipated to include health, education, vocational
training, water and sanitation, economic infrastructure, environment, credit or revolving funds, and safety
net activities (e g, grain banks in food deficit areas, microprojects targeted to women). There was no
discussion in the SAR of the anticipated spread across sectors of the interventions, and, as in SRP 1,
education topped the list (see Annex 7), although health sector interventions benefited the largest number of
people, as beneficiaries are defined as the catchment area. The majority of the projects in health and
education contained a water and sanitation component, but the interventions were only captured as such if
the community specifically requested a stand-alone water/sanitation intervention
The MPU worked closely with line ministry staff in ensuring that sector standards were maintained, and
that the relevant line ministry would cover the anticipated recurrent costs. This component contributed to
sector policies through the provision of physical infrastructure in support of sector policies. To this end the
component contributed positively to sector policies, and is rated as satisfactory. An analysis (undertaken
to review the social investment fund experience in Zambia which compared service availability in health
and education facilities supported by SRP and those which had not) indicated that in both sectors
availability of staff was greater (or less worse) in SRP supported facilities (see Annex 7).
The physical output of the component exceeded, in number, the original estimated (325 vs 300 community
initiatives) and is rated satisfactory. With 90% of the sub-projects with satisfactory technical quality, the
quality of works under this component is acceptable and contributed to the sustainability of this
infrastructure The importance of addressing maintenance, another important aspect of sustainability, once
highlighted by the review missions' infrastructure specialist, was taken on board by the MPU; maintenance
issues were subsequently addressed up-front in sub-projects. The quality of goods supplied under this
component is acceptable with the exception of some school fumiture, of which the durability, and therefore
also the sustainability, is questionable (see Annex attached to the ICR aide memoire). The Bank's team
encouraged the MPU to review standard designs provided by line ministries to ensure that these were
appropriate for infrastructure to be undertaken by communities, and continue its dialogue with line
ministries on this important aspect
The environment is presented as a "special project issue" in the SAR. It notes that environmental concerns
based on the National Environmental Action Plan will be built into micro-project appraisal and monitoring
criteria in the Regional Officers Manual. The SAR expected that SRP2 would have a positive affect on the
environment as a result of environmental projects being eligible and the focus on water and sanitation in
infrastructure rehabilitation; no new construction was envisaged, only rehabilitation. Water and sanitation
- 5 -



were provided under infrastructure microprojects, although few stand-alone environmental proposals were
received; even though there was no explicit environmental emphasis in the objectives, this is rated as
satisfactory (see Annex 7 for main findings) While the microproject forms did not include relevant
environmental impact assessments, an assessment study and guidelines were prepared and these have now
been explicitly built into the follow-on project, Zambia Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF).
This Project was supposed to target interventions to the poor, and while it did not only reach the poor, its
performance improved over its predecessor; in providing schools, water and sanitation, and clinics the
Project contributes to poverty reduction in the future and in this it is rated as satisfactory.
As noted above, the current requirement that 50% of the community project committee be comprised of
women has given women an increased opportunity to actively participate in community affairs. Even
though lessons learned with respect to gender-sensitivity resulted in relevant training being provided at a
later stage in the Project, gender was not mainstreamed, and is rated as unsatisfactory (see Annex 7 for
more detail) in this instance.
The most significant contribution that this component has made is in the area of community empowerment.
Supporting initiatives identified by communities, requiring a contribution in order to engender ownership,
building the capacity of communities to implement and maintain these assets has resulted in more
self-reliant communities, this has been rated as satisfactory.
The component's performance with respect to public sector management in its capacity building of district
level staff is rated as unsatisfactory, as although these was an effort by the implementing agency in
building the capacity of district level staff, it did not succeed to the extent anticipated; these experiences
were fundamental in the design of the follow-on project's more explicit involvement of the district level.
The component did not explicitly support formal private sector development and this is rated as not
applicable However, one indirect benefit of the Project has been the creation of jobs and small scale
enterprises in areas where sub-projects were undertaken. A secondary benefit has been the training
received by communities and contractors, which strengthened their capacity overall
Poverty Monitoring (LCMS and PAG) was designed to provide quantitative and qualitative information on
poverty in the country. In terms of impact on sectoral policies, the achievement is satisfactory, however
further use of LCMS data for policy studies and the implementation of policy findings of completed studies
was not as high as expected, and efforts to improve this are addressed in the follow-on project The
achievement of physical objectives under this component was highly satisfactory, as surveys were
undertaken with negligible delays and the quantitative data provided direction for areas where qualitative
analysis was required and the analysis was undertaken. There were no macroeconomic or financial
objectives, or environmental effects under this component and these are rated as not applicable The
component focused, in its collection of data, on poverty and gender, and the performance of the component
in these respects is rated as satisfactory. Both the private sector development and public sector
management have been rated as not applicable, although the transformation of the PAG into a
self-sustaining NGO is an accomplishment to be noted.
The Poverty Analysis component undertook five priority studies that were embraced by policy makers,
although not all of the recommendations became policy. However, the recommendations arising fiom the
23 small studies have not had any major impact on policy. Overall the studies did have a positive impact
on sectoral policies and a satisfactory rating is merited The physical output of the component was highly
- 6 -



satisfactory as studies were undertaken and no delays were encountered. This component had a
satisfactory contribution to the poverty reduction objectives of the Project, however the gender focus has
been rated as not applicable as applications were not received for gender-related studies The macro
policies, financial, environment, private sector development, and public sector management ratings are not
applicable in this instance.
The institutional development was satisfactory and the findings for each of the components is provided in
the section entitled "Institutional Development Impact"
In summary, the sector policies, physical, financial, institutional development, environmental, poverty
reduction, and community empowerment outputs are all rated as satisfactory. Gender and public sector
management have been rated as unsatisfactory, with macro policies, and private sector development rated
as not applicable. A learning by doing rating of highly satisfactory has been given to reflect the
pro-activeness of both the implementing agency, and the Bank's supervision towards the latter part of the
Project
4 3 Net Present V'alue/Economic rate of returrn.
No NPV or ERR was calculated for the project at appraisal.
4 4 Financial rate of return
An FRR was not calculated
4.5 Institutional development i>npact.
SRP2 aimed not only to strengthen the capacity of communities, but also district level staff to support
community initiatives, the latter being an area identified from SRP I as requiring a focused effort
Communities were trained in order to provide them with appropriate skills to ensure implementation of their
initiatives Staff at district level were trained in SRP principles, technical skills to better supervise
community activities, and participatory skills so as to be able to work with communities to identify their
needs (a summary of training provided by MPU is given in Annex 7)
The latest beneficiary assessment, BA V, found that this capacity building created and/or enhanced
smoother working relationships in a number of districts. In cases where no funding was provided from
SRP2, financial and transport constraints faced by district councils and district-level line ministry staff
precluded regular and frequent visits to communities In cases where technical supervisors and district
staff have provided technical assistance there has been more effective project management; where linkages
have been established between communities and their respective district level staff, communities tend to
work closely together with these staff in non-MPU related projects as well Findings from BA V indicate
that more could be done to build capacity at district level, and training teams have been constituted at the
district level Capacity at district level is variable and it is necessary to build capacity systematically to
fully reap benefits from the involvement of field staff. The BA V findings also indicate that continued
training of district staff in participatory methodologies, technical aspects, and gender sensitivity will
improve their ability to interact with communities and these skills should be imparted to more than one
person per department so as to spread the skill base. Working with district teams should continue to be
promoted as these have been shown to work better than working with individuals from various departments.
Finally, a more coordinated approach by districts could guard against duplication of efforts by various
partners who are supporting development activities in communities These findings have informed on the
design of ZAMSIF.
-7-



To facilitate the linkages between the quantitative and qualitative research, the institutional structure of the
LCMU and PAG was designed to secure exchange and cooperation between the methodologies employed
by each group; representation on each other's technical committees was envisaged as a means to this end.
The two sub-components worked in close collaboration with each other, helped by a physical relocation
that placed their offices nearer to one another. PAG has been consulted by the LCMU in designing the
LCMS, and has supplemented selected LCMS findings through participatory methods Through
undertaking of activities external to SRP2, PAG has emerged as an independent NGO and a recognized
leader in qualitative poverty monitoring, providing training to other actors in the development community
(see Annex 7) Though the LCMS is yet to become sustainable without donor funding, it has formed the
basis of policy analysis and has been used by selected ministries and development agencies for the
collection of data on key indicators such as the incidence of orphanhood,
The Study Fund was initiated to ensure research and studies focused on policy related poverty issues The
purpose was to improve the communication among the research community, policy makers, and
implementers The Study Fund Steering Committee had representation from Government line ministries,
non-governmental organizations, research communities and the donor community Membership increased
from 21 to over 30 during SRP2, although there is evidence that once financing under SRP2 was fully
committed, not all members were active. As shown in Annex 7, after a slow start, 37% of the proposals
submitted in the final year that funding was available received support. Out of the 28 proposals funded, 5
were "Priority Studies" which contributed to policy discussion, and, in some cases, policy formulation in
public welfare assistance, non-governmental organizations, the disabled, basic education, and household
food security and child nutrition. A summary of the priority studies and their impact is also presented in
Annex 7, as well as a description of the smaller studies, the authors and dates each study was undertaken.
Workshops conducted under SRP2 improved the quality of proposals received and the analytical content of
studies perceptibly. However, the ability of researchers to manipulate and analyze data is an area requiring
further development, and the full potential of LCMS data in termns of analysis has not yet been realized
This will continue to be supported under ZAMSIF
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencY
A major factor affecting the financing of community initiatives as initially envisaged was the exchange loss
encountered by the Credit due to the weakening of the special drawing rights (SDR). An amount of
approximately US$ 3 6 million was lost as a result of this
The fall of the Zambian kwacha against the U S dollar caused large price increases for most of the goods
and equipment procured locally, resulting in shortfalls of the sub-project budgets as these were expressed in
Zambia kwacha To counteract these fluctuations, the MPU undertook to express the original microproject
budgets in U S dollar, thereby minimizing "over-expenditures" by individual microprojects.
Although the SAR anticipated that the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) would
provide US$ 1 million for poverty related activities, the final sum provided through co-financing was
reduced by about 50%. Shortfalls in this regard were covered through additional co-financing from
Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), and reallocation of funds from the IDA
credit. The initial shortfall, and delays in accessing funds, resulted in PAG facing constraints in the initial
years in its ability to attract and retain high quality staff
The costs of the LCMS exceeded appraisal estimates by more than 25%. Although this shortfall was
eventually overcome, primarily with the help of NORAD funding, it contributed to minor delays. A lag in
-8-



receiving funding for the LCMS resulted in delays since disbursement was not timed to coincide with
periods of activity A second factor that contributed to the delay in providing data was the cleaning and
tabulation of the 1998 round of LCMS as a result of the formation of new districts within Zambia, which
necessitated a review of the weights
There are some indications of lack of sustained interest in Study Fund activities in the development
community, although some of this has been attributed to the level of personal interest of members of Study
Fund Committee in the selected subjects under discussion
.5 2 Factors generally subject to government control
Assurance by the GRZ that key staff at MPU level were in post has had a highly positive impact on the
outcome of SRP2 Having clear and concise guidelines for accessing funds under the community initiatives
helped guard against political manipulation or participation.
The salary scale of the CSO impacted on their performance GRZ needs to address the issue of finding an
appropriate salary to attract, motivate and retain competent staff, which was a major problem faced by the
Poverty Monitoring component.
One of the increasing constraints faced by the Project related to Government's inability to contribute fully
the counterpart funds that it had expected to receive Out of the expected US$ 3.9 million that the Project
expected to receive, only US$ 0 1 million was received. Based on the construction of the Development
Credit Agreement, GRZ was never in non-compliance with the counterpart fund requirement, and this
potential shortcoming has been addressed under ZAMSIF. However it should also be noted that GRZ
made substantial contribution to the Project by way of institutional support through the provision of office
accommodation, free electricity, and district and line ministry staff who assisted in the supervision of
microprojects. This contribution has not been quantified.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agencY control.
The MPU comprised technical staff shared between community initiatives funded by the European Union
(EU) and IDA, with each Project having its own overall manager Notwithstanding the temporary closing
of the EU unit in June 1998, this arrangement proved to be effective. Administrative costs were within
acceptable limits, and this in part can be attributed to the sharing of staff between the different funding
sources. The Unit's autonomy, and the caliber of staff employed, contributed significantly to the smooth
implementation of the Project. Financial management, procurement efficiency and appropriate utilization
of technical assistance (see Annex 10 for a list of consultancies) were excellent. The MPU has consistently
utilized beneficiary assessments and other evaluations to inform on their effectiveness, and lessons/
recommendations have been readily assimilated into their operations
However, the monitoring system under SRP2 faced several problems. At mid-term review, the
Micro-project Monitoring System (MMS) was identified as having several gaps The existing system was
inflexible, and not amenable to the entry of new data, hampering analysis. The system was redesigned, but
many of the monitoring indicators discussed at appraisal, such as gender-disaggregated data, were either
not collected, or exist and have not been entered into the database. Although analysis has been undertaken,
both through BAs and through over sampling of SRP projects in the LCMS in order to carry out
quantitative analysis, it is not possible to attribute the positive results solely to SRP2. Analysis undertaken
external to SRP2, such as the SIF 2000, indicate that the community initiatives have had a significantly
positive impact on the communities who undertook microprojects. Community participation, the backbone
of the community initiatives, has been more than adequate.
-9-



5.4 Costs and financing
The majority of the IDA funding under this Credit (75%) was for activities undertaken by communities
IDA support in the Project also included capacity building of these communities, district level staff, as well
as the MPU (24%), the remaining amounts supported poverty monitoring and analysis activities. It was
also anticipated that the poverty monitoring and analysis components would receive co-financing from
NORAD for the LCMS, and SIDA would support the PAG and the Study Fund
The amount provided by SIDA was only 50% of the original estimate and was utilized to support the
LCMS and PAG in almost equal proportions. A delay was experienced in the first LCMS as a result of a
lag in setting up the initial NORAD trust fund This delay resulted in the process taking longer than
anticipated as the timing of this type of study is usually planned with a certain degree of precision in order
to ensure that field level activities are not derailed by prevailing weather conditions. The gap resulting
from an underestimate of funds needed to support the LCMS was filled by IDA, and NORAD who
provided funds in addition to the original trust fund established. Shortfalls in funding to the Study Fund
were covered by IDA as well
At Credit inception, the U S dollar equivalent of the SDR was US$ 30 million, however by mid-terrm the
US$ equivalent had shrunk by US$ 3.6 million. Due to the inability to fund community activities up to the
level originally anticipated, the amount comprising beneficiary contribution was reduced as well As a
result of the anticipated shortfalls for funding of microprojects under the community initiatives, eligible
applications were transferred to the EU's arm of the MPU for funding. The institution building and
support component ultimately received only 70% of the anticipated funding from IDA. By September
1998, the available funds in the Credit had been fully committed by the MPU.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationalefor sustainabilitv rating:
The Credit enjoyed the commitment from GRZ and the community initiatives component was designed to
support the envisaged decentralization efforts to be undertaken. The poverty monitoring and analysis
component, as well as the Study Fund, are seen as one of the mechanisms through which GRZ, and its
partners can monitor the poverty situation in-country, as well as be informed through research on relevant
poverty topics. The viability of the community initiatives was improved over the life of the project as a
result of involving and building the capacity of GRZ staff located closer to communities to respond to
community demands Communities have been sensitized about the importance of, and equipped with the
necessary skills to maintain the assets that the Credit assisted in providing. Sustainability of the assets
created under the community initiatives is therefore rated as likely.
Sustainability of the Study Fund is rated as unlikely, since it currently relies on external funding and on the
submission of proposals that are deemed as high priority and relevant by a selection committee with wide
representation The sustainability of the quantitative aspect of the poverty monitoring and analysis
component is unlikely without external funding, given the costs associated with this kind of undertaking
The qualitative aspect of the component is, on the other hand, rated as likely to be sustainable since it has
weaned itself from being supported wholly by the Credit and become an NGO with a respectable client
base
Overall the sustainability is rated as likely, particularly since the Bank is supporting a follow-on project,
designed on the basis of lessons learned from this Project
- 10-



6.2 Tranisition arrangenment to regular operations.
The design of SRP2 presumed that the Credit would be the last one required for supporting community
initiatives, since local government structures, policies and funding would be in place to carry on the
activities; this assumption was to be reviewed at mid-term The findings at mid-term indicated that the
building of capacity at the local level in order to transfer the planning, appraising, approving and financing
of community initiatives did not progress as rapidly as was originally planned, and a follow-on project was
requested by the Government.
In pursuing the expressed desire of Government to continually institutionalize demand driven activities, and
to further build the capacity of a deccntralized structure to do so, a follow-on Project (ZAMSIF) has been
signed between GRZ and IDA. It has been designed to build on community initiatives undertaken under
SRP2, but with an increased cmphasis on capacity support to the district level to allow them to gradually
take over the planning, appraisal and supervision of community initiatives In addition, eligible districts
will also receive funds over which they have approval authority to finance community initiatives. ZAMSIF
will be supporting the transitional phase of formally institutionalizing poverty monitoring and analysis
within GRZ's structures, this support is anticipated to bridge the gap between a Project operation and a
regular operation. The Poverty Monitoring and Analysis component will continue to strengthen the
institutional, technical and financial framework for sustainable monitoring and policy use of poverty
information These activities are in support of the National Poverty Reduction Strategic Plan and the
National Decentralization Policy.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending:
SRP2 was identified as a follow on to SRP1 and the concept document prepared in September 1994. It
was consistent with GRZ's development strategy and the CAS. The design was simple and endeavored to
build upon not only on the successes, but lessons that had been derived, from SRP 1 Appraisal of the
Credit took place six months after identification and included specialists in beneficiary assessments and
social surveys, as well as representatives from the co-financiers, NORAD and SIDA The GRZ team
consisted of key representatives from the MPU as well as the CSO and PAG. The SAR clearly lays out
lessons from SRP 1 and notes GRZ commitment, as well as those of the implementing agency and
beneficiaries Risks were well articulated and, in most cases, included mitigation measures. Given the
uncertainty of the socio-economic environment in-country at the time, the assumption that sufficient
capacity would have been built, as district level, to enable the program to continue without external
assistance was overly optimistic. Howcvcr, the design indicated that this would have to be assessed during
the mid-term review and a decision taken at that time Monitoring indicators were prepared, however no
base-line data given against which to measure achievements. The preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision
The skill mix of people supervising the Credit was appropriate initially, became marginal, but improved
during the latter part of the Credit There were four task managers over the life of the Credit and
supervision in the first years was undertaken in conjunction with reviews of other IDA projects and the
Project received less attention than it merited. The borrower noted that some task managers were more
visible than others The Form 590s in the system indicate that in the first two years of the Credit field
visits only took place on an annual basis The FY98 Quality of Supervision Assessment gave an overall
rating of marginal, and an unsatisfactory rating for advice and solutions to borrower. A mid-term review
was undertaken, at which time the project was retrofitted and monitorable indicators agreed upon, and the
need for follow-on assistance identified that culminated in GRZ seeking a follow-on credit Supervision in
the last two years took place on a semi-annual basis, with greater involvement of Country Office staff. The
- 11 -



Bank's support to the Credit in the latter part of the Project was constructive and provided a broader
perspective on social fund experiences. A second Quality Assessment was undertaken in FY99 and the
overall rating of satisfactory was given, noting that supervision had recovered from set-backs in earlier
years. Consultations were always held with co-financiers, interested donors and the Government during
each mission and the relationship between all parties was cordial. Based on the recovery in the latter years,
the supervision is rated as satisfactory.
7.3 (Oerall Bankperformance
Based on the above, the Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory
Borrover
7 4 Preparation.
Preparation of the Credit by the Borrower is rated as highly satisfactory The project was prepared almost
entirely by the borrower The teamn responsible for the preparation consisted of the appropriate skills and
representation from relevant ministries. The design, as noted above, took into account lessons learned from
SRP 1 so as to ensure the best likelihood of achieving the objectives The design also envisaged the
possibility of transferring responsibility for community demand-driven activities to districts with the
necessary capacity, thereby providing support for decentralization initiatives.
7.5 Gov,ernment implementation performance
Government's implementation performance has been difficult to rate. Those with overall responsibility in
the Govemment were committed to and supported SRP2. However the provision of counterpart funds by
GRZ was unsatisfactory as noted above. This, however, should be tempered with the recognition that
support from the GRZ has been provided through staff time and expertise at the district level in support of
community activities, there has been no quantification of this. Potential political manipulation, or
participation, was minimized through clear guidelines on how to access funds, and support to the
implementing agency in their interaction with these potential participants. Government's performance is
therefore rated as satisfactory.
7 6 Implementing Agency.
The MPU stands out as one of the most efficient and, in many instances, pro-active implementing agencies
The caliber of staff in the Unit was top-notch, and had the appropriate skill mix, there were only a few
instances when procurement had to be repeated. Covenants were complied with in a timely manner and
progress reports were produced on a regular basis. The only criticism relates to monitoring and evaluation
While the Unit contracted for, and made use of the recommendations of, BAs as well as other technical
evaluations, in-house capacity for monitoring and evaluation of indicators was lacking This has been
addressed through the creation of a post, in ZAMSIF, for monitoring and evaluation, as well as the setting
up of a management monitoring system that is responsive to ZAMSIF's needs. The implementing agency's
performance is rated as highly satisfactory
7.7 Overall Borrower performance
The Borrower's performnance is rated overall as satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
* Involvement of district level staff (both in local government and line ministries) in the provision of
technical support to communities has been beneficial to all concemed; there is improved efficiency in
the provision of services closer to the users, government officials become accountable to the
community, and a partner in the communities' developmental efforts
*   Capacity of district level staff to plan, appraise, approve and finance community initiatives is variable,
- 12 -



and, although it will take time, their capacities should be strengthened in a systematic way before they
can take over these functions.
*   Continued training of district staff in participatory methodologies, technical aspects, and gender
sensitivity will improve their ability to interact with communities. These skills should be imparted to
more than one person per department so as to spread the skill base, and districts teams should continue
to be promoted as these have been shown to work better than individual members from various
departments.
*   Requiring community contributions instills a sense of ownership and responsibility for sub-projects,
thus increasing sustainability. Communities that have undergone this participatory exercise are better
equipped to undertake other development activities, and are better linked to their district councils and
line ministries. Finally, communities thus empowered will take the initiative to do something about
their condition, and only look to external sources when absolutely required.
*   A more coordinated approach to development in the districts could mitigate duplication of efforts by
various partners who are supporting development activities in communities.
*   Maintenance issues, that are key to sustainability of the assets created, are currently addressed up-front
in the community initiatives cycle. Qualitative analysis should be undertaken to determine the impact
iat the current interventions have on sustainability.
*   The use of standard designs should be tempered with the capacity of those implementing
* The requirement that 50% of the project committee be comprised of women has increased the
decision-making role that women play in community affairs, however continued gender sensitization of
all participants will further empower women.
* Providing formal linkages between those undertaking qualitative analysis and those carrying out
quantitative analysis can provide government, NGOs, and donors with more robust information on
which to discuss, debate and formulate poverty related policies
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency
Government has advised that they have no comments
(b) Cofinanciers.
No comments were received from co-financiers.
(c) Other partners (NGOslpri vate sector)
10. Additional Information
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorslLog Frame Matrix
Outcome  Im  act Indicators:
~~~~~~~~~~~~W_
Number of beneficlaries by age and sex                                       Total 857,724, assume 50% female
<45 years 6,285,14-20 years 18,169, 7-13
years 194,739, others 638,531
Change in number of pupils attending school                                  not available
Change in number of trained teachers                                         30 2 in 1998 in SRP facilities, 15 6 in
non-SRP facilities
Grade 7 passes                                                               not available
Number of requests from policy makers for                                    5
specific investigations on policy related
issues from the PAG
Uptake of recommendations in PAG reports                                     3
by policy makers in Govemment, donor
agencies & NGOs
Use of outputs provided by PAG in                                            not available
reorienting and fine-tuning the design of the
LCMU surveys
Output Indicators:
Number of completed projects                                                 325
Number of completed projects with                                            293
satisfactory technical quality
Number of workshops and desk appraisal                                       not available
meetings
Length of time between applications, desk                                    not available
appraisal, field appraisal, allocations and
completion
Number of requests for data from the LCMS                                    not available
Time elapsed between the collection of data                                  approximately one year
and the publishing of the LCMU annual
report
Number of studies offered and completed                                      124 applications, 28 funded
under the Study Fund Component
Number of researchers involved in the                                        50
Poverty Anaiysis (Study Fund) Component
End of project
Please see Annex 7 for additional indicators for which data is available.
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Cor onent (in US$ million equivalent)
Community Initiatives
Sub-projects                                       35 80           25.62           71.56
histitution building and support                     8.10           5 12           63 21
Poverty Monitoring
Participatory poverty analysis                       0.80            0.21          26 25
LCMU                                                 1 90           2.42          127.37
Poverty Analysis (Study Fund)                          1.10            1.07           97.27
Total Baseline Cost                                   47.70           34 44
Total Project Costs              47 70           34 44
Total Financing Required               47.70           34 44
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        0.00            6.60         12 50         12.20-        31.30
(0.00)         (5.90)        (10 60)       (0.00)       (1 6.50)
2. Goods                        0.30            1.20          4 40          0.00         5.90'
(0.30)         (1.20)        (3.90)        (0 00)       (5 40)
3. Services                     0.00            0.00          3 80          0 40         4.20
(0.00)         (0 00)        (3 80)        (0.00)       (3 80)
4. Studies and Surveys          0.00            0.00          1.50          3 00         4 50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.50)        (0.00)       (1 50)
5. Vehicles and equipment       0.40            0.80          0.40          0.00         1 60
(0.40)         (0.80)        (0.40)        (0 00)       (1 60)
6. Incremental recurrent        0.00            0.00          1 20          0.00         1.20
co_sts                         (0 00)          (0 00)        (1.20)         0.00)       (1.20)
Total                        0.70            8.60         23 80          15.60        48 70
(0.70)         (7.90)         21.40)       (0 00)       (30 00)
Services includes mnicroproject training, consultart services and capacity building.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
11. Works                     0.00         1.13.20                      5 12         20 22
(          (I 90)       (13 20)       (0.00)       (15.10)
-15 -



2. Goods                         0.73           0.90           3.25           0 00           4.88
(0.73)         (0 90)         (3.25)         (0 00)        (4 88)
3. Services                      0 00           0.00           2.94           0.00           2 94
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2 94)         (0.00)        (2.94)
4. Studies and Surveys           0.00            0 00          3 70           0.00           3.70
(0 00)         (0.00)         (0.84)         (0.00)        (0.84)
5. Vehicles and equipment        0.33           0.00           0.40           0.00           0.73
(0.33)         (0 00)         (0.40)         (0.00)        (0.73)
6. Incremental recurrent         0.00           0 00           1 87           0 10           1.97
costs                           (0.00)          (0.00)         (1 87)        (0.00)         (1.87)
Total                         1.06           2.80           25.36          5.22          34 44
(1.06)         (2.80)        (22.50)         (0.00)        (26 36)
N.B.F. includes 5.12 comunaity contribution, and 0.10 GRZ contribution
'/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent
.W'
Community Initiatives    22 50      13 30      0.00      20.50      5.12      0.00     91.1   38.5    0 0
Institution Building and  7.20      0 90       0 00      5.02       0 10      0.00     69.7   11.1    0 0
Support
Poverty Monitoring        0.00      0.50       1 40      0 29       0 00      2 13      0 0    0.0   152 1
(LCMS)
Poverty Monitoring        0.10      0.00       0.70      0.00       0 00      0.21      0.0    0.0   30 0
(PAG)
Poverty Analysis (Study   0.20      0 00       0.90      0 55       0 00      0 52    275.0   0.0   57 8
Fund)
Government colunm under community initiatives includes beneficiaries' contributions of 10.8 at appraisal,
and 5.12 actual
- 16 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                             ._._._._--_._.                                                     _
S.of iet>la3i; .........  PN-lt gl0  o.ig ..... . ....... a    ;tg;pig0ji0lej L0: 
~~~~~~ Na  fProsa4Seialty                                                         efnnn
(  -g. :2 E:cQ .owstits JMS, ectc.) i        Iibmpl eio    Deve lo p t
..........       Counti          Secat                              rgs            Objtv
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/95                         8   Sr. Education Specialist
BA Specialist
Economist/Social Survey
Specialist
Policy Analyst
2 donor representatives
Operations Officer
Team Assistant
Supervision                 
2/96                          4   Sr. Education Specialist               S                S
Policy Analyst
Operations Officer
Architect
3/97                          5   Sr. Education Specialist               S               S
Participatory Specialist
Statistics Specialist
Operations Officer
Statistician
2/98                          4   Sr Economist                           S                S
Operations Officer
Statistician
Architect
9/98                          7   Economist                              S                S
Operations Analyst
Sr EconomistlPoverty Specialist
Informatics Specialist
Procurement Officer
Procurement Specialist
Financial Officer
2/99                          1   Project Officer
6/99                          2   Social Scientist                       S                S
Project Officer
- 18 -



11/99                          4   Social Scientist                          S                S
Operations Analyst
Operations Officer
Architect
ICR
3/00                           4    Operations Officer
Research Economist
Architect
Social Development
Specialist
(b) Staff
st      ofPr,,jec    cle   M- ::             ::A al/LatestEstimate
..._..._.._._....._....._.._.._-No. Staff weks                          US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   28 72                            91.2
AppraisaVNegotiation                           8.3                            25 7
Supervision                                   89.8                         259.05
ICR                                           9 08                              39
Total                                        135.9                          414.95
.9_



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(W=High, SU=Substmtial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA-=Not Applicable)
Rating
LO Macropolicies                          O H  OSUJ OM  ON   * NA
El Sector Policies                        OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
El Physical                               O H  *SUOM  ON   O NA
El Financial                              OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
N PovertyReduction                 OH       SU O M  O N  0 NA
F Gender                           O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
F Other (Please specify            OH H  *SUOM  0 N  0 NA
Community Empowerment
El Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0    0 N  0 NA
N Other (Pleasespecify)                   * H  O SU O M  ON N  O NA
Learning by Doing
-20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HU=Highly Unsatisfactoly)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
J Lending                                           OHS *S OLU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU   OHU
D Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
62 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  u  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                *HS OS   O U   O HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS   O U  O HU
-21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
This annex contains annexes referenced in the text.
Expected vs. Actual Allocation of Funds to Districts*
Population WIP** Expected US$   Actual US$    Difference
Investment   Investment
Central    1,014,433   10.72    2,465,600      950,000    -1,515,600
Copperbelt  1,837,243   13.75    3,162,500   4,560,000     1,397,500
Eastern    1,298,345   13 96    3,210,800    2,180,000    -1,030,800
Luapula     694,355    7 58    1,743,400     1,330,000     -413,400
Lusaka     1,531,141   10 69    2,458,700    1,640,000     -818,700
Northern   1,206,359   14.16    3,256,800    3,030,000     -226,800
Nortiwest    567,841    5 41    1,244,300    3,280,000     2,035,700
Southem    1,260,867   12.71    2,923,300    3,060,000      136,700
Western     761,482   11 01    2,532,300     2,930,000      397,700
Source MPU
* Data excludes funding provided through Micro Projects Program, Basic Education Sub-Sector Investment
Program (BES SIP) and CTI
** The Weighted Index of Poverty is based on a composite index utilizing several different indicators weighted by
population and level of deprivation It was developed by Professor V. Seshamrani for UNICEF and is reported
in Deprivation in Zambia District Level Profiles and Rankings Based on an Index of Deprivation, August
2000 draft.
Beneficiary by Type
Type                  Numbers
Adults < 45 years             6,285
All Categories              638,531
Children 7-16 years         194,739
Pupils 14-20 years           18,169
TOTAL                       857,724
- 22 -



Distribution of SRP Resources, According to Poverty
Quintiles Based on       % of SRP I        Per Capita        % of SRP 1I        Per Capita
Population            Resources       Expenditures        Resources         Expenditures
SRP I                                SRP II
Quintile 1 - poorest 20%         22%              $2 23              21%               $2 20
Quintile 2                       22%              $2 37              26%                $2.91
Quintile 3                       21%              $2 40              20%               $2.36
Quirtile 4                       16%              $1.70              22%               $2.47
Quintle 5 - least poor 20%       20%              $2.15              10%                $1.13
National Average                                  $2.17                                $2 21
Source SRP1 ICR and Midtenn Review of SRP2
Study Fund Proposals Received by Province by Year
Province           1995      1996      1997     1998      Total
Lusaka                    13         24       37        23        97
Central                    5          2        2          1       10
Southern                   1         2         3         2         8
Eastern                               1        1                   2
Western                                                            0
Northern                                       1                   1
North-western                         1        1          1        3
Luapula                                                            0
Copperbelt                 2                   1                   3
TOTAL RECEIVED            21         30       46        27       124
PROPOSALS FUNDED           6          5        7         10       28
% FUNDED                 28.57%    16.67%    15.22%    37.04%    22 58%
There was a marked increase in the number of proposals received by the Study Fund during SRP2, due to the fact
that knowledge, and relevance, of the fund was more widespread among government, researchers, and relevant
institutions. As in SRPI, the majority of the proposals came from researchers based in Lusaka
- 23 -



Proposals Funded by Sector by Year
SectorlArea of Study     1995       1996        1997       1998       Total      Sector
Health                      I           1          2         0 7          4       14.29%
Education                                                     1           1       03.57%
Poverty                     2                      1          1           4       14 29%
Nutrition, food security                                     1            1       03 57%
Community development                  2           1         1            4       14 29%
Agric/Agro industry         I           1                    5           7        25 00%
Macro-economics             2                      1         1            4       14 29%
Enviromnent                             1          2                      3       10.71%
TOTALFUJNDED                6          5           7        10           28      100 00%
The Fund was fully commnitted by 1998, hence no studies were undertaken in 1999. Out of the 28 completed
studies, 5 were priority studies and 23 were small-scale studies The priority studies were
Study Fund Priority Studies under SRP2
Date                 Title                                          Results
1996/97    Eligibility Criteria for the    Commissioned as a result of findings made from a Study Fund study.
Identification of Clients and   Aimed at developing eligibility criteria for selection of PWAS clients
Guidelines for the Implementation   as well as provide details for the restructured PWAS. Led to
of the Reformed Public Welfare  development of community-based, transparent criteria for
Assistance Scheme (PWAS)        identification of PWAS clients, institutional and procedural
requirements for the implementation of the new PWAS, as well as a
pilot scheme to test the new criteria and recommended institutional
arrangements.
1996/97    NGO Policy for Zambia           The study was undertaken in collaboration with the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services Provided clear and
focused policy guidelines for collaboration between government and
NGOs on issues such as social safety nets and possibly shedding these
responsibilities to NGOs. Cabinet approved the report in principle by
late 1997 and the Policy has since been adopted.
- 24 -



1997/98    Evaluation of the National Trust    The study was undertaken in collaboration with the Ministry of
for the Disabled                Community Development and Social Services The Trust, established
in 1994, was a credit scheme forpersons with disabilities The
enactment of the Persons with Disabilities Act of 1996 and the
establishment of an agency for Persons with Disabilities as an
umbrella organization for persons with disabilities, necessitated an
evaluation of how the Trust would fit in the new structure, and
developing a framework for appropriate operational systems. The
Trust has been restructured and re-capitalized on the basis of the
study recommendations.
1998/99    Basic Education for Some:       The study was undertaken in collaboration with the Ministry of
Factors Affecting Primary School   Education The main purpose was to determine the nature, scope of,
Attendance in Zambia            and major factors affecting low primnary school attendance rates and
recommend policy solutions. An ownership meeting was held with
senior members of the Ministry and the findings well received A
wider dissemination workshop was never held
1998/99    Household Food Security and     The study was undertaken by the Household Food Security, Health
Child Nutrition in Zambia:      and Nutrition Monitoring System with international assistance, and
Status, Trends and Key         based on Priority Surveys 1 and 2, as well as the Living Conditions
Determinants                    Monitoring Study of 1996 Staff from UNICEF, National Food and
Nutrition Commission, Zambia Integrated Health Project, and the
University also sat on the technical review team The dissemination
workshop was officiated by the Minister of Finance and Economic
Development, with representation from the Government, UN family,
NGOs and the media.
1998/99    Atlas of Poverty and Social     In collaboration with UNICEF terms of reference were developed to
Indicators in Zambia            portray visually some critical social indicators in map form and to
facilitate policy development, resource allocation and serve as a tool
for advocacy. The atlas was compiled utilizing the 1996 LCMS, the
1990 Census, the 1992 and 1996 Demographic Health Surveys, the
1996 primary school returns from the Ministry of Education, and the
vulnerability index Findings were presented to major stakeholders.
1998/99    SIF 2000. Impact of Social Funds   Upon request by the Wordd Bank, the Study Fund coordinated and
on Social Delivery in Education  managed this Study, aimed at providing information relating to the
and Health Sectors             impact of social funds on micro-projects in Zambia with a particular
emphasis on improvements in the quality of social infrastructure,
access to the same, educational and health status, as well as
conununity participation. The Study formed part of the background
infonnation comparing social fund impact indicators and design
characteristics across countries.
-25 -



1998/99    Situation Analysis of Orphans and   A study undertaken in collaboration between the Study Fund, PAG,
Vulnerable Children in Zambia   UNICEF and USAID to understand the current situation of orphaned
children in Zambia and assess current models of care in order to
strengthen and improve strategies that aim to address the needs of
those supporting orphans and vulnerable children Five separate
studies were undertaken (a) literature review, (b) data review and
enumeration, (c) institutional responses, (d) community responses,
and (e) the perceptions of care. A National Planning Workshop,
convened by the Ministry of Sports, Youth and Child Development in
collaboration with the ministries of Health, Education, Community
and Social Services, and Finance and Economic Development was
attended by around 200 representatives from govemment NGOs,
community based organizations and donor agencies. The report was
extensively disseminated and has been used and acknowledged by
stakeholders
Small Studies Supported by SRP II Study Fund
Title                             Authorfs              Year
Completed
I     Economics of Maize Production and Marketing    L Bangwe,                    1996
under a Liberalized Market. A Case Study of    M Hichaambwa
Monze                                          G. Simalyata,
M M. Chiboola & J. Sepe
2     The Hammer-mill Industry in Zamnbia            J Temba                      1997
3     Demographic Characteristics, Care and Support for   M.M. Kamwengo           1997
the Aged in Zambia
4     An Assessment of the 1995/6 Programme against  G P.A. Banda, N. Mutoti,     1997
Malnutrition (PAM) Drought Food Relief         B. Mwiinga,
Programme                                      H.M. Sichingabula &
J.K Phiri
5     Impact of Free Market Reforms on Small-holder  D.L. Mulozi,                 1997
Rice Production in Western province: Towards a  M. Hichaambwa
Framework for the Implementation of Sustainable
Community based Small-holder Rice Development
Programmes
6     Traditional Channels of Sex Infonnation        A. Kapungwe                   1997
Communication and the Fight against HIV/AIDS
The case of Puberty Rites
7     Agro Pastrolism and Trade Liberalization among  P.M. Sikana                  1997
Traditional Cattle Keepers of the Bulozi Flood
Plains
- 26 -



8     Lusaka Longitudinal Cohort Study: Results of   C. Mbizule                   1997
Baseline Study in Peri-urban Lusaka
9     An Investigation into the Problem of Refuse upon  J. Mayeya, C. Mukosa      1997
Health: Mtendere Compound (Main Study)
10     Informal Sector Business Activities in Lusaka  M.S. Tolosi                  1997
Urban District under SAP
11     The Zambian Labour Markets under Economic      D.K. Chiwele,                1997
Adjustment                                     0 Chiganya
12     Urban-rural Migration of Zamnbian Retirees     L Mukuka                     1997
Re-adjustment and Contribution to Rural
Development
13     The Incidences of Child Labour in Zambia       S Kamocha, P.K. Phiri &      1997
M. Temba
14     Assessment of Solar Energy Dissemination       CEEZE                        1997
Application in Zambia
15     New Forms in the Infonnal Sector after 1990: An  L B. Imboela               1997
Investigation of the Socio-economic Characteristics
of the Tuntemba Business People and their Role in
Household Survival Strategies in Zambia Cities
16     Effect of Market Liberalization on Fertilizer Supply   S.S. Mwale, L M. Mawele  1998
17     Evaluation of the National Trust for the Disabled  Afro development Services  1998
(NTD)
18     Prospects of Targeting Agro Credit on High Value    D.C. Lyanda             1998
Enterprises undertaken by Small-Scale Farmers in
Zambia's Liberalized Economy. From a Gender
Perspective
19     The Contribution of Female-headed Households to    A.C. Phiri, M  Sooka,    1998
Agricultural Production in Zambia             N. Majaka
20     An Economic Analysis of the Money Demand       N Mutoti                     1998
Function in Zambia
21     The Quality of Child Health and its effects on  B M. Chilopa,               1998
under-five Morbidity in Zambia: The Case of    D. Simambo
Diarrhea
22     An Assessment of the Structures and Dimensions of   W. Chama, L.K Mwape     1998
Mutual Aid among the urban Poor The Case of
Lusaka and Kafue Districts
23     Trends and Characteristics of Youth            W. Mayaka\G Moyo             1999
Unemployment in Zambia
- 27 -



24     Comparative Poverty Profile: Adjusted Expenditure   P.K Miti, S. Kamocha,       1999
vs Unadjusted Expenditure                        T. Munalula & E Chulu
25     The Effectiveness of Benefit Sharing Schemes in  E Hachileka,                   1999
Conununity Based Wildlife Resource Management    M. Chundama
Programmes in Zambia                             C. Mupimpila
26     Household Food Security and Child Nutrition in   J.K. Luma,                     1999
Zambia. Status, Trends and Key Determinants     M N. Hambayi,
A. Mwanaumo,
P. Kasonde & S.K Range
Microprojects by Sector Summary of Targets Approved SRP II, since 1995
Targets                Type of Work           Total
Classrooms                 New                           220
Rehab/Completion            1,491
Teachers houses            New                           272
Rehab/Completion             481
Clinics                    New                            12
Rehab/Completion               10
Wards including maternity   New                           17
Rehab/Completion               11
Relatives shelters         New                            14
Health staff houses        New                            49
Rehab/Completion               13
Tank and stand             New                            21
Borehole                   New                            96
Wells                      New                            54
Ablution blocks            New                            32
Rehab/Completion              160
VIPs                                                   2,437
Sewerage systems & ponds   New/Rehab                      14
Markets                    New                             1
- 28 -



Education Facilities
Education Sector                SRP Facilities    Non-SRP Facilities
Classes Outside (%)                                12                  24
Sanitation
Students per regular latrine                    186                188
Students per ventilated pit latrine              68                700
Students per flush toilet                       108                 83
Water
Schools with unsafe water (%)                    19                 24
Schools with water always available (%)          60                  36
Electricity
Schools with electricity (%/o)                   60                  32
Schools with electricity always available (%)    51                 32
Health Facilities
Number of Rooms           Social Fund Facilities       Non-SF Facilities
Delivery rooms                         1.2                        0 6
Examination rooms                      1.9                        10
Patient wards (rooms)                 4.1                         2.9
Dispensaries                           1.0                        0.9
Administrative offices                2.4                         1.9
Storerooms                            2.2                         1.4
Family/relative shelter              0.75                         0.5
Staff houses                          4.8                         4 9
Other                                 2.4                         1.6
Total medical rooms                    10                           7
Total rooms                            21                          16
- 29 -



Availability of Teachers
Social Fund Facilities   Non-SF Facilities
Teachers (1998)                      30.2                  15.6
Teachers (1992)                      28.8                  15 4
Rural teachers (1998)                11.5                  10.0
Rural teachers (1992)                12.5                  13.1
Urban teachers (1998)                40 2                  24 1
Urban teachers (1992)                37.3                  18.7
Source: Impact Evaluation of the Zambia Social Fund, November 2000, Robert S Chase (Johns Hopkins
University), Lynne Sherburne-Benz, (The World Bank)
Percent Change in Health Staff between 1993 and 1998
Social Fund Facilities    Non-SF Facilities
Doctors                         30                   -33
Cliniical officers             -16                   -15
Public health nurse             So                   -67
Registered nurse               -35                   -89
Registered mid-wife              2                    -25
Family health nurse            -11                   -25
Enrolled nurse                   -3                  -22
Source: Impact Evaluation of the Zambia Social Fund, November 2000, Robert S Chase (Johns Hopkins
University), Lynne Sherbume-Benz, (The World Bank)
- 30 -



Percentage Change in Availability of Services, Health Facilities
Service          Social Fund Facilities    Non-SF Facilities
Family planning                 316                    73
Ante-natal care                  69                    -9
Under 5 care                     75                    -7
Community outreach               64                   -25
School outreach                   8                     0
Other hours                      23                   -21
Total hours                      90                    -2
Source: hnpact Evaluation of the Zambia Social Fund, November 2000, Robert S Chase (Johns Hopkins
University), Lynne Sherbume-Benz, (The World Bank)
Effectiveness of subprojects
The effectiveness of sub-projects is determined by (a) the physical infrastructure undertaken being
suitable for the services required; (b) the services effectively being provided in a sustainable manner once
the infrastructure is completed, and (c) the functionality of the infrastructure being maintained The
suitability of the infrastructure for the services required is determined through the preparation of standard
plans and specifications and the appraisal process, where community needs are quantified into sub-project
activities. Whether services are effectively provided in a sustainable manner after the completion of the
infrastructure depends on the fulfillment of commitments by sector ministries towards the functional
operation of the sub-project. Finally maintaining the functionality of the infrastructure relies on the quality
and durability of the original product, and timely and effective maintenance of infrastructure, furniture and
equipment.
hnaccurate appraisal conclusions and the use of standard designs for health facilities that were not
adequately elaborated in terms of functionality have been found, in some instances, to lead to ineffective
infrastructure The fulfillment of commitments by the sector ministry to the provision of adequate human
resources and other operational needs appeared as a problem more often in the health sector than in the
education sector. The knowledge of communities on the importance of maintenance issues, and their
capacity in this regard, are nascent This is a weak aspect with regard to the long-term sustainability of
sub-projects or components, in particular of maintenance-sensitive school furniture, as encountered in a
number of sub-projects visited.
If cost aspects are merged with considerations of effectiveness, it becomes clear that the cost-effectiveness
of educational sub-projects, which constitute 80% of the total, is usually good, apart from maintenance-
sensitive school furniture. In some cases the cost-effectiveness of health sector sub-projects, which form
12% of the total, is rather poor, due to shortcomings related to effectiveness While noting that there is
room for improvement of the cost-effectiveness of certain sub-project components, it is concluded that the
average cost-effectiveness of SRP2 sub-projects issatisfactory.
- 31 -



Summary of Environmental Impact Study and Guidelines
Prepared for ZAMSIF
6 July 2000
by Chalo Environment & Sustainable Development Consultants
As part of the preparatory work for ZAMSIF, an environmental impact study was undertaken for
sub-projects undertaken, 15 through MPU, a rural health center funded by IDA with limited community
participation, and a water well project supported by the Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) under the
Environmental Support Program (SEP). Major environmental concerns associated with existing
infrastructure, new infrastructure, and issues surrounding mainstreaming environmental concerns in the
sub-project cycle were identified. A summary of the recommendations are given below
Existing infrastructure
* Sheet and gully erosion of soils. The occurrence of this around sub-project sites should be identified
and assessed by communities at project identification stage. They should be assisted to realize the
effects of soil erosion if not addressed in their projects. District Teamns should verify this and
recommend mitigation measures.
* De-vegetation. Where this has occurred at sub-project sites, mitigation measures should be included in
the sub-project.
* Termite infestation. There are standard designs for militating against this and these should be utilized
for sub-projects; treatment for termites should continue to be budgeted for under maintenance, siting of
sub-projects as discussed in the MPU manuals must be enforced
* Poor siting/location. Communities should be sensitized to the need to develop simple resource maps
and land use plans, communities should be assisted in considering environmental factors such as water
points, slopes, soil types and locate infrastructure on suitable sites
3 Shortage of land around project sites The impact of new projects on existing settlement patterns
should be appraised; where resettlement arises compensation for displacement should be considered (so
far this has not been an issue).
New microprojects
a Quarries for stones and sand mining Ensure that these are not left uncovered at the end of use so as
to avoid the collection of water where mosquitoes can breed, or snakes converge; to avoid siltation do
not locate these near streams and rivers; avoid human settlements; ensure adequate backfilling of
quarries where trees can be planted if they are used as landfills
* Off-site deforestation. Communities should be sensitized to the effects and required to plant fast
growing tree species where feasible; if adequate materials (sand and concrete) are available, use
concrete blocks rather than pan bricks should be encouraged.
* Lack of/inappropriate medical waste disposal facilities. Sub-project plans must indicate operational
needs; all aspects, from collection to disposal, should be provided for; separate medical/hazardous
waste from domestic waste; encourage community participation in preparing appropriate disposal
facilities; site disposal taking into account water points, seasonal/perennial streams, wetland areas,
social amenities (e.g., playgrounds), sensitize communities on risk of both soil and water contamination
if waste not properly disposed of.
Gender analysis
SRP2 did not succeed in mainstreaming gender into all components However, the project is commended
for taking steps to address gender issues, based on lessons learned during the course of its life. The ICR
- 32 -



team will seek guidance on whether to rate the achievement of gender objective as satisfactory or
unsatisfactory.
Community initiatives
It was intended that during identification of micro-projects, field appraisal criteria would include a review
of involvement of women, and micro-projects benefiting women would receive higher priority for funding.
However, this recommendation of the Staff Appraisal Report was not followed systematically. The
micro-project database also does not maintain gender-disaggregated data that allows gender-specific
monitoring of the impact of the component.
At the same time, various studies were undertaken in order to identify gender issues that affected the
component. The main finding of the studies was that even though SRP2 addressed the basic practical needs
of women, women's priorities were seldom taken into account during SRP I and the initial phase of SRP2.
Though women contributed labor, they seldom participated in decision-making Based on these findings, a
number of steps were taken during the second half of the project SRP2 initiated a policy whereby at least
50% of project conimittee membership had to be women. Special measures to gender-sensitize staff and
CBOs were also adopted.
Studies to formulate the gender strategy of ZAMSIF suggest that while this policy was a good start, it was
not enough to ensure women's participation A survey of CBO organizations suggest that while all CBOs
were familiar with gender issues, few had devised practical strategies to incorporate gender into
micro-projects Over 70% of CBO comnmittees surveyed were dominated by men. Even where the 50/50
rule was implemented, top positions in the committees were occupied by men.
Based on these findings, a more comprehensive effort to mainstream gender issues in discernible under
ZAMSIF. District-level workshops will be conducted for the training and gender sensitization of existing
and newly formed CBOs. Micro-project application forms will include information on women's priorities
and benefits based on discussions at the community level Women's CBOs will be given priority for
funding. Benefits to women will also be monitored during implementation.
Poverty monitoring
The collection of survey data under the LCMS was gender-disaggregated as planned at appraisal. Various
studies and participatory assessments undertaken by PAG provided gender-disaggregated information.
This is expected to continue under ZAMSIF
Poverty analysis
At appraisal, it was expected that studies undertaken under the Study Fund would receive special priority
for funding if they included gender aspects. This was not followed systematically. A few of the studies
undertaken did address gender issues peripherally. However, this did not lead to major policy
recomnmendations.
- 33 -



Capacity Building by Level under Community Initiatives Component
Community (Empower communities to successfully undertake and sustain their own development)
Activities                                  Outcomes
I   Facilitation of Community Based Development: Facilitation skills  Improved communication skills,
and modules reviewed; over 300 District and Provincial staff re-  improved relationship between
trained in facilitation skills; Facilitation Manual developed and is in   district staff and communities;
use.                                                       community meetings take less
time; improved participation at
community meetings; and
demand-led decentralization
2   Learning by doing - Project Cycle Activities: Project       Better decision making at
Implementation Manuals developed and used at every project site;  commuinity level; increased
project cycle activities and forms reviewed, some changed and  participation; improved
simplified; improved participatory field appraisal, and project launch  information flows; improved
exercises developed; On the job training (OIl) modules developed  project planning and
and used during appraisal and monitoring; this included financial  management
management, procurement, project planning, maintenance, storage,
how to avoid common works defects, using the Project
Implementation Manuals as a basis
3   Gender and Women's Participation: Facilitation modules changed   Women's participation improved
to focus on participation of women in decision making; 50% women   but not in decision making. (see
on committees and included in all OJT at project level;    gender section)
4   Maintenance and Sustainability: Study 'Constraints to
Maintenance of Social Infrastructure' addressed issues of community   All projects have maintenance
perceptions on mnaintenance; project cycle changed to include  committee in place, improved
maintenance and management as ongoing activity; maintenance and   fund raising for maintenance,
issues of sustainabilty discussed at desk and field appraisal,  tools available at all projects for
agreement reached before approval, Maintenance Mamnal developed   mairnenance; evidence of
for use at community level; OJT module developed, focus on  improved maintenance and
community ownership and responsibility in relation to maintenance    decrease in vandalism.
of community-based infrastructure and the technical solutions of how
to avoid maintenance costs by using good quality materials and
insisting on good workmanship during implementation; tools made
available for maintenance at completed projects;
5   Technical Supervisors Trained: Role of Technical Supervisors  Improved technical supervision;
agreed and contract simplified; over 450 Technical Supervisors  community and technical
trained from all districts.                                supervisor relations improved;
improved project management
especially procurement.
- 34 -



District (Enhancing the enabling role of district staff)
Activities                                     Outcomes
1   72 District Workshops 1995 - 1997: To enhance the capacity   Improved dissemination of correct
of district officers in all sectors to advise and assist  information; increased projects in
conunurities to identify, implement, manage, complete and  remote and needy areas, improved
subsequently maintain theirprojects. Additional workshops  understanding of roles of district staff,
were held in the newly established districts in 1998 and 1999.    increased involvement of district staff,
improved financial and technically
sound projects; Increased and
improved monitoring; and projects
completing more quickly.
2   Facilitation skills for sustainable community based
development, August 1997-February 1998: Training needs     Improved facilitation skills; improved
assessment of MPU and District facilitation capacity and skills;   participation by communities in
community meetings taking too long;                      decision making; improved
difficulty in facilitating very large groups;            understanding of issues of comnmunity
* poor use of facilitation tools;                          based approach to development; more
use of forceful participation;                           district involvement in facilitation of
district staff not always fully involved in facilitation  project cycle activities
Trainer of Trainers Workshop and training manual developed,
over 300 provincial and district staff trained in facilitation skills
- 3 or 4 district officers from several different sectors including
District Planning, Community Development, Health, Education
and Water; 'Facilitators Guide to Sustainable Comnmunity
Based Development' developed and in use by Provincial and
District facilitators.
3   Training Technical Officers in sustainable community based   The aim of intensifying the technical
development 9.97-2.98: The 1996/97 technical evaluation    training program was to improve the
recommended that District Technical staff be trained further in    quality of workmanship and
problem solving skills, structural integrity of buildings, project   sustainability of infrastructure; district
cycle activities (appraisal, monitoring, role of the technical  technical teams properly equipped to
supervisors, procurement of materials, labor, and transport, and   appraise and monitor projects, some
maintenance, over 300 district technical staff (District   districts able to conduct field appraisal
Education Buildings Officers, Public Works Department (PWD)  without extra input from MPU; most
Buildings Officers, District Director of Works and Assistant  districts better equipped to offer
Director of Works, District Water Affairs Officer in Charge,  relevant advice to communities with
PWD Provincial Commissioner of Works, Provincial Chief     technical problems; technical quality
Buildings Officer Education, Regional Officers) trained;   of projects improved; role of the
'Technical Officers Manual for Sustainable Community Based    technical officer better understood by
Development' developed and in use; and tools for appraisal and   all.
monitoring provided to all districts.
- 35 -



4   Training Technical Officers as Trainers for Technical     Each district now keeps a register of
Supervisors 1998: Four Technical Officers from each       trained technical supervisors; quality
Province (about 40) were selected and trained as trainers so as    of technical supervision and
to be able to train Technical Supervisors at the district level;  procurement improved; mle of the
training modules and a Training of Trainers Manual were   Technical Supervisor better
developed; 450 Technical Supervisors trained by Technical  understood by communities
Officers
5   District team support for appraisal and monitoring: Imprest   District taking over some
account in use for district officers, assessment of district  responsibilities, especially monitoring,
capacity to undertake facilitation of tasks developed.    District Appraisal Comnmittees
meeting more regularly.
6   Maintenance Training of Trainers and District Training    District Officers assisting
Workshop - 1998: "Constraints to Maintenance of Social    communities in the formation of
Infrastructure" found that although the sense of commnunity  maintenance committees, in how to
ownership and responsibility have been enhanced through   raise and manage funds as well as
community participation in projects, responsibilities are  plan and implement maintenance
unclear; communities generally have inadequate maintenance    tasks.
knowledge and skills; 'Maintenance Manual for Use by      Maintenance modules delivered to all
Communities' was produced as well as a Trainers Companion  ongoing projects
for use by District staff; 8 Maintenance Modules developed,
designed to be delivered by district officers at several stages of
the project cycle, and not only at the completion of the project,'
Training of Trainers for Maintenance' course was implemented
in all districts.
7   PEF and Community Transport Initiative (CTI): District
workshops held in Pilot districts and provinces
- 36 -



MPU Regional Level (Facilitators of community based development)
Activities                            Outcomes of Intervention
I   Increase Regional Office Capacity: Recruitment of 3     Increased numbers of projects in
Regional Officers to increase capacity in Northwestem,  largest and poorest provinces,
Western and Southem Provinces;
2   Training for Regional Officers                          Improved training and facilitation
Training of Trainers in facilitation skills, technical skills,  skills; understanding of basic gender
maintenance and management, and project management     issues; improved communication and
Gender sensitization; training in: writing skills,     computer skills
communication and computer skills; training of trainers for
CTI and PEF components in relevant provinces
3   Training of Task Assistants: upgrading positions from   Better information and advice to
secretaries to task assistants; training in MPU procedures and    cormnunities, improved
management, gender sensitization; training in          communication skills and computer
communications, computer skills, procurement and project  skills; improved reporting,
auditing.                                              management of provincial price lists
for costing and procurement purposes
4   Management of Information: training in data management
National Level (MPU as a executive agent)
Activities                                    Outcomes
I   Evaluations and studies commissioned for Completion of  MPU as a learning institution.
SRPl, mid term review SRP2 and preparation of ZAMSIF.
Findings and recommendations considered by SRP, MPU
Steering Conunittee and action plan agreed.
2   Maintenance: 'Constraints to Maintenance of Social      Presented to Cabinet Office, still to be
Infrastructure' study conumissioned and completed;      adopted.
Maintenance Manual prepared, Maintenance Policy Paper
prepared
3   Management of information decentralized to Regional     Progress slower than anticipated due to
Offices: E-mail available to all Provinces; LAN established;    failure of development of MMS.
links to internet improved.
4   New component established: Community Transport Initiative   Both programs have increased capacity
(CTI) of the ROADSIP and Pilot Environmental Fund (PEF) of  for environment and community roads
ESP established.                                        projects. SRP2 did not benefit as much
CTI and PEF staff recruited and activities initiated.   as anticipated since it was fully
commnitted by the time these became
active.
- 37 -



Activities                                    Outcomes
S   Networking: Members attended various rural infrastructure,  ASIFNET active network; community
social investment fund (SIF), procUTement and financial  involvement and cost sharing in
conferences and workshops; SRP active membership of the  provision of infrastructure now
African Social Investment Funds Network (ASIFNET)       government policy, OVC strategy
comnittee; shared experiences with the Malawi, Ethiopian,  adopted by government and partners
Bolivian, Brazilian, Ghanaian, Romianian and Lesotho Social
Development Funds; provided information for several Best
Practice Papers and Findings; contributed to policy
development for cost sharing in provision of infrastructure,
active in the poverty reduction strategy debate; provided
management of Situation Analysis of Orphans and Vulnerable
Children.
6   Procurement: organized workshop on WB procurement        Improved understanding of procurement
procedures for govermnent                               procedures by private sector.
7    Publicity: Developed and conunissioned a video 'Community    Political acceptance of SRP as
Participation, the Way Forward'.                        government program as well as
community participation
Participatory Assessment Group Activities (1993-2001)
Title                                      For           Year,
Beneficiary Assessment (BA) Study Phase I                         SRP                  1993
BA for EU Micro Project Progmm                                    MPP                  1993
BA Study Phase II                                                 SRP                  1993
The Women of Kanyama and Lilanda: A Priority Needs Assessment     Catholic Church      1994
BA Study III                                                      SRP                  1994
Zambia Participatory Poverty Assessment                           World Bank           1994
Coping with Cost Recovery in Education and Health Sectors         SIDA                 1994
Participatory Poverty Monitoring in Zambia                        SRP I                1995
Analysis of Qualitative Information on Agriculture                Ministry of          1995
Agriculture, Food
and Fisheries
Impact Assessment of Smallholder Services Rehabilitation Project  lFAD                 1995
Training in Participatory Approaches and Methods to Grassroots    ILO                  1995
Communities in Mokhotlong District in Lesotho
Participatory Poverty Monitoring in Zambia I                      SRP                  1995
- 38 -



Identification of the Most Vulnerable                              Ministry of           1995
Community
Development and
Social Services
Participatory Pre-project Planming in Chief Malama, Mambwe District  SRP                 1996
GRZ/EU Kabwe Smallholder Development Project                       EU                    1996
BA for EU Micro Project Program                                     SRP                  1996
Participatory Poverty Monitoring 11                                 SRP                  1996
Health Sector Reform Review                                        UNICEF, WHO           1996
Evaluation of the Relief and Rehabilitation Work of the Catholic Church  Catholic        1996
Secretariat
Evaluation of the Microprojects Fund of the Catholic Commission for  Catholic Church     1996
Development
Kasama Nutrition Research Project                                  Dutch                 1996
BA IV                                                               SRP                  1997
Women Involvement and Employment in Social Funds. The Case of the  ILO                   1997
Social Recovery Project in Zambia
Ethnograplhic Study of Malaria                                      WHO                  1997
Participatoiy Pre-Project Planning in Lufwanyama District           SRP                  1997
M:arketing Consultancy Livingstone Food Security Project            Care International   1997
PRA Study of the Rising Childhood Mortality in Zambia              IDS, Sussex           1997
Overseeing the write-up of the Malawi Social Action Fund's First BA  MASAF               1997
Trained District Level Staff in Luapula Province                    SRP                  1997
Training of Trainers Workshop for Eastern Province, D-Washe Group  UNICEF                1997
Training of Trainers Workshop for Southemn Province, D-Washe Group  UNICEF               1997
Review of the Primary Health Care Program in Western Province      Dutch                 1997
Promoting Equity Within Cost Sharing Schemes (Health Sector)       DfID                  1998
Literature Review on Factors Affecting School Attendance in Zambia  Miriistiy of         1998
EducationlSRP
- 39 -



Title                                      For           Year
Mazabuka Credit Study                                             Plan International   1998
BA Phase V                                                        SRP                  1998
Flow of Seed and Information in Southern Province                 ODI                  1998
Evaluation of the Department for International Development        DfID                 1998
School Attendance                                                 Ministry of          1998
Education/SRP
Socic-Cultural Impacts of Proposed Hotel Development at Victoria Falls  Sun Hotels     1998
International
Situational Analysis of Orphans in Zambia                         SRP                  1998
Consultations with the Poor; National Synthesis Report Zambia     World Bank           1999
Small Business Development Project Assessment Impact              YWCA                 1999
Situational Analysis of Orphans in Zambia, the Conununity Response  SRP                1999
Participatory Poverty Study: A comparative Analysis of Causes for  SRP                 1999
Different Poverty Levels in Different Districts in Zambia
Roll Back Malaria                                                                      1999
Finalizing the National Poverty Reduction Action Plan             UNDP                 1999
Study on Retirees and Retrenchees                                 SRP                  2000
Social Assessment for the Zambia Training Subsector Investment Program    MSTVT        2000
Study on the Use of Participatory Approaches and Methods in Zambia  PAG                2000
The Church's Contribution to Development in Zambia                SRP                  2000
Final Evaluation of the DflD Lusaka Urban Health Project          DflD                 2000
The Red Bow (HIV/AIDS Study)                                      USAID                2000
Community Transport Infrastmcture Training Workshops, 8 Provinces in    SRP            2000
Zambia
Social Development Training Course in Dar es Salaam               UNDP                 2000
Gender Based Beneficiary Assessment of World Bank Support Projects in    World Bank  2000/01
the 1990s
- 40 -



Key Consultancies under SRP2
Date           Title                                  Findings
02/97    Beneficiary
Assessment IV
02/97    Technical Evaluation    Comparing 1996 with 1994. Significant improvement in quality of
II                   work, standard of construction and conformity to design Greatest
single impact is technical supervisors; significant contribution by
District and Regional Officers, maintenance remains disappointing.
Recommended training of technical supervisors and District
Technical Officers as well as exploring maintenance issues and
increasing community capacity to maintain.
08/97    Constraints to       Assessed causes of poor maintenance and recommended national
Maintenance of Social  policy and strategy for maintenance
Infrastructure
10/97    Social Funds and     Assess women's employment and participation in Zambian social
Gender Dimensions    fund. Main finding was that employment opportunity is not the main
Case Study 7 -       objective of SRP and few people earned income from microproject
ZAMBIA               involvement. Those who did were mainly male While cash
contributions are made by households, women contributed more labor
than men even though they did not attend meetings, or did not speak
if they attended Average female representation on committees at
identification is 3% Women's priorities not taken into account
during identification
4/98    Information           Evaluated uses of the existing computer system and appropriateness
Management and       of hard and software. Recommendations were made for development
Microproject         and improvement of information flows, critical management and
Monitoring System    control issues, capture of performance indicators, and segregation of
duties among staff.
7198    Management            Assessed institutional structure of the MPU, current management
Evaluation and       structure, capacity, staff development and performance, as well as
Organization Study of   current costs and efficiency.
the Microprojects
Unit
7/98    Beneficiary
Assessment V
7/98    Measuring             Commissioned for ICR of SRP I and mid-term review of SRP2
Attainment of        Summarized (a) Analysis of the Impact of Education Projects on
Development          Communities, (b) Analysis of the Impact of MPU Projects in the
Objectives of SRP 1  Health Sector, (c) Verification/Facilities Survey Report, and (d)
and 2                Reaching the Poor and Vulnerable
1999    Design of a           Reviewed and made recommendations on management capacity and
Management           structure of SRP, relationship of ZAMSIF with other donors,
Structure for ZAMSIF  identified management training needs, and reviewed information
flows.
- 41 -



11/99    Social Investment
Funds 2000
Impact of Social
Funds Delivered
through the
Microprojects Unit in
Zambia on Service
Delivety in Education
and Health Services
11/99   Impact Evaluation of
the Zambia Social
Fund
- 42 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR
Abridged GRZ Implementation Completion Report for
The Second Social Recovery Project, 1995 - 2000
February 2001
1. Introduction and Background
I 1 Introduction
The second Social Recovery Project was designed using the experiences and lessons learnt from SRP I
SRP II credit for Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 19.1 million equivalent to US $ 30 million became
effective in August 1995 SRP II was fully committed by August 1998 and was completed in December
2000.
SRP II was implemented through the Microprojects Unit (MPU), based in the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development. A network of Regional Offices, developed under SRP I, continued to support and
facilitate district and community activities. The Poverty Monitoring Component was implemented by the
Living Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) in Central Statistics Office and the Study Fund component
was managed by a Research Advisor supported by an administrator.
This report summarizes the full-length borrowers hmplementation Completion Report (ICR), which
describes the development of the Project, its successes and the lessons learnt The ICR is based on
evaluations and studies.
1.2   Project Description
a)    Aims and Objectives
The Project aimed to assist the Government of Zambia's poverty reduction program through the
financing of community initiatives and building of capacity for poverty analysis and monitoring.
b)    SRPII Components:
The project components were-
(i)    "Community Initiatives. ( 75% of total project costs) This component financed
micro-projects identified, prepared and implemented by communities but appraised and supervised
by the MPU; a sub component financed capacity building in microprojects implementation and
decentralized government agencies;
(u)    Poverty Monitoring (5.7. % of total project cost) financed capacity building and data
collection through a living Conditions Monitoring System (LCMS) and a systematic participatory
monitoring and assessment system,
(iii)   Poverty Analysis (2.3 % of total project cost) financed research on poverty and social
issues in a demand- driven framework, building on the success of the Study Fund under SRP I
c)    Project Outputs were defined as:
Rehabilitation and improvement of existing infrastructure and social service delivery;
Improve the capacity of communities and government staff to plan, appraise, manage and
maintain investment projects;
Strengthen the ability of communities to take charge of their own development and rekindle
the spirit of self help; and
- 43 -



Capacity of Zambian institutions to collect and analyze poverty related data enhanced
The ICR assesses the achievement of the SRPII objectives and outputs, in the context of deteriorating
social and economic environment and an increasing incidence of poverty, HIV/AIDS and orphans and
vulnerable children.
2. Achievement of Project Objectives of the Community Initiatives Component
2.1   Introduction
Despite the fact that the SRP II lost US$ 3.7 million due to exchange loss between the SDR and US$, the
project objectives were largely achieved. SRP II disbursed over US$ 20 million to 325 conmmunity based
projects between 1995 and 2000.
2 2    Rehabilitation and Improvement of the Existing Infrastructure and Service Delivery
a)    Sector Investment
80% of projects supported by SRP II were in the education sector, 12% in health, and the rest inl training,
economic infrastructure and water and sanitation. Between 1995 and 2000, nearly 1,500 classrooms were
rehabilitated and 220 new ones constructed Over 700 teachers' houses were either built or rehabilitated,
mostly in the rural areas. 12 new clinics were constructed while a fiurther 10 were improved. 50 new houses
for clinic staff were constructed. There was a huge investment in improving water and sanitation facilities
- 96 boreholes were sunk and over 190 ablution blocks constructed or improved and several sewerage
systems improved Nearly 2,500 ventilated pit latrines were constructed.
b)    Improved Facilities
The facilities that affect the quality of services offered - school and medical equipment, sanitation services,
access to safe water, other utilities - were found to be significantly better in SRP supported facilities
Studies have shown that physical infrastructure and utilities of primary schools, which have been supported
by SRP, is superior to that in comparator schools with better equipped classrooms and facilities A positive
impact in the health sector was also evident. SRP supported health clinics had more medical rooms
available, including delivery rooms, examination rooms, and patient wards. The other facilities such as
water and sanitation also improved significantly.
The technical standard of the facilities was found to be fair to good. The presence of a technical supervisor
was found to be critical to the improved quality of the infrastructure. The community based approach for
implementation was found to be cost effective, especially in comparison to contractor projects, and has the
added benefits of increased likelihood that buildings will be maintained, enhancement of sense of ownership
and increasing the likelihood of sustainability The implementation time using the community demand led
approach was found to be substantially less than targeted approach where procurement is done centrally
c)    Improved Accessibility, Availability and Quality of Service Delivery
Communities identified reduction of distances to facility and reduced congestion at health centers,
especially for women, as well as reduced child mortality and improved health status as benefits of the
projects. Education projects improved the learning environment, teacher morale, pupil performance and
pupil enrolment, reduced vandalism and the need for maintenance.
SRP supported schools had above average percentage trained teachers than non-project schools, especially
in rural areas. Evidence shows that there is greater demand for student places at SRP supported schools
Although primary school enrolment and attendance showed decreasing trend from 1991 to 1996 for the
- 44 -



country, for SRP supported schools enrollment and attendance increased. Selection to grade 8 increased
dramatically, drop out levels also decreased and fewer Grade 1 applications were rejected. There is also
some evidence that school rehabilitation increased attendance, particularly in rural areas. Households are
willing to spend more on education in SRP supported communuities
Staffing of SRP supported health facilities also shows an increase (reduced attention) irstaffmg compared
to non SRP supported health facilities especially for public health nurses and registered nurses The SRP
supported facilities were open for longer hours and showed an increase in both the range of services
available and in attendance despite the introduction of health user fees. Family planning showed the most
dramatic increase of 221% as well as over 100% increase in assisted childbirth. Child immunization rates
increased and supervision visits became more frequent Although the SRP intervention had no effect on the
actual level of sickness in communities, there is evidence to suggest that community awareness of health
issues had increased. Rehabilitating health facilities also increased the incidence of some types of childhood
vaccinations.
2 3    Effectiveness of Targeting
The design of SRP Il, like that of SRP I, was demand led and used self-targeting to reach the poor. A total
of 857,724 Zambians directly benefited from SRP II alone which is about 10% of the country's estimated
population Nearly 200,000 children under 12 years old benefited from primary school improvements.
Although over 80% of the commitments were to education projects, health projects actually benefited more
people.
Several studies assessed the SRP targeting performance using district and household data. The conclusions
reached were that:
*      SRP had been effective in reaching the poorest districts and most remote areas;
Relative share of resources which went to the poorest areas is greater than its relative population
but less than its expected share when poverty incidence is considered;
*     The wide variation between districts shows that some of the poorest areas had been adept at
accessing resources while others had lagged behind,
*      iEvidence shows that SRP improved its targeting performance over time, but the poorest districts
rernain more difficult to generate demand.
The SIF 2000 study took the analysis further by analyzing the 1998 LCMS household data and looked at
household level targeting. It concluded that seventy-one percent of beneficiaries are below the poverty line
and 57% are extremely poor In rural areas, targeting has been more effective as 84% of beneficiaries are
poor and the depth and severity of poverty are also generally more acute than in Zambia's rural areas
overall. However, urban beneficiaries were found to be relatively better off than average urban households
2.4    Capacity Building of Communities, District team members and MPU
The exit strategy of SRP II was to encourage a gradual shift of responsibility for all aspects of
microproject implementation to the appropriate district agencies. In order to achieve this objective, SRP
implemented a capacity building program at community, district and head office levels.
Community capacity building took place at the project site. Manuals were provided, technical supervisors
trained and project committees trained in management and maintenance. Learning by Doing was the
strategy used. As a result, communities themselves acknowledged that improved skills and knowledge,
better organizational skills and accountability were important benefits from their involvement in a project
- 45 -



District Level capacity included facilitation and technical skills, maintenance, training of trainers for
technical supervisors. The program resulted: in improvements in facilitation skills, establishment of a
district team approach; an improved awareness of development issues, improved project management
techniques; and the recognition of the critical role and value of self reliance in the rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure. The DDCCs, however remained weak and, as a result, district priorities
were not defned, resources were not available to carry out identified development activities. The capacity
of district staff as agents of change providing information and assisting communities to apply for projects
remained limited Even though the government decentralization policy was not fully implemented, SRP has
been credited with creating demand led decentralization.
MPU Capacity Building - SRP has been credited with having maintained a learning process,
commissioning studies, reviews, modifying procedures and training as a result.
Several donors and sector ministries have recognized the value of this semi-autonomous implementing unit
to support community initiatives, as a result other projects are channeling funds through the MPU to
implement community focused components.
It was recognized at mid term review that SRP had developed into and demonstrated as an effective
institutional mechanism, for supporting community initiatives from the bottom-up Communities had been
encouraged through this support, their awareness increased on the availability of funds for a variety of
activities and were also willing to co-share in the investment and maintenance costs It was concluded that
to wind down the project at that stage would discourage and demoralize communities and halt the process
of bottom-up development, so carefully nurtured by the SRP activities. Government therefore decided to
explore various options to enable the program to continue so as to maximize the gains of these two
projects. A third social investment fund, ZAMSIF, was then identified and designed.
2.5    Assessment of the Impact of Community Participation
SRP regarded community participation as a corner stone for development SRP II supported interventions
to facilitate interactive and active comnmunity participation. Forms and guidelines were simplified,
facilitation techniques developed, and facilitation skills of district and regional staff improved. These
interventions improved the community capacity to understand key technical issues, comply with
procedures, employ labor, procure materials and transport, keep records, manage and account for funds As
a result, communities were able to plan and execute other development activities after the completion of the
SRP funded activities All completed projects funded by SRP II have a trained maintenance committee.
2 6   Information, Monitoring and Management of Information
The importance of the management, dissemination and use of information was not fully understood. As a
result there was inadequate system of information management, poor information flows, inability to
monitor performance and to act quickly on information The relationship between poverty and access to
information was also underestimated
The computer based information system, called the Microprojects Monitoring System (MMS), was
designed in 1994 and commissioned in 1995 for SRP I. The MMS was very successful in fulfilling its
fumctions but it had not been updated to respond to new needs of management and reporting The
Monitoring and Evaluation function in the MPU was not clearly identified. Improvements were made
during SRP II. Extra staff in the Information Technology department were recruited. A Local Area
Network was established at the Management Unit and communications improved through a direct wireless
link for e-mail for all staff. An e-mail system was installed between the Regions and Head Office. The
redesign of the information system however was not fully completed during the life of SRP II.
- 46 -



SRP II did not have an IEC strategy but instead relied on district teams to disseminate information to poor
communities about the opportunities available through the MPU. There was a dearth of information
reaching rural areas and that, although information is needed and necessary for development and poverty
reduction, poverty itself inhibits access to information Therefore with high poverty level in the country
effective use of the information will remain optimal for some time.
2.7    Gender
Women's participation in project was assessed and although cash contributions to a project are made by
households and not by individual men and women, women contributed more labor than men, even though
they did not attend meetings. If women attended meetings, they did not speak and did not actively contribute
ideas to the discussion Average female representation on project committees at the project identification
phase was at that time (1997) on average 3 % and evidence showed that women's priorities were not taken
into account during project identification
As a response, SRP II initiated a policy that stated that women must have 50% representation on project
committees It was found that although women did not often have powerful positions on the commnittee, they
were nevertheless becoming more self-confident as a result of this policy
3. Poverty Monitoring and Poverty Analysis
3.1   Introduction
The Poverty Monitoring and Poverty Analysis components of the SRPII supported several studies managed
by the Study Fund, surveys managed by the Living Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) of the Central
Statistics Office (CSO), and participatory poverty monitoring activities of the Participatory Assessment
Group (PAG).
Study Fund activities were directed by the Study Fund Committee, which provided an important forum for
discussing, coordinating and supporting policy relevant research and evaluation activities. The committee
consisted of representatives from Sector Ministries, cooperating partners, non-governmental organisations
and the research community By the last quarter of 1999, there were 31 members of the Study Fund
Committee
The Living Conditions and Monitoring Unit (LCMU) was established towards the end of 1995 to conduct
regular household surveys to provide accurate living conditions indicators for Zambia
The Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) was established to contribute to poverty reduction through
empowering the poor by giving the poor a voice The main activities were participatory research with the
poor, training in participatory techniques and participation in workshops, and disseminating and sharing the
information collected by and from the poor
3.2   Study Fund Activities
Analysis of poverty issues and the effects of economic policies on the poor and vulnerable groups was the
main focus of the Study Fund. The objectives of the Study Fund were to.
Identify the effects of economic policies on the poor and vulnerable;
Strengthen the capacity of Zambian institutions to undertake research and analysis of existing data;
Improve communication amongst researchers, policy makers, programme implementers and target
communities; and
-47 -



Assist in the formulation of policies.
These objectives were largely met during SRP II. 28 studies were supported to address issues in several
sectors including health, education, impact of HIIV/AIDS on children, nutrition and food security,
community development, Agriculture/Agro-industry, macro-economics, and the environment. Out of the 28
studies, 5 were priority studies and 23 were small-scale studies. The quality of proposals was improved as
a result of the capacity building program and with the production and publication of a research manual
The impact of studies on policy making was found to improve where major stakeholders were involved in
the conceptualization of the studies as well as the research process. The impact of the priority studies on
policy was generally greater than that of the small-scale studies. Notable was the study which developed
the eligibility criteria for the identification of clients in the community managed Public Welfare Assistance
Scheme. In collaboration with the Ministry of Education, the Study Fund also supported the study "Basic
Education for Some. Factors Affecting Primary School Attendance in Zambia". The main purpose of the
study was to determine the nature and scope of the problem of low primary school attendance rates, to
identify the major factors affecting school attendance and to recommend policy solutions The Priority
Survey I (PS I), Priority Survey II (PS II), LCMS 1996 and Primary Annual School Returns were data
used. The Poverty Assessment Group (PAG) complemented the quantitative analysis. The results of this
study were used in the design of the Basic Education Sector Support Programme (BESSIP). A major
setback to the effectiveness of the impact on policy was the poor follow up by policy makers of
implementation of the recommendations of many studies supported by the Study Fund
The Study Fund also managed three studies supported by other funding sources. These were-
     Atlas of Poverty and Social Indicators in Zambia (1998/9) funded by UNICEF;
     SIF 2000: Impact of Social Funds on Social Service Delivery in Education and Health Sectors
(1998/9) funded by the World Bank; and
     Situation Analysis of Orphans and Vulnerable Children in Zambia (1998/9) funded by UNICEF
and USAID.
3.3   Poverty Monitoring Activities
Tlhe Living Conditions Monitoring Unit (LCMU) was established and staff trained. The data analysis for
the Priority Surveys I and II were finalized. The first LCMS was prepared in 1996 and consultations held
with users and other producers including FHANIS and Demographic Health Survey (DHS) The first
Living Conditions Monitoring Survey (LCMS) was conducted in 1996. The design and selection of the
LCMS sample allowed for district estimates and also the use of centrality as a background variable for the
analysis. Staff were trained in the use of SAS statistical software which assisted the tabulation and analysis
of the LCMS I The results were made available and a preliminary report disseminated in May 1997. The
LCMS I data was also used to produce the "Evolution of Poverty Report". The LCMS I data showed a
general slowing down in the increase of poverty in Zambia while rural poverty remained high.
A second survey, the LCMS II, was prepared and conducted in 1998. About 18,000 households were
sampled so that those areas that had benefited from a micro-project were over-sampled to allow analysis of
the impact of the interventions by MPU on welfare indicators. The preliminary report for LCMS II was
disseminated on 27 January 2000. Poverty was found to be increasing in LCMS II
Some members of LCMU undertook a Poverty Monitoring Study Tour to Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi,
Zambia and Uganda financed by the World Bank. Structural changes that were taking place within the
CSO prevented the establishment of the LCMS Technical Committee and staff stability was not assured.
- 48 -



The links and coordination between policy, data collection, analysis and feed back to policy was generally
thought to be weak.
The SRP II also supported the Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) PAG undertook two beneficiary
assessments (BA IV and BA V) for the SRP II community initiatives component Various participatory
planning activities with remote and needy communities were undertaken as well as regular participatory
poverty monitoring The PAG was also involved with capacity building activities for the LCMU on
poverty monitoring and training, research and consultancy activities for various partners. Several
workshops were conducted and publications distributed aimed at disseminating the research findings. By
the end of SRP II, PAG had transformed itself into an independent non-governmental organisation and
consulting agency specialising in participatory approaches for studying poverty issues in Zambia and the
sub-region A book describing the experiences leamt from the poor is being written in cooperation with
Institute of Development Studies in Brighton and will be published in 2001.
4. SRP II Disbursements
The Social Recovery Project 2 (Credit Number 2755ZA) became effective on August 23rd 1995 and the
first withdrawal from the Credit Account was made in December 1995 The credit was a total of SDR 19 1
million, which in 1995 was worth US $ 30 million, but in 2000 was only worth US $ 26 3 million
During its implementation the SRP funded a total of 325 community initiatives in the sectors of education,
health, water and sanitation, economic infrastructure (markets and bridges) and training The Credit also
had two grants attached to it provided by the Governments of Norway and Sweden. The grants supported
the activities of the Study Fund, Living Conditions Monitoring Unit and the activities of the Participatory
Assessment Group (PAG).
A total of US$ 34 44 million was disbursed by the Project across all areas of intervention against the
original corrected estimate of US$ 40.6 million as the table below indicates.
Table 4.1 Financing Plan vs Actual US$ million
IDA        Beneficiaries     GR*           SIlDA         Norway          Total
SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual
Total  30.0  26.36   6.25    5.12    3.9    0 10    1.0   0.51    2 0    2.35   40.6 *   3444
* Corrected - see main report. The SAR estimated the community contribution and the number of projects to be
funded on total disbursement of over US$ 40 million
The overall actual disbursement is US$ 6.2 million below the SAR estimate. US$ 20,532,355 was actually
disbursed to community based projects against an estimated US$ 22 5 million. The shortfall of US$
1,967,645 is explained by the exchange loss. Despite this, 325 projects were funded as against planned
300. Disbursements followed more or less the anticipated profile given in the SAR
Generally, the Project adhered to the budget The Project did not access the Project Preparation Fund, as it
was not necessary to do so. The estimates for PPF and the unallocated amounts were used to even out
expenditure variance in the actual disbursement under category 4 and accounts for the increased
disbursement in Category 1.
- 49 -



5. World Bank Performance
Bank performance during the implementation of SRP2 was satisfactory. There were regular supervision
Missions. Although Bank Task Managers changed three times, the new managers were conversant with
Social Fund principles, and therefore brought added value to the operations of the Project.
The Bank was flexible in the reallocation of resources from the unallocated category of the DCA, to ensure
continuing and uninterrupted support to the investment categories of the Credit. There were no unjustified
delays in the processing of procurement clearances or indeed in the processing of withdrawal applications.
The Bank responded expeditiously to queries which factored into smooth project implementation.
We note quite especially the Bank's quick reversions in the event of queries
6. Lessons Learnt
6.1    Gender
SRP II responded to various studies which showed that, although projects were meeting the basic needs of
women, women were not participating fully in community-based projects. Women were expected to
contribute in form of labor but rarely did they participate in decision making. SRP II insisted that project
committees should have at least 50% women's participation. This allowed women to be more involved in
decision making. The results were promising but women's participation can only improve if community
based organizations become more aware of gender issues. ZAMSIF has responded to this lesson by
initiating a capacity building gender program for districts, mainstreaming gender into the project cycle and
designing projects which will benefit women specifically.
6. 2    Community Participation
Community participation remained the corner stone of SRP II. The benefits of community participation
have been well documented. Even the poorest community is able and willing to participate but there must
be flexibility and imagination in assessing the value of that participation. Even the poorest and most remote
community is capable of managing a project if given information, knowledge, and skills to do so In order
to guarantee maintenance, communities must be aware that they are responsible, as this cannot be assumed
The community-based approach to improving social infrastructure has been found to be cost effective and
more efficient and sustainable.
6.3   Improving Infrastructure leads to Improved Service Delivery
Three studies showed that improving infrastructure lead to better service delivery. The accessibility,
availability, and the quality of the service delivery improved when infrastructure was improved SRP II
would have done more to ensure improvement in service delivery, had this relationship been adequately
recognized and assessed at appraisal ZAMSIF has a result redeveloped the appraisal process to. include an
assessment of the outcomes of the project notjust the outputs.
6 4   Decentralization and Co-ordination - capacity building
Even in the absence of an approved decentralization policy and its implementation, the capacity building
program has had a positive impact on district development. The impacts include improved project
management, improved technical skills and an accepted and institutionalized approach to community based
development This has resulted in demand led decentralization. The impact however would have been
greater had the objectives of decentralization been achieved including improved co-ordination, better
resourced districts, improved human resource management.
- 50-



6.6    Targeting
Self-targeting mechanisms were effective in reaching the poorest districts, the most remote places, and the
poorest households. Self-targeting has improved over time. Access to resources, however, is affected by
district capacity and access to information Remote and poorly capacitated districts do require extra
support to improve targeting. ZAMSIF has responded to this finding by developing an improved targeting
mechanism, which relates poverty and deprivation to resource allocation.
6.7   Management of Information
SRP II underestimated the importance of management of information. The commitment of time, human
resources and funds for the development of effective systems was under-estimated under provided It was
difficult for SRP II to keep up to date with fast moving information technology without the assistance of
international experts. This has affected the monitoring and evaluation capacity of SRP. These issues are
probably not peculiar to SRP but to many social funds and other development projects.
SRP II relied on district staff to disseminate information to communities. Although even the poorest and
most remote communities accessed the SRP funds, district staff did not always have the capacity to fulfil
this function in an effective way Poverty and information are linked ZAMSIF has initiated an information
and communication strategy for reach even the poorest members of communities
Finally all said and done the Government is satisfied with the implementation results of SRP II and created
through the MPU an effective mechanism for involving on a sustainable basis, community participation in
project implementation. Furthermore attendance service delivery project supported at schools and health
centers have substantially increased and improved.
- 51 -






MAP SECTION






\ 9 24w N S Vke , 24g                                                                                                               LoL
boo  MboloTAN ZAN  IA
; | ~~~~~~~~~~~~Z    A                          M      B    I  A                                                                                                   gT~ AmNZbyNI 
-    TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS     -       RIVERS
__   RAILROADS                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
a   SELECTED CITIES               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                     N    0                        R
D i  <t EMS.T E t H \ Tezh)e dO <<_ ltezhl T S A K A >< REP. OF CONGO                                                      BUTANZ
\ V ;<m~~~Sohekeon                                                            0      50    100    150    200    250 KIOMETER5 TXS/ VN
c ~~                ~         ~        ~       ~        +      t    Ju                         Tsm pw pnprepor..y he MopDesign UoiofIre World Book.F                                )t9Xl
m ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ 5 t~ _|  N0 Ah                                                     oc  oo    thi B      ................ op...............   d o naNm ty o n p y  oohe    p ool of T OIs W orld   BOok    G ooop ....Ul..A FR...C A 
Ao      N<                         r L ALBOTSWANA                                               0.orocceptncoofsechooodootoo.      .
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   



