AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT 2755-ZA
Agreement
between
THE SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AGENCY
(Second Social Recovery Project - Zambia)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by
THE SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AGENCY
Dated Nout, 1995


﻿AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2755-ZA
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        0 't      (  1995, between the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (herein
after referred to as Sweden) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter referred to as the Bank).
WHEREAS Sweden and the Bank intd to cooperate in the financing of the Zambia Second
Social Recovery Project/Participatory Assessment Group (hereinafter referred to as the Project) on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Sweden wishes to make available development aid funds for the cofinancing of the
Project;
WHEREAS Sweden further wishes to make available development aid funds to provide
financing on a grant basis to the Project for such activities as are agreed between Sweden and the Bank
as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report concerning the Second Zambia Social Recovery
Project/Participatory Assessment Group;
WHEREAS the Bank is prepared to accept such financing, including the administration of the
development funds, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
The term "Bank" shall mean the Association.
ARTICLE H
Component Authorities
The Agreement pertains solely to financing provided by Sweden through the Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency (hereinafter referred to as SIDA), and in matters
conceming the implementation of this Agreement, including any amendments hereto other than those
which amend the principal objectives of this Agreement, SIDA shall be competent to represent
Sweden.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE III
Scope of Agreement
Section 3.1. The financing to be provided by Sweden pursuant to this Agreement may be for:
The Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) as part of the Second Social Recovery Project
(SRP2) in the Republic of Zambia.
Section 3.2. The financing to be provided by Sweden pursuant to Section 3.1 of this
Agreement shall be in the form of a grant to be administered by the Bank.
Section 3.3. Sweden shall thereby make available a grant of FOUR MILLION ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND SWEDISH KRONOR (SEK 4,150,000).
ARTICLE IV
Consultation
Sweden and the Bank shall consult with each other from time to time on all matters arising out
of this Agreement. Sweden and the Bank shall hold consultative meetings not less than once a year in
order to promote a regular exchange of information.
ARTICLE V
Administration of Funds
(a) The Bank shall, as administrator on behalf of Sweden, enter into a grant Agreement
with the Government of Zambia regarding the provision of the development aid fumds. The Bank shall
be solely responsible for such administration and shall carry out such administration in accordance with
its standard practices, with the same degree of care as it uses in the administration of its own loans and
credits. A copy of the grant Agreement shall be furnished to Sweden by the Bank.
(b)    Sweden shall, upon request from the Bank, depo3it with the Bank the funds to be
administered by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement. All such deposits shall be made in Swedish
kronor to an account with the Sveriges Riksbank.
(c)    When making any such deposits, Sweden will notify Sveriges Riksbank to advise the
Bank's Cash Management Department as to the amount received, the name and number of the project
or activity for which the deposit has been made, and the date of the deposit. In addition, Sweden shall
fax a copy of its deposit instructions to Sveriges Riksbank to the Bank's Office of the Trust Funds


﻿-3-
Administrator (fax no. [202]522-3397). The Bank shall advise Sweden of the receipt by the Bank of
each such deposit.
(d)    Funds deposited pursuant to paragraph (b) above may be commingled with other trust
fund assets but shall be kept separate and apart from the funds of the Bank. The Bank shall disburse, or
arrange for the disbursement of, such funds to pay for goods or services eligible for payment and, for
this purpose, the Bank may exchange such funds for other currencies at the time of disbursement
thereof.
(e)    The Bank shall maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the funds
deposited by Sweden and disbursed by the Bank for the activities for which development aid funds are
provided under this Agreement.
(f)    Within ninety days of each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, the
Bank shall prepare a financial statement with respect to the funds deposited by Sweden with the Bank
pursuant to this Agreement and forward a copy to Sweden. Each such financial statement shall be
expressed in the currency in which the funds are maintained by the Bank and shall show the allocation
of such funds among the activities financed under this Agreement. The Bank shall provide Sweden
annually with a management assertion together with an attestation from the Bank's extemal auditors on
the satisfactory performance of the procedures and controls used by the Bank in administering the
flmds. The costs of such attestations shall be bome by the Bank. In addition, upon request from
Sweden, the Bank shall cause the financial statements to be audited by the Bank's extemal auditors and
shall forward a copy of the auditors' report to Sweden. The financial reporting and auditing of the
activities financed by Sweden under this Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
normal practices and standards.
(g)    In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and other expenses
incurred by the Bank under this Agreement, the Bank may invest and reinvest the funds pending their
disbursement. The Bank shall credit all income from such investment on a monthly basis to a separate
investment income trust fund, which the Bank may also invest. Except as Sweden and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Bank may deduct from such investment income trust fund and retain for its own
account an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the amount deposited by Sweden and such amounts as
are required to reimburse the Bank for the cost of any Audits requested by Sweden under Section 5.1
(f) above. Following such deductions and except as may otherwise be agreed between the Bank and
Sweden, the Bank shall pay to Sweden the balance of the funds in such investment income trust fund
on an annual basis no later than September 1 of each year. If the amount in such investment income
trust fund in any year is less than the amount the Bank is entitled to retain under this Section, Sweden
shall, upon request from the Bank, pay such remaining amount to the Bank.
(h)    The Bank shall exercise the same care in investing the funds as it does for its own
accounts.
(i)    I, upon the completion or termination of the project, there remains an unused balance
of such funds, the Bank shall credit such balance to a separate unused funds trust fund account and
shall then pay Sweden the amounts, including all investment income thereon, in such trust fund account


﻿-4-
on an annual basis no later than September 1 of each year, except as may otherwise be agreed between
Sweden and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Procurement
Section 6.1. The development aid funds administered by the Bank shall be used to finance
expenditures for goods and services, in accordance with the Banks "Guidelines for Procurements under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" and the "Guidelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", as in effect at the time of the grant.
Section 6.2. The recruitment of the consultants and the administration and enforcement of all
provisions of any agreement entered into between the Bank and such a consultant and/or a third party,
shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be carried out in accordance with its applicable
procedures. Sweden shall, at the request of the Bank, make available to the Bank, to the best of its
ability, information conceming expertise available in Sweden in sectors which may be of interest to the
Bank.
Section 6.3. In all cases, the procedures used shall be such as not to discriminate against
Swedish suppliers of goods or services so that such supplies shall have the same possibilities of
providing goods or services to be fi-anced under this Agreement as other suppliers.
ARTICLE VII
Project Information and Supervision
Section 7.1. The supervision of the activities which Sweden assists in financing pursuant to this
Agreement shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be carried out by the Bank in
accordance with the Banks standard policies and procedures.
Section 7.2. The Bank shall provide Sweden with information on the results of the activities
upon completion of the Agreement. The Bank shall promptly inform Sweden of any event which, in the
opinion of the Bank, interferes or threatens to interfere with the successful implementation of the
Project.
Section 7.3. The Bank shall provide Sweden with an annual report on the implementation of
the Project. The report shall contain an assessment of the results of the PAG in relation to the annual
workplan of the unit and of the results of the cooperation between the PAG and the Living Conditions
Monitoring Unit
Section 7.4. Representatives of Sweden shall be invited to participate in missions relating to
the activities cofinanced by Sweden and the Bank under this Agreement, as the Bank, Sweden and the
Govemmnent of Zambia may deem appropriate. The Bank shall keep Sweden informed of the findings
of such missions and regularly provide Sweden with summaries of any supervision reports resulting
from such missions.
Section 7.5. The Bank shall promptly inform Sweden of any significant modification to the
terms of the Agreement with respect to the Project, and of any contractual remedy that is exercised by


﻿-5-
the Bank under the Agreement. To the extent practicable, the Bank shall afford Sweden a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views before effecting any such modification or exercising any such
contractual remedy.
ARTICLE VIII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 8. 1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signature and shall remain
valid until December 31, 1997, except as Sweden and the Bank may otherwise agree or unless earlier
terminated by either party upon giving six months' prior written notice to that effect to the other party,
provided that such termination shall not affect the rights and obligations of Sweden and the Bank under
this Agreement. Prior to the date mentioned in the preceding sentence, Sweden and the Bank shall
consult with each other in order to determine whether this Agreement shall terminate on such date or
be extended for a further period.
Section 8.2. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties hereto agree on another
course of action and except as otherwise provided on another course of action, any fAmds of Sweden
held hereunder by the Bank shall be returned to Sweden and the Bank's functions pursuant hereto shall
be considered terminated.
Section 8.3. Subject to the foregoing, promptly after termination of this Agreement, the Bank
shall fumish Sweden with a final report and a fmzancial statement with respect to the funds.
ARTICLE IX
Communications
Section 9.1. All written communication required or permitted by this Agreement shall be
directed to the following addresses:
For Sweden:
Head of the Policy Department
Swedish Intemational Development Cooperation Agency
Birger Jarlsgatan 61, S-105 25
Stockholm, Sweden
Fax: +46 8 612 49 80
For the Bank:
Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Intemational Development Association
Southern Africa Department
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
Fax: +1 202 473-8239


﻿-6-
ARTICLE X
Miscellaneous
Section 10.1. This Agreemot may be amended only by written agreement of the parties
hereto.
Section 10.2. The headings of the Articles and Sections in this Agreement are used for
convenience only, and shall not be used in interpreting the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 10.3. This Agreement is prepared in two counterparts, one for each party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day and
year first above written.
FOR THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Br:____ (&- - ECe   rert j
FOR THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By: &CwgC K~
r Katherine Marshah, Director
Southern Africa Department


