Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14685
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2019-GUB)
JUNE 21, 1995
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Guinean Peso (PG)
US$ 1.00= PG 1335.4 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.00= PG 14481.6 (at closing)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL. YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASDI          Swedish International Aid Agency
EGA           State-owned vehicle maintenance facility
ESAF          IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GUB           Guinea-Bissau
GUINEMAR   State-owned shipping company
IMF           International Monetary Fund
JAPG          Maritime port services
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PG            Guinea-Bissau Peso
PIP           Public Investment Program
SAC I         First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC II        Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF           IMF Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SSA           Sub-Saharan Africa
TA I          First Technical Assistance Project
TA II         Second Technical Assistance Project
UNDP          United Nations' Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
P refa ce    ........................................................i
Evaluation Summary .                          .......................................................ii
Background  to  IDA's Involvement .                           .......................................ii
Program   Objectives ....................................                    ...................                iii
Implementation  Experience and  Results ...............                          ..................             iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned    iv
PART I -- PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT   1.............. 
A.  Project Identity                ......................................................                      I
B .  B ackground                        1...................................................... 
C.  Program   Objectives and  Design                         ........................................           3
D.  Achievement of Objectives    ...............................................                                4
E.  Major Factors Affecting  the Program   ..............                         .................             8
F.  ProgramSustainability ......................................................                                8
G.  Bank  performance  ......................................................                                   9
H.  Borrower Performance  ....................................................                                  9
I.   Assessment of Outcome  ..................................................                                  10
J.   Future Operation  ......................................................                                   10
K.  Key Lessons Learned  ......................................................                                 11
PART  II -- STATISTICAL  ANNEXES  .................................................                                               12
Table  1    Summary  of Assessments ......................................                                      12
Table 2        Related  IDA  Loans/Credits .................                   ..................               13
Table 3    Program   Timetable  ........................................ .......                                14
Table 4  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    14
Table  5   : Key  Indicators for Program   Operation                              ..................            15
Table 6   : Studies Included  in the Program                             ............................           18
Table 7   : Program   Financing    ................................................                             18
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants                             .....................................            19
Table 9: IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs                              ..................................          21
Table  10: IDA  Resources: Missions                           .......................................          22
APPENDIXES  ......................................................                                                               23
A. Aide-Memoire of Implementation Completion Mission  .....                                                     23
B. Borrower Contribution to  the ICR: Summary                                     ...................           28
C. Map  of Guinea-Bissau  ......................................................                                31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC H)
(CREDIT 2019-GUB)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, for which Credit 2019-GUB in the amount of SDR 18.0 million was
approved on May 18, 1989 and made effective on August 9, 1989.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1994 compared with the original closing
date of June 30, 1992. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness was fully disbursed by
December 1990; subsequent tranches were released on January 1, 1991 and June 1, 1993,
and the credit was fully disbursed on May 12, 1995. Cofinancing in the amount of US$4.8
million was provided by The Netherlands.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Marcelo Andrade of the Country Operations Division,
Western Africa Department, and Katerina Taiganides (consultant), and reviewed by Birger
Fredriksen, Division Chief, and Robert Franco, acting Lead Economist.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was begun in February 1995. It is based on documentation
in the project files, including the President's Report, Letter of Development Policy, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, progress reviews on the occasion of
tranche releases, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA
memoranda, audit reports, progress reports and interviews of IDA staff involved. The
borrower contriouted to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
program's execution and achievements and by commenting on the draft ICR during a
workshop organized in Bissau on May 30, 1995, to review the experience and outcomes
of SAC II. The workshop was chaired by the Minister of Finance and attended by a wide
range of Government officials in charge of implementing Guinea-Bissau's adjustment
program.  The Country Operations' Division Chief and the Country Economist for
Guinea-Bissau represented the World Bank at this workshop. The cofinancier's comments
on the draft ICR were invited but not received.
i






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC 1I)
(CREDIT 2019-GUB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background to tDA's Involvement
1.    After independence in 1974, the Government adopted an inward-looking growth strategy,
based on a centrally planned model of development. To reverse the deteriorating economic
situation, at the end of 1983, the Government embarked on an economic recovery program
supported by an IDA reconstruction import credit of US$ 15.0 million, a Technical Assistance
Project of US$ 6.0 million as well as financing granted by the IMF and several donors. The
program aimed at promoting stabilization and moving towards a market-oriented economy.
Despite initial success, the program lost momentum in 1985 due to weaknesses on stabilization
policies and delays in implementing price and trade liberalization measures.
2.    In 1987, the authorities launched a far-reaching reform program which focused on
reducing the direct role of government in the economy and on restoring the country's
competitiveness. The program was supported by an IDA-financed Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC I) of US$ 15.0 million, and parallel financing was provided by the IMF and other
development partners of Guinea-Bissau. SAC I implementation was satisfactory on the whole and
the economy responded well. In 1987 and 1988, real GDP growth averaged 6 percent and exports
increased by approximately 19 percent. Substantial progress was achieved on the structural front,
especially in the areas of price and trade reforms. However, stabilization lagged reflecting the
government's inability to reduce the fiscal deficit and control credit.
3.    Mindful of these imbalances, the Government decided in early 1989 to deepen the
adjustment effort. The reform program, embodied in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy for SAC II, was supported by the Second Structural Adjustment Credit, approved on May
18, 1989 in the amount of US$23.4 million equivalent. Cofinancing totaled US$4.8 million,
provided by the Netherlands. Parallel financing from other donors reached almost US$21 million.
Program Objectives
4.    The objectives of SAC II were to: (i) promote greater economic stability; (ii) generate
diversified growth; (iii) change the role of government from involvement in productive activities
to the provision of essential public services; and (iv) reduce the external debt burden to
manageable proportions. The objectives were comprehensive, relevant to the country's
development and consistent with EIDA's country assistance strategy. However, progress achieved
with SAC I may have contributed to excessive optimism about the Government's institutional
capacities and its ability to maintain over time its initial strong commitment to reforms. This led
11



to designing a program which was rather too ambitious in scope compared to the implementation
time frame allowed for under the credit. A positive feature of the program design was that it
allowed enough flexibility to adjust to the evolving political and economic situation.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The objectives of SAC II were substantially met on both the stabilization and structural
fronts, although much later than initially anticipated. These achievements are expected to be
sustainable. The main factors that slowed down SAC II implementation were wavering borrower
commitment to stabilization policies up until late 1992, political developments related to the
transition to a multiparty system of governments (first multiparty elections successfully conducted
in July 1994), and ambitious program design given the recognized weak institutional capacity of
the Government. These factors contributed to significant delays in tranche release and led the
credit to be disbursed about three years later than initially expected.
6.    One key objective of SAC II was to promote greater economic stability. Performance on
the stabilization front was uneven over the 1989-92 period. However, since late 1992, the
Government's renewed commitment to stabilization policies resulted in satisfactory progress as
measured by a significant decline in both the fiscal and current account deficits and the inflation
rate. Excluding grants, the ratios to GDP of the overall fiscal deficit and the current account came
down from about 43 and 48 percent, respectively, early in the program, to about 22 and 18
percent at the end of its implementation. Over the same period, inflation dropped from 81 to 15
percent and the exchange rate was unified.
7.    Another key objective of SAC II was to encourage economic diversification. Changes in
the incentive structure coupled with an opening of the economy to market forces contributed to
improving the competitiveness of exportable and import substitutes. Export growth averaged 20
percent a year during the program period while import growth was negligible. Price and trade
reforms, coupled with legal and regulatory reforms, improved sectoral policies, a market-
determined exchange rate and a much needed reduction in taxes on exports helped create an
environment conducive to economic growth. Real GDP growth averaged about 3.8 percent over
the program period. Agriculture was the most responsive sector to reforms with output increasing
at an estimated 4.6 percent a year during program implementation.
8.    There has also been a significant change in the role of Government in managing the
economy. In addition to completing most price and trade liberalization reforms, the authorities
carried out a banking reform, adopted a new interest rate policy and later moved rates to positive
levels, and implemented a flexible exchange rate policy which helped eliminate the gap between
official and parallel rates. At the same time, the share of GDP allocated to current public spending
dropped and its allocation improved with an higher share going to education and health. Public
investment was scaled down and brought more in line with the country's absorptive capacity, with
its share to GDP falling from almost 32 percent in 1988 to about 19 percent in 1994. Civil service
staff was reduced by about 17 percent. Although slower than expected, there has been progress in
public enterprise reform with five companies being privatized and eight others put under private
management. Tax reforms moved slower than anticipated, contributing to the current weak
domestic resource mobilization capacity.
9.    The Bank's and the Borrower's performances were satisfactory. Regarding the Bank, it
was better during identification and supervision, than during preparation and appraisal. SAC II
iii



was timely identified to ensure the continuation of adjustment efforts launched during SAC I.
Procurement and disbursement seminars were carried out which helped the authorities comply
with established guidelines. The borrower participated actively in designing the program and there
was no delay in effectiveness after Board approval. Despite some initial weaknesses in terms of
internal financial control procedures, these were corrected with the new accounting system
adopted in 1992.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
10.   SAC II outcome is satisfactory. Substantial progress was achieved in stabilizing the
economy and implementing structural reforms which changed the incentive structure and
improved the country's competitiveness. However,  as anticipated, long-term  sustainability
remains fragile. Given the extensive distortions in incentive structure and macroeconomic balances
existing at the start of the adjustment program, the reform process must be continued through
reinforced efforts to address the causes of these distortions. In line with the objectives spelled out
in the 1994-97 PFP the focus should be on strengthening resource mobilization, scaling down
public expenditure and improving the effectiveness of resource allocation. The overall aim should
be to provide better access to and quality of basic services and promote human resource and
infrastructure development in the context of a broad based, export-oriented, sustainable and
private sector-led growth strategy.
11.   In the evolving political and social climate of Guinea-Bissau, the challenge for the Bank is
to assist the country in maintaining the reform momentum without over-stretching the
Government's still fragile capacity. Assuming satisfactory performance in implementing the
ESAF arrangement with the IMF, approved in January 1995, the Bank may consider preparing an
adjustment operation to assist the authorities in carrying-out reforms in the public sector,
especially to assist in improving the current dismal social sectors indicators.
12.   The following lessons may be drawn from the implementation of SAC II: (i) Government
commitment is a sine qua non condition for adjustment success. The "ups" and "downs" in the
Borrowers' performance under the program were closely related to wavering commitment caused,
inter alia, by internal political developments; (ii) flexibility in program implementation is crucial to
respond to fragile and evolving situations. However, close Bank supervision is required for
program implementation to benefit effectively from such flexibility; (iii) selectivity and realism are
essential aspects of program design in cases where institutional capacity is weak and the reform
agenda is vast; (iv) domestic resource mobilization, public expenditure allocation and human
resource development are central topics in the reform agenda in Guinea-Bissau to lay the
foundation of long-term sustainable growth, (v) donor coordination is vital to avoid conflicting
messages, ineffective use of development aid, and over-stretching the Government's weak
capacity; and (vi) debt burden reduction to manageable proportions is essential in a highly
indebted country such as Guinea-Bissau, to avoid that the debt service absorbs all the gains from
adjustment and becomes an inhibiting factor to development.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC II)
(CREDIT 2019-GUB)
PART I -- PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:                           Second Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit Number and Amount:       Cr. 2019-GUB of SDR 18.0 million
RVP Unit:                       Africa Region
Country:                        Guinea-Bissau
Sector:                        Macroeconomics
Date approved:                  May 18, 1989
Date effective:                 August 9, 1989
Date closed:                    December 31, 1994
B.  BACKGROUND
1.    Early developments: After independence in 1974, Guinea-Bissau faced the task of
rebuilding from the devastation of the liberation war which dislocated one-fifth of the population,
destroyed an important part of the infrastructure, reduced output of the main crops by over one-
third, and left a heavy legacy of extensive illiteracy and poor health and sanitary conditions. Upon
achieving independence, the Government adopted an inward-looking growth strategy, based on a
centrally planned model of development. An overly ambitious public investment program,
financed mainly by external borrowing, neglected the agriculture sector. This led to an
overextended and loss-making parastatal sector consisting of 39 enterprises. Continued
expansionary fiscal policies resulted in large deficits which were increasingly financed by the
Central Bank and fueled inflation. A pervasive system of price and marketing controls, including
the maintenance of an overvalued exchange rate, stimulated the expansion of parallel market
activities. By the early 1980s, the balance of payments deteriorated rapidly, exacerbated by service
on an external debt that exceeded GDP, and the country relied increasingly on donor assistance.
2.    Economic Recovery: At the end of 1983, to reverse the deteriorating economic situation,
the Government adopted an economic recovery program supported by a reconstruction import
credit of US$ 15.0 million (Credit 153 1-GUB, 1984) and a Technical Assistance (TA I) project of
US$ 6.0 million (Credit 1517-GUB, 1984) from IDA, as well as financing granted by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and several donors. The program aimed at promoting
stabilization and moving towards a market-oriented economy. After a period of initial success, the
program lost momentum in 1985 due to substantial overruns in government expenditures and
-1I-



delays in implementing price and trade liberalization measures. Internal and external disequilibria
became unsustainable. In 1985, excluding grants, the fiscal deficit on a commitment basis and the
current account deficit represented about 51 and 45 percent of GDP, respectively. During 1986,
domestic output declined, the outstanding external debt reached US$ 333 million, about forty
percent higher than GDP, and the scheduled debt service ratio rose to 54 percent of goods and
services. The differential between the official and the parallel exchange rates stood at three-to-
one.
3.    Structural Adjustment Program: Against this background, in 1987, the authorities
launched a far-reaching reform program which focused on reducing the direct role of government
in the economy and on restoring the country's competitiveness. The program, spelled out in the
PFP for 1987-89, was supported by a first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) of US$ 15.0
million (Credit 1798-GUB, 1987), and its design and implementation benefited from technical
assistance provided under the IDA-financed TA I project. Parallel financing and support was
provided by the IMF (SAF) and other development partners of Guinea-Bissau.
4.    First Structural Adjustment Credit: SAC I implementation was satisfactory on the
whole and the economy responded well. In 1987 and 1988, on average, real GDP growth reached
about 6 percent per year and exports increased by approximately 19 percent. Producer prices rose
sharply as a result of keen competition among traders. Quantitative restrictions were eliminated
on 75 percent of imports, the state monopoly on cereals was abolished and all domestic prices
were liberalized with the exception of those on petroleum products, imported rice and public
utilities. The number of civil servants was reduced by 15 percent. Public investment was
reoriented away from commercial projects and the share allocated to the primary sector increased
significantly (by about ten percentage points) compared to 1983, reaching 32 percent in 1988.
Taxes on exports were reduced, an excise tax on gasoline was introduced and electricity tariffs
were increased. The exchange rate premium was narrowed to less than 30 percent. However,
progress on the stabilization front was less than satisfactory. In 1988, inflation was still at 60
percent reflecting the government's inability to reduce the fiscal deficit and to control credit.
Excluding grants, the fiscal deficit on a commitment basis represented about 44 percent of GDP
and the current account deficit almost 46 percent of GDP. Moreover, the huge debt overhang
(almost three times GDP) continued to threaten the viability of the adjustment efforts.
5.    Second Structural Adjustment Credit: Mindful of the need to address these severe
imbalances, in early 1989, the Government decided to deepen its adjustment effort. The reform
program, embodied in the Government's Letter of Development Policy for SAC II, was agreed
with IDA and the IMF and summarized in the PFP for 1989-91. Reforms under the program were
supported by IDA through the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2019-GUB),
approved on May 18, 1989 for an amount of US$23.4 million equivalent. Cofinancing totaling
US$4.8 million was provided by the Netherlands. Parallel financing by the United States Agency
for International Development, the African Development Fund, and the IMF reached almost
US$21 million.
6.    Overall, SAC II implementation was satisfactory.  Given the satisfactory progress
achieved on the stabilization front since late 1992, the Government, in September 1994, agreed
with the Bank and the Fund on a policy framework for the period 1994-97 (PFP 1994-97). Late in
1994, a UNDP-sponsored Round Table helped to mobilize critical donor support to close the
financing gap identified in the PFP, especially for 1994-95. The 1994-97 PFP forms the basis for a
- 2 -



three-year ESAF arrangement with the IMF, approved in January 1995. A recent assessment
indicates that in late 1994 there were slippages in policy implementation caused by the political
transition, following multiparty elections in 1994. The newly-elected Government has reaffirmed
its commitment to implementation of much-needed reform measures.
C.  PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
7.    Program  Objectives:   The overall objectives of SAC  II were to support the
Government's structural adjustment program aimed at removing institutional and policy barriers
to growth, particularly in private agriculture and fisheries, and to improve the supply-side
response of the economy. Its specific objectives (para. 22 of the SAC II President's Report) were
to:
* generate diversified growth,
* promote greater economic stability;
* change the role of government from involvement in productive activities to the
provision of essential public services; and
* reduce the external debt burden to manageable proportions.
8.    Evaluation of Objectives: The objectives were comprehensive, relevant for the country's
development, and consistent with IDA's country assistance strategy aimed at promoting long-
term and sustainable growth. However, progress achieved with SAC I and TA I may have
contributed to an overly optimistic assessment of the Government's ability to maintain over time
its initial strong commitment to adjustment. On the stabilization front this strong commitment did
not materialize until late 1992, causing significant delays in program implementation.
9.    Program  Design: The program was ambitious in scope compared to the time frame
allowed for under the credit. It attempted to tackle several important reforms in too short a time
although the Government's institutional capacity was known to be weak. This holds despite the
fact that program implementation substantially benefited from parallel implementation of the
second IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project (TA II -- Credit 1935-GUB, 1988). Weak
project design has certainly played a role in tranche release delays (about two and a half years, as
compared to the initial schedule). On the bright side, the design of the program and conditionality
allowed for fine-tuning of macro targets and adjusting the program to the evolving political and
economic situation. In some areas of reform, performance indicators could have been better
specified.
10.   Risks: The main risks identified during appraisal were realistic. The most important risk,
Government's weak administrative capacity, contributed to delays in certain areas of the program
such as public investment programming. Another identified risk, that of opposition to the program
turned out to be real, especially if "opposition" is taken to include wavering Borrower
commitment. Until late 1992, this contributed to non-compliance with monetary and fiscal targets
and did pose the largest obstacle to the efficient implementation of the program. An additional
-3 -



risk, that of adverse terms of trade or growing debt overhang, was correctly identified at
appraisal, but was not a major cause for the longer than expected implementation period.
D.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11.   As discussed below and summarized in the attached Table 5 of Part II, the objectives of
SAC II on the stabilization and structural fronts were substantially met. In view of the nature of
the program, no provision was made for calculating the intemal rate of return or discounted net
value.
(i)    Promoting greater economic stability
12.   Performance on the stabilization front was uneven over the 1989-94 period and was the
leading cause for late tranche releases. However, since late 1992, the Government's renewed
commitment to stabilization policies resulted in satisfactory progress as measured by a significant
decline of both the fiscal and current account deficits and the inflation rate. Notwithstanding this
progress, further efforts to reduce these deficits and the level of inflation will be needed to
establish a firm foundation for sustained longer-term growth.
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Primary fiscal balance (% GDP)    2.0    -1.9     7.3    0.2      0.6    2.0      3.1
Overall fiscal deficit, excl. grants   43.7    42.7    25.4   35.8    38.1   28.4    21.5
(% GDP)
Current account deficit, excl.  46.0    48.1    25.5   35.6    48.5   28.4    18.4
grants (% GDP)
Annual average inflation (%)    60.3    80.8    33.0   57.6    69.6   29.6    15.2
13.   In 1989, major fiscal and credit policy slippages occurred during the second semester. The
ratio of the primary fiscal balance to GDP deteriorated due to expenditure overruns. The broad
money end-December benchmarks were exceeded by wide margins. The money supply increase
was twice as high as initially programmed. Inflation accelerated from 60 to about 81 percent
between 1988 and 1989. Consequently, the release of the second tranche, originally programmed
for the first quarter of 1990, was deferred.
14.   During 1990, strengthened fiscal policies and restrictive credit policies were adopted to
correct slippages in the program, and bring it back on track. Macroeconomic performance
improved, resulting in a sharp reduction in inflation which came down to about 33 percent.
Measures to liberalize the foreign exchange market were implemented to reestablish a competitive
rate. As a result, the gap between the official and parallel exchange rates was narrowed to less
than 20 percent. These developments led to the second tranche release in early January 1991,
almost a year later than initially envisaged.
-4-



15.   Stabilization policies weakened again in 1991 and most of 1992. Tax revenue shortfalls
coupled with excessive government spending and inappropriate credit policies caused inflation to
accelerate again to 70 percent in 1992, double the 1990 level. The exchange rate depreciated
sharply. Economic activity slackened and there was a sizable accumulation of external payment
arrears. The macroeconomic situation remained critical throughout much of 1992. The release of
the third tranche, initially envisaged for early 1991, was postponed.
16.   However, since late 1992, the deteriorating economic and financial situation was reversed
due to the authorities' renewed commitment to stabilization. This allowed for significant progress
in reducing macroeconomic imbalances. Strengthened domestic demand helped to improve fiscal
performance. Progress achieved was primarily due to a significant restraint in government
expenditures. Indeed, resource mobilization remained inadequate representing only about 12
percent of GDP in 1994. Broad money growth slowed to less than half the 1992 level of 111
percent, helped by a boost in interest rates to positive levels. Improved policies have begun to
show results. In 1994, inflation slowed down to 15 percent and the spread between the official
and parallel market exchange rates narrowed to 2 percent. This compares to the SAC initial
objective to keep the spread within the range of 20 percent. Given the progress attained, the third
tranche was released in June 1993, almost two and a half years later than initially scheduled.
(ii)   Generation of more diversified growth
17.   The second key objective of SAC II was to encourage economic diversification through a
market-oriented and private sector-led growth. Changes in the incentive structure coupled with an
opening of the economy to market forces contributed to improve the competitiveness of
exportables and import substitutes. Export growth averaged 20 percent a year during the program
period while import growth was negligible. Price and trade policies, coupled with legal and
regulatory reforms and improved sectoral policies helped create an environment conducive to
economic growth.
18.   Price and trade liberalization have been basically completed.  Subsidies on rice were
eliminated and, currently, only petroleum products and public utilities have their prices
administratively set, with adjustments taking place periodically to reflect changes in the cost
structure. All minimum farmgate prices for tradable primary commodities were eliminated. As for
trade, the Dicol (petroleum products) monopoly was abolished. Agricultural marketing is private-
sector based. A duty free shop "Lojas Francas" benefiting from preferential tax treatment was
shut down. The automatic import licensing system was expanded to all products except for a
limited negative list of goods for security and health reasons. Legal and regulatory reforms to
improve the business environment have started. A new investment code was adopted in 1991.
Business registration procedures have started to be eased. Minimum shipment requirements for
agricultural commodities exports were also abolished. Road haulage and public transportation
activities have been privatized.
19.   Structural adjustment has resulted in significant changes in Guinea-Bissau's economic
system. Adoption of market-determined exchange rate policies, abolition of state-run foreign
trade monopolies, and much needed reductions of taxes on exports, especially on cashew (which
represents 80 percent of exports and whose taxes were curtailed from about 40 percent in 1988 to
13 percent in 1994) provided the required incentives to the economy. Real GDP growth averaged
-5-



about 3.8 percent from 1988 to 1994, with the economy rebounding to 6.3 percent annual growth
in 1994 after a period of slackened economic activity. Over the same period, domestic savings as
percentage of GDP have been reduced from negative 11 percent to positive 2.5 percent. From
1988 to 1994, the share of exports of goods and services in GDP increased by 6 percentage points
to about 23 percent, while imports of goods and services shrunk from 64 to 42 percent.
20.   Agriculture has been the most responsive sector to reforms with output increasing at an
estimated 4.6 percent a year during the program period. In the fishing and forestry sectors (the
main sources of economic growth after agriculture) the need to raise the country's revenues
increased the danger of resource depletion. Fishing agreements provided significant foreign
exchange revenues, generating almost 36 percent of budgetary revenues. However, weak
capacity to enforce fishing rights in territorial waters increased the risk for overfishing (as recent
estimates of diminishing yields seem to confirm). In forestry, although license fees and fines have
increased, expanding logging and limited reforestation have heightened the danger of
deforestation. Prelimninary estimates point to a nearly 3 percent annual loss of the forest cover. If
this rate is not reversed, the forest cover would decrease by 30 percent, from 63 to 44 percent of
the total land area, by the year 2000.
(iii)  Change the role of government from involvement in productive activities to
the provision of essential public services
21.   In addition to completing most price and trade liberalization reforms, the authorities
decided in 1990 to carry out a banking reform which led to a separation of the central,
commercial and development functions of the former National Bank. A Central Bank was
established as the monetary authority, and two privately owned commercial banks were created.
Moreover, the authorities abolished interest rate differentials according to end-use (crop credit,
commerce, etc.) and retained only three rates according to lending term. Positive interest rates
have been adopted since 1993. In the meantime, since the second half of 1991, a flexible exchange
rate policy helped to gradually narrow the gap between the official and parallel rates.
22.   The share of GDP allocated to current public spending has dropped during SAC II
implementation. Although public consumption has increased by about two percentage points to
reach 11.6 percent of GDP in 1991, recent strengthened public expenditure control led to its
reduction by almost 4 percentage points to 7.9 percent of GDP in 1994. Moreover, the allocation
of current budget resources (excluding interest payments) has improved, with the share of public
current spending in education and health, after dropping to about 14 percent (almost 10
percentage points) from 1988 to 1990, bouncing back to approximately 20 percent in 1994.
However, public spending on maintenance of economic and social infrastructures continued to be
inadequate at about 5 percent of GDP (1994). Furthermore, the share of military and paramilitary
expenditures in the government's current spending dropped from approximately 23 percent in
1988 to about 18 percent in 1994. Early in the program, there were about 15,000 civil servants,
excluding the military and paramilitary. During the program period, civil service reform has
proceeded slower than anticipated but, at end-1994, an additional reduction of about 17 percent
in the number of civil servants has been achieved, broadly in line with the SAC II objective.
Regarding financing, 1994 current expenditures, including scheduled interest payments, were 32
percent higher than total fiscal and non-fiscal revenues. The burden of programmed interest
payments is well evidenced by the about 46 percent share they represent of fiscal revenues.
- 6 -



23.   Despite technical assistance provided under the program, tax reform progress was slower
than anticipated. This has contributed to the current weak domestic resource mobilization
capacity. In 1994, tax revenues represented only about 6 percent of GDP, roughly a third of the
SSA average. Recently, customs management have been strengthened, by implementing
computerized systems in 1993. This has increased the accuracy of custom's data, has contributed
to a better verification of imports entering into the country and has contributed to improve
collection of international trade taxes.
24.   Additionally, during SAC II, public investment management has improved. However,
given the very low initial base, the monitoring of the Public Investment Program (PIP) remains
weak. Reflecting the need to bring public investment more in line with the country's absorptive
capacity, its share to GDP has fallen from almost 32 percent in 1988 to about 19 percent in 1994,
although the ICOR continues to be somewhat high in the range of 8 (1990-94). Simultaneously,
there has been a reallocation of public investment resources in favor of priority sectors. Thus,
over the program period, the share of the PIP allocated to road and water infrastructure increased
by almost 20 percentage points to 39 percent, and the share allocated to education and health
increased from 12 to 17 percent. During the same period, the share of PIP allocated to the
primary sector came down 5 percentage points, to 27 percent. Public investment continues to rely
almost exclusively on donor assistance (97- 99 percent).
25.   From  1990 to 1993, progress in public enterprise reform, has been uneven. Three
enterprises engaged in manufacturing, one in commerce and one in hotel services have been
privatized. The electricity and water facility, the port authority, the telecommunications company,
two tourist resorts, one hotel, one cold storage and one manufacturing facility were put under
private management. Following the decision to liberalize import of petroleum products, the
authorities are committed to liquidate the state-owned petroleum importing and distribution
company. In 1994, three additional companies EGA (vehicule maintenance facility), JAPG
(Maritime port services) and Guinemar (state-owned shipping company) have been liquidated. In
August 1992, after being criticized for lack of transparency, the authorities approved the legal
framework for the divestiture of parastatals.
(iv)   Reduce the external debt burden to manageable proportions
26.   The authorities were unable to reduce the debt burden to manageable proportions, despite
the Paris Club rescheduling in 1989 on Toronto terms. This confirmed the appraisal assessment
that without very favorable rescheduling terms, the country would not come close to the SPA
objective of a debt service ratio of no more than 25 percent. During SAC II implementation, the
Government followed a prudent external debt management policy. However, past inadequate
external debt policies resulted in a huge debt overhang implying a debt service burden that is an
inhibiting factor to development. At the end of 1994, the medium- and long-term public debt
represented more than three times GDP, of which about 40 percent was owed to multilateral
institutions. The debt service ratio, including the stock of arrears from previous period and before
debt relief, reached about 564 percent, i.e. almost six times export of goods and services.
- 7 -



E.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
27.   Three main factors affected SAC II implementation: Borrower commitment, political
developments, and ambitious program design.
28.   Borrower commitment: Until late 1992, in spite of progress achieved on the structural
front, the recurring theme of SAC II implementation was wavering borrower commitment to
stabilization policies. This derailed the program several times, postponing tranche releases. Given
achievements during the first two years of SAC I (1987-88) donor support was very strong in
1989, when grants peaked to represent about 29 percent of GDP. This strong donor support may
have had an unintended negative impact on the authorities'resolve to implement the reform
program supported by SAC II as they, in the early 1990s, still had access to funding from other
donors with less stringent conditions. Later on, as donors became less generous, Guinea-Bissau
faced severe funding shortages. Since late 1992, however, SAC II implementation track record
improved substantially due to renewed Government commitment to the reform program.
29.   Political developments: A second important factor affecting implementation of SAC II
was the announcement in 1991 of the transition to a multiparty system of Government. Initially,
the Government's adjustment efforts weakened as its concentration on implementing the
economic reforms in a timely manner was diverted to the political arena. As mentioned above,
momentum for the program would not be regained until late 1992. In 1993 and early 1994,
despite the preparations for the country's first multiparty elections held in 1994, the Government
successfully implemented IMF monitored shadow programs which opened the way for the
preparation of the 1994-97 PFP, agreed with the Bank and the Fund in September 1994.
30.   Ambitious program  design: A  third factor which negatively affected SAC  II
implementation was the ambitious nature of the program. The scope of SAC II was too broad and
the timing too demanding to be managed by the authorities whose institutional capacity was
known to be weak. Although technical assistance was being provided simultaneously, the base
from which improvements were launched was very weak. As a result, the program overestimated
the Government's implementation capacity. This contributed to considerable delays in
disbursements.
F.    PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
31.   Overall, achievements are likely to be sustainable. Great strides were made in terms of
liberalizing the economy, and most of the reforms, in the areas of pricing, exchange rate, interest
rate, trade, banking, and transportation policy reforms, are expected to be maintained. In addition,
public enterprise and civil service reforms seem recently to have regained momentum. However,
progress that has been achieved so far on all these fronts requires consolidation. Sustained efforts
need to be made and priority given to strengthen domestic resource mobilization, improve the
effectiveness in allocation and use of public resources, promote human resource development and
speed up the divestiture of public enterprises to maintain the momentum of the adjustment efforts
and to reduce the country's extreme dependence on external financing.
- 8 -



G.  BANK PERFORMANCE
32.   The Bank's overall performance in SAC II was satisfactory, albeit different during each
phase of the program. In 1988, during program identification, the Bank's attention was correctly
focused on consolidating progress achieved within the framework of SAC 1, which was coming to
a close, and expanding restructuring of the country's economy. Looking back, it is clear that
preparation and appraisal of SAC II were not fully satisfactory given the less than adequate
assessment of two key factors: (i) excessive optimism about the Government's ability to maintain
during the implementation of SAC II the strong commitment to adjustment shown under SAC I;
and, (ii) excessive ambition in terms of scope and timing of the reforms. The project was
processed smoothly, with effectiveness being granted soon after SAC I was completed.
Supervision of the project was highly satisfactory with substantial staff resources devoted to it in a
sustained manner (on average every 3-4 months each year) and with little staff turnover.
Supervision missions were well documented. Additionally, the Bank demonstrated flexibility in
agreeing to three extensions of the loan closing date, allowing most of the program's objectives to
be met. This pragmatism was crucial to the success of the program, given the political and
economic transition the country was going through. Supervision missions were also closely
coordinated with the IMF, and other donors were regularly invited to participate in them.
H.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Preparation  and  Implementation.   The Borrower's overall performance was
satisfactory given that the objectives spelled out in SAC II were substantially met although with
some delay. Notwithstanding, performance varied over time. Given its recent experience with
SAC I, the authorities were familiar with the adjustment measures and IDA procedures, and were
able to participate actively in the project design. This led to no delay in effectiveness after
approval. Regarding implementation, as already indicated, weak commitment to stabilization
policies in the period prior to late 1992, contributed to significant delays in tranche release, 12
months for the second tranche, and almost 30 months for the third tranche. From then on,
renewed commitment to tight fiscal and monetary policies led to a substantial performance
improvement.
34.   Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement and disbursement seminars were
provided under both SAC I and SAC II. The Borrower followed established guidelines in its
procurement of goods and services. Weak capacity and the extensive role of the informal sector
led to difficulties in collecting the required import documentation and caused disbursements to be
slow. Disbursements of SAC II resources financed, essentially, import of consumption goods (60
%) and oil products (29 %). The loan was only recently fully disbursed, the last disbursement of
US$ 119,371.08 being made on May 12, 1995.
35.   Audits and Accounts. The Government complied with the audit covenants in the credit
agreement and maintained a Special Account as agreed. Initially the first two annual audits found
that internal control procedures were not as tight as they should be.  With IDA technical
assistance, a new accounting system was put in place in 1992, and audits and account
management were satisfactory from then on.
-9-



I.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   SAC II outcome is classified as satisfactory given that program  objectives were
substantially met on both the stabilization and structural fronts. The country's improved
competitiveness contributed to achieve the expected annual average export growth of 20 percent
during the program period. This development coupled with negligible import growth helped bring
the ratio of resource gap to GDP down from 45 percent in 1989 to about 18 percent in 1994. This
exceeds the initial SAC II target of improving this ratio by 7 percentage points. Moreover, such
outcome was achieved despite an annual average GDP growth slightly below (about 3.8 percent)
the targeted 4-5 percent, due to slower (approximately 4.6 percent) than the expected 6 percent
annual growth of agriculture output.
37.   However, long-term sustainability remains fragile. As anticipated in SAC II, given the
initial extremely high level of distortions in the economy, it was clear that despite progress
achieved, large macroeconomic imbalances would remain at the end of the SAC II-supported
program, calling for continued commitment to address the sources of desequilibria. The overall
fiscal and current account deficits, excluding grants, remain inordinately high (range of 19-22
percent of GDP), resulting into an excessive reliance on external assistance. Despite the 1.5
percent average annual increase of per capita incomes during SAC II, social indicators still reflect
a dismal picture of pervasive poverty.
38.   Therefore, the agreed 1994-97 PFP envisages strengthening resource mobilization, scaling
down public expenditure and improving its allocation. The PFP aims at providing better access to
and quality of basic services and promoting human resource and infrastructure development in
the context of a broad-based, sustainable and private sector-led growth strategy.
J.    FUTURE OPERATION
39.   In the evolving political and social climate of Guinea-Bissau, the challenge of the Bank is
to assist the country in maintaining the reform momentum without over-stretching the
Government's still fragile capacity. Adjustment has redistributed income from urban public sector
employees to rural producers of tradable goods. Nevertheless, the level of poverty remains critical
high as shown by a recent IDA-assessment which estimates that almost 50 percent of the
population lives in poverty, with about a quarter living in extreme poverty. Poverty is
overwhelmingly a rural problem, with more than two thirds of the poor living in rural households.
Poor resource allocation in the past is reflected in provision of inadequate services. Social
indicators are among the poorest in Sub-Saharan Africa, and some are deteriorating. Moreover,
important and productive parts of the country are isolated during the rainy season. The current
state of the road network imposes high transport costs which are a constraint to a stronger supply
response.
40.   Assuming continued commitment to structural adjustment, in the framework of sound
macroeconomic policies as envisaged in the 1994-97 PFP, the Bank could consider preparing an
adjustment operation to assist the authorities in accelerating the design and implementation of
much needed reforms in the public sector. The focus could be on strengthening domestic resource
mobilization, stepping up public enterprise reforms, improving public expenditure management
and promoting education and health sector development.
- l0-



K.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   The following lessons may be draw from the implementation of SAC II:
*  Commitment is a sine qua non condition for adjustment success. Strong Government
commitment to the reform process is critical if policy actions are to be sustained. The
"ups" and "downs" in the implementation of the reform program were closely related
to wavering commitment on part of the Borrowers caused, inter alia, by internal
political developments. SAC II demonstrates that significant progress can be achieved,
in a relatively short period, if the authorities commit themselves to pursue the policy
agenda;
*  Flexibility is crucial to respond to fragile and evolving situations, to allow fine tuning
the program and address issues not fully identified at the outset. However, close Bank
supervision is required for program implementation to benefit from such flexibility,-and
performance criteria must be tailored to meet country-specific conditions. In SAC II
this allowed to ensure that, although later than originally envisaged, program
objectives were substantially met,
*  Selectivity and realism are essential aspects of program  design when institutional
capacity is weak and the reform agenda is vast. In such situations there is a need to
define a hierarchy of reforms and identify those that must proceed simultaneously.
Poorly targeted and overly ambitious programs may unnecessarily prolong the
implementation period;
*  Domestic resource mobilization, more effective public expenditure allocation and
human resource development are central topics in the reform agenda in Guinea-Bissau
to lay the foundation of long-term sustainable growth. In parallel, budget
comprehensiveness and transparency must be improved by incorporating autonomous
funds and the public investment program, by ensuring appropriate coverage of donor
assistance, and by reflecting better the sectoral resource allocation,
*  Donor coordination is vital to avoid conflicting messages, inefficient use of
development aid, and over-stretching the Government's weak capacity. Consensus
among donor's about the reform agenda is important right from the beginning, to
encourage greater partnership;
*  Debt burden reduction to manageable proportions is essential in a highly indebted
country such as Guinea-Bissau, to avoid that the debt service absorbs all the gains
from adjustment and becomes an inhibiting factor to development.
- I I -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC H)
(CREDIT 2019-GUB)
PART II -- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial           Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                X
Sector Policies                           X
Financial Objectives                                          X
Institutional Development                 X
Physical Objectives                       X
Poverty Reduction                                             X
Gender Issues                                                                                  X
Other Social Objectives                                                                        x
Environmental Objectives                                                                       X
Public Sector Management                                      X
Private Sector Development                                    X
Other
B. Project Sustainability          Likely        [    Unlikely         Uncertain
Second Structural Adjustment              X               _
Credit                         l                      l
C. Bank Performance         Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                X
Preparation assistance                                        X
Appraisal                                                     X
Supervision                                                   X
D. Borrower Performance       Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                   X
Implementation                                                                 X
Covenant compliance                                           X
Operation                                                     X
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Unsatisfactory
Second Structural Adjustment
C redit                         _____________________   ___________-___
- 12 -



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                                  Purpose                       Year of    Status
Approval
1. Technical Assistance                    Institutional strengthening support, particularly to  1984     fully
economic ministries and National Bank , and sectoral         disbursed
studies.
2. Structural Adjustment Credit, SAC I     Support for the Gov't's economic recovery program   1987       fully
and the first phase of the structural adjustment            disbursed
program
3. Second Technical Assistance Project, TA II  Institutional strengthening, financing of sectoral  1988   fully
studies advisors for economic ministries, and training.     disbursed
4. Social and Infrastructure Relief Project  Social Infrastructure Rehabilitation based on labor  1989    fully
intensive solutions                                         disbursed
5. Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project   Support for institutional strengthening, including the  1991  ongoing
planning capacity, of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport and road rehabilitation
6. Economic Management Project             Strengthening of the Gov't's capacity to formulate and    1992  ongoing
implement a well-designed and integrated set of
economic policies and reforms
7. Social Sector Project                   Strengthening of the Govt's poverty alleviation efforts   1993  ongoing
through targeted assistance and institutional
strengthening
- 13-



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in          Date             Date
Project Cycle      Planned          Actual
Identification
Preparation            6/20/88          6/20/88
Appraisal              11/14/88        11121/88
Negotiations           3/14/89          3/14/89
Board Presentation     5/1 8/89         5/1 8/89
Signing                6/29/89          6/29/89
Effectiveness           8/9/89          8/9/89
First Tranche           8/9/89          8/9/89
Second Tranche          3/1/90          1/8/91
Third Tranche           8/1/91          7/14/93
Project Completion     12/30/91         6J30/95
Loan Closing           6/30/92         12/31/94
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Appraisal Estimate    16.90    23.40          .         ._.
Actual                  9.70      15.51     16.39    16.43    19.90    24.32
Actual as % of           60        66         ..
estimate
Date of final          May 12, 1995
disbursement          I
Note: By the end of project implementation, the original SDR credit amount had become equivalent to
USS 24.32 million.
- 14 -



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 1/3)
Key Policy Objectives in the                              Monitorable Actions and                                           Status
President's Report                                   Implementation Schedule
Exchange Rate Policy
Maintain a flexible exchange rate system.               By 2nd tranche: gap with parallel market not more than 20%.    Met. Since August 1990 the spread has been below 20 %.
By 3rd tranche: gap with parallel market not more than 20%.    Met in 199]. Rate continued to decline and was 5 % in
December 1992. Rates unified since early 1994.
Monetary Policy
(a) allow growth in money and credit consistent with balance of  By effectiveness: observe the agreed second quarter  Met and credit declared effective 8/9/89.
payments, inflation, and growth targets for economy; and (b)  benchmarks on net domestic assets and on net credit to the
restrict access of Central Government and public enterprises to   Gov't.
credit, and expand private sector access to credit for productive
purposes.                                               By 2nd tranche: implement the agreed fiscal and monetary  Met. While there were slippages in 1989, targets were met in
program in 1989, and adopt a satisfactory program for 1990,  1990; (a) interest rate policy: Since Sept. 1990 interest rate
including: (a) interest rate policy; and (b) export tax for  differentials a/c to end use were abolished and new structure
cashews.                                                 based on lending term was adopted . (b) export taxes were
reduced from 40% to 35% during 1990.
By 3rd tranche: implement the agreed fiscal and monetary  Met by June 1993 after slippages in 1991 and most of 1992;
program for 1990, and adopt a satisfactory program for 1991,    (a) interest rate: substantially met by June 1993 with adoption
including: (a) interest rate policy; (b) export tax for cashews;    of flexible interest rate policy and move to positive rates; (b)
and (c) tax and tariff reforms.                         export tax: progressively reduced to 13% in 1994; (c) Tax and
tariff reforms are being implemented.
Fiscal Policy
Simplify tax and budget administration, broaden revenue base    By etfectiveness: None
and reduce distortions.
By 2nd tranche: implement tax/tariff reforms, implement  Not met in 1989. Met in 1990. Tax and tariff reforms are being
satisfactorily 1989 fiscal program; agree on 1990 budget.  implemented.
By 3rd tranche: implement satisfactorily 1990 fiscal program;    Met by June 1993 after slippages in 1991 and most of 1992.
agree on 1991 budget
Public Expenditure Program
Improve planning, execution, monitoring and evaluation of  By effectiveness: None.
public expenditure program, particularly the Government's
counterpart funds.                                      By 2nd tranche: agree PIP for 1990, and achieve satisfactory  Met for both the 2nd and 3rd tranche . PIP continued to be
outcome for 1989.                                       reoriented away from directly productive investments with
commercial potential.
By 3rd tranche: agrec PIP for 1991 and achieve satisfactory
outcome for 1990.
- 15 -



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 2/3)
Key Policy Objectives in the                             Monitorable Actions and                                          Status
Prcsident's Report                                  Implementation Schedule
Tradc and Price Liberalization
Eliminate quantitative restrictions on imports and liberalize  By effectiveness: None.
trade and prices.
By 2nd tranche: (a) maintain open general license, except for    Met. Legal and administrative instruments necessary to
short negative list; (b) eliminate all price controls, except on  deregulate all retail prices, with the exception of petroleum
petroleum which should be sold at import parity.        products, were enacted. Price controls on rice were eliminated
in 1989 and since 1990 petroleum prices have been adjusted
regularly to reflect changes in costs.
By 3rd tranche: (a) maintain open general license, except for    Met. Price liberalization maintained, except for petroleum
short negative list; (b) continue to sell petroleum at import  products which continue to be sold at import parity levels. An
parity,                                                 automatic import licensing system was adopted for all products
except for a negative list of goods for security and health
reasons. Petroleum products imports were liberalized in 1994.
Agriculture
Stimulate domestic production by-(a) maintaining competitive    By effectiveness: None.
economic environment, (b) further reducing biases against
export and improving efficiency and effectiveness of    By 2nd tranche: reduce cashew export tax for 1990 in    Met for 2nd and 3rd tranches. Export taxes were reduced from
institutional support.                                  agreement with IDA.                                     40% to 35% during 1990 and further reduced to 13% in 1994.
Minimum farmgate prices were eliminated and minimum
By 3rd tranche: reduce cashew export tax for 1991 in   shipment requirements for agricultural commodities abolished.
agreement with IDA.
Forestrv
Improve efficiency and export earnings of forestry sector paying  None.                                         A NEAP has been prepared in April 1993. After having
attention to ecological balance.                                                                                increased up until 1992, exports slowed down.
Fishing
Increase revenue to economy and to Government from fishing    By effectiveness: None
sector.
By 2nd tranche: start to implement agreed recommendations on   Met. Government successfully renegotiated fishing agreements
fisheries legislation, licensing contracts, and regulations.  with the EEC and the USSR and sold SEMAPESCA.
-16 -



Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation (continued 3/3)
Key Policy Objectives in the                              Monitorable Actions and                                          Status
President's Report                                   Implementation Schedule
Private Sector Investment Promotion
Promote small and medium scale investment, particularly in  None.                                               A new investment code was prepared with FIAS assistance and
import substitution and export activities and reform commercial                                                 adopted in 1991.
and development banking system.
Banking Reform
Improve efficiency and effectiveness of financial sector.  None.                                                New commercial banking law introduced and banking reform
implemented which led the establishment of a Central Bank
and two privately-owned commercial banks.
Public Enterprise Reform
Reorganize and improve efficiency of public enterprises,  By effectiveness: None.
privatizing public enterprises engaged in directly productive
investment with commercial potential                    By 2nd tranche: None                                    EAGB (power and water utility) was put under a management
contract in 1989.
By 3rd tranche: satisfactory progress in implementing public  Five companies have been privatized and seven more put
enterprise reform including EAGB, in accordance with agreed    under private management.
action plan..
Civil Service Reform
Improve efficiency and cost effectiveness of civil service. I  None.                                           Between 1989 and 1994 17% of the civil service was
released. A census has been carried out.
Alleviation of the Social Costs of Adiustment.
Policies to alleviate the negative impact of the SAP    None.                                                  A Social and Infrastructure Relief project was approved by IDA
in 1989. This project focused labor-intensive techniques and
included a Retraining Unit for retrenched public sector
employees.
An assessment of the adjustment impact was published in
1993.
A Poverty Assessment was prepared in 1994.
The allocation of budgetary resources to Education and Health
sectors have been increasing since the early 1 990s.
Debt Service Burden Reduction
Reduce debt service burden on economy by a combination of  None.                                               A Paris Club rescheduling was agreed on Toronto terms in
maximum relief from rescheduling and contracting new loans                                                     1989. The Govemment has adopted a prudent extemal debt
with grant element of not less than 50.                                                                        management policy.
- 17-



Table 6: Studies included in the Program
Study                              Purpose                    Status           Impact
Private Sector Investment             Recommend revisions to investment   Completed       Private Sector
code and                                            Investment
Incentives                            private sector regulations to stimulate             Code revised with
private
sector investment and improve                       additional
investment                                          assistance from
climate.                                            USAID
Introduction of Domestic              Analyze the effect of introduction of a Completed   Two new
new                                                 commercial
Commercial Banking                    domestic commercial bank and draft                  banks established
organic                                             as well
laws and regulations for it.                        as a Central Bank.
Consequences of Entry of              Analyze the costs and benefits of  Completed        Guinea-Bissau's
entry into the                                      entry into
Borrower into the Western             Western Africa Monetary Union                       UMOA was
postponed until
Africa Monetary Union                                                                     the
macroeconomic
situation is
stabilized.
Cashew Export Tax                     Analyze the effects of the cashew  Completed        Cashew
export tax on                                       production
increased
cashew production and government                    and export tax
revenues.                                           reduced.
Table 7: Program Financing
(in US$ Million)
Source                     Appraisal Estimate                             Actual
Local      Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign          Total
IDA                23.4          23.4                     23.4            23.4
Cofinancing Institutions:             21 .3        21.3                     21 .3           21 .3
Netherlands                4.8           4.8                      4.8             4.8
USAID                  4.5          4.5                      4.5             4.5
African Dev. Fund                 12           12                       12              12
Other External Sources a/               4.3           4.3                      4.3             4.3
Domestic Contribution
TOTAL                  49            49                       49              49
a/ The IMF provided $4.3 million equivalent under its Structural Adjustment Facility.
- 18-



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 1/2)
Article                           Covenant                             Compliance Status
3.01(a)              The Borrower and the Association shall from time to   Complied
time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program
and the actions specific in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.01(b)              Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower    Complied
shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.02                 Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  Complied
procurement of the goods and consultants' services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3.03(a)              The Borrower shall not later than thirty days after the  Complied
Effective Date, open and maintain a counterpart
funds account in BNG.
3.03(b)              The Borrower shall deposit into such Counterpart  Complied overall, although some
Funds Account the local currency generated form the   slippages were noted.
sale of foreign exchange by BNG under the Credit.
3.03(c)              The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its   Complied overall, although data
review and comments, quarterly reports on the use of  was not always up to date.
said counterpart funds in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.04(a)              The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be       Complied.
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
3.04(bXi)            The Borrower shall have the records and accounts  Complied. First two annual audits
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section including   were not acceptable. After new
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year  accounting system was put in place,
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing  remaining audits were approved.
principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association.
3.04(bXii)           The Borrower shall furnish to the Association as  Complied.
soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
3.04(b) (iii)        The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such  Complied.
other information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.04(c)              For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
3.04(cXi)             maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance  Complied
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures.
- 19-



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued 2/2)
Article                           Covenant                             Compliance Status
3.04(c)(ii)             retain, until at least one year after the Association   Complied
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures.
3.04(c) (iii)           enable the Association's representatives to   Complied
examine such records, and
3.04(c)(iv)             ensure that such records and accounts are     Complied
included in the annual audits referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.                                                                      l
- 20 -



Table 9: IDA Resources -- Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Planned                 Revised                 Actual
Project Cycle         Staffweeks|   US$        Staftweeks|  US$    Staffweeks    US$
Preparation/Preappraisal           32          121.6         22        83.6         42        159.6
Appraisal                          53          201.4         22        83.6         23         87.4
Negotiations to Board              13          49.4         19.5       74.1        19.6        74.5
Supervision                        132         501.6       241.2       916.6      233.6       887.7
Cornpltion                        12.1          46          12.1        46         12.1         46
TOTAL   242.1         920         316.8    1203.9    330.3          1255.2
- 21 -



Table 10: IDA Resources -- Staff Missions
Stage of           Month and        No. of         Days in            Special.             Performance Rating a/       Types of
Project Cycle           Year         Persons          Field           Staff Skills       Implementation    Dev. Objectives Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal to Board
Board to Effectiveness
Supervision                  Jan-90                 7               14 econ, pub.sec.mgmt            2                 2           M
Apr-90                 3               14 econ                          2                2           M
Jul-90                2                 4 econ                          2                3           T
Nov-90                 5               14 econ; banking                 1                 2           T
Mar-91                 7               14 econ; legal                   2                 2         M/P
Jun-91                 6               14 econ                          2                2           M
Nov-91                 1                4 econ                          1                2           M
Apr-92                 4               14 econ                          2                2           M
Jul-92                5               21 econ                           3                3          M/T
Nov-92                 3               14 econ                          3                3          M/P
Mar-94                 2               14 econ                          2                2          O/P
Completion                   May-95                 1                7 econ
TOTAL                                            148
a/ Key to Rating: 1 = Problem-free or minor problems 2 = Moderate problem
b/ Key to Problem: M = Managerial, T = Technical, P = Political, 0 = Other
-22 -



Appendix A
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2019-GUB)
Implementation Completion Mission
(May 22 -- June 6, 1995)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(Translation from Portuguese)
1.    A World Bank mission comprised of Marcelo Andrade visited Guinea-Bissau from
May 22 to June 6, 1995. The objectives of the mission were to (i) join the LMF in its
ESAF first year mid-term review, (ii) carry out, together with the Borrower, the
Implementation Completion Mission for the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
II, Credit 2019-GUB), and (iii) to exchange opinions about future cooperation between
the Bank and Guinea-Bissau. Between May 29-31, 1995, the mission was led by Birger
Fredriksen, Chief, Country Operations Division in the West Africa Department of the
World Bank. The mission would like to thank the Government of Guinea-Bissau for its
support and assistance to the mission. This aide-memoire summarizes the conclusions of
the Implementation Completion Mission for SAC II, which are subject to confirmation by
Bank's management upon the mission's return. The conclusions regarding the other
objectives of the mission are reported in a separate aide-memoire.
2.    The mission submitted a draft ICR to the authorities, and thanked them for their
contribution to the ICR which had been sent to the Bank in April 1995. The Borrower's
contribution was submitted after preliminary discussions had been held in Bissau, during
an earlier mission in February 1995, to coordinate the Borrower's input.
3.    The draft ICR, after describing the background to SAC II, argues that SAC II's
objectives, although relevant for the country, had the weakness of being too optimistic and
ambitious. This contributed to the substantial fulfillment of these objectives but later than
first expected. As for the major factors which affected the implementation of the agreed
program, the report identifies them as (i) the wavering Borrower commitment, until the
end of 1992, to the stabilization program policies, (ii) the political transition to a
multiparty system leading up to the elections in July 1994, and (iii) the ambitious design of
the program. After evaluating the sustainability of the results achieved under SAC II, the
report considers that the performance of the Bank and the Borrower were satisfactory.
The results achieved under SAC II were considered to be satisfactory also, despite the fact
that large imbalances still prevail in the economy of Guinea-Bissau. According to the draft
ICR, these imbalances point to the need for an eventual adjustment loan to address
reforms which would ensure the strengthening of domestic resource mobilization, the
improvement of public expenditure management, and the promotion of human resource
- 23 -



development. The ICR concludes by summarizing some of the most important lessons that
can be extracted from the implementation of SAC II.
4.    On May 30, 1995, a meeting was held to discuss the draft ICR. The meeting was
chaired by the Minister of Finance, Rui Dia de Sousa, and, besides the World Bank
mission, was attended by the Governor of the Central Bank, Luis Candido Ribeiro, the
Secretary of the State for the Treasury, Francisco Correia Jr., the Secretary of Planning,
Ibrahima Dieme, and approximately 15 senior officials from the Ministry of Finance, the
Central Bank, and the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation who had been
involved in SAC II's implementation.
5.    The following are the Government's comments on the draft ICR:
*  Evaluation of Objectives: although agreeing that SAC II had the weakness of being
overly optimistic and too ambitious, the Borrower did not agree with the report's
assessment regarding commitment to adjustment and the negative effect this had had
on the implementation of SAC II. According to the Borrower, proof that this was not
the case can be found in the fact that, at times, to respect the obligations the Borrower
had assumed under SAC II, reforms had been implemented, even though this
contravened existing legislation, simply because it would have taken too long to
revoke the law and pass a new one;
*  Achievement of the Program Objectives: SAC II played an active role in supporting
the Government's reform program, implemented during 1989-94. The Borrower
agrees with the report's view that the objectives of the credit were substantially met,
as shown by the progress achieved in the areas of stabilization and structural reforms;
.  Major Factors Affecting the Program:  The Borrower felt that the report over-
emphasizes commitment as an important factor during SAC II implementation.
According to the authorities, although macroeconomic performance was uneven until
late 1992, nevertheless, it was during this period that they proceeded with important
structural reformns (e.g., banking system reform, price and trade reform, and exchange
rate policies). In addition, the Borrower felt that the report does not seem to
recognize properly the Government's efforts in the progress achieved since late 1992,
on both the stabilization and structural reform front. (An example of this can be seen
in para. 44.);
*  Bank Performance: in this area the Borrower agreed with the report's assessment that
the World Bank's performance was satisfactory. This conviction results both from the
support received during the implementation of the credit, as well as from the
understanding shown on the part of the Bank, as evidenced by its granting of three
extensions of the Credit closing date. Moreover, the Borrower felt that the discussion
of the draft ICR also served as a useful and stimulating exercise that will certainly
contribute to deepen the consensus about how to develop future Bank support to the
country;
- 24 -



Borrower Performance: The Borrower felt in evaluating Guinea-Bissau's performance
during the implementation of SAC II, it seemed at times that performance standards
requirements appear to vary from country to country. The Borrower got the
impression that even though it appeared that the performance of other countries in the
region had been less than satisfactory, these countries continued to benefit from
substantial external support. Additionally, the authorities expressed the opinion that it
seems that when a country moves quickly to implement certain reforms, it is penalized.
This feeling results from the evidence that what is currently considered as a big step
forward in some countries, constitutes only partial reforms compared to Guinea-
Bissau's progress in the same areas; examples of this were the unification of the
exchange rate, the elimination of price subsidies (including for primary foodstuffs), and
the liberalization of trade. The authorities also mentioned that it would be useful in the
disbursement section of the report to summarize the use of SAC II funds by type of
imports;
Assessment of Outcome: although there was agreement that the results achieved were
satisfactory, when the report analyzes the sustainability of these results it does not
appear to take into account the extremely fragile initial base from which the reforms
were launched.   The authorities agree that, although there are still large
macroeconomic imbalances in the country's economy, it is important to put things into
perspective and refer to progress made in reducing these disequilibria over the
program period, and especially since late 1992;
* Future Operation: the Government considers that the current documentation process
required to justify SAC disbursements does not take into account the progress made in
the institutionalization of a market economy and that this contributed to the slow
disbursement of SAC II funds, particularly in its final phase. In the event that a future
balance of payments operation would be negotiated, the Government feels that it
would be important to take into account the current features of the country's economy
-- the exchange rate is unified, prices are liberalized, trade is liberalized, the
commercial banks are privately-owned, and the informal sector plays an important role
in the economy. Moreover, the share of debt service within the Government's budget
is very high, expenditures to scale down the size of the civil service and to streamline
the military and para-military forces are high, and costs associated with maintenance of
economic and social infrastructures to the improve basic education and health services
cannot be financed by domestic resources in the short and medium term. In this
context, the authorities suggest that in an eventual future operation external resources
should be placed in the Central Bank which would sell them through the commercial
banks, and the counterparts would be deposited in the Treasury's accounts to finance
budgetary outlays.  These counterpart funds could be used according to criteria
previously agreed to with the Bank and, if necessary, their use could be subject to
audits. The Borrower felt that counterpart funds should no longer be frozen, and the
Government should be responsible for using them within the framework of the fiscal
and monetary policy objectives annually agreed with the World Bank and the IMF; and
- 25 -



* Key Lessons Learned: in this section of the ICR, the authorities welcomed the
references to the need to find a sustainable solution to the extemal debt problem, given
that without one the gains from adjustment could be jeopardized.
6.    The World Bank mission informed the Government that Part I of the ICR would
reflect the Bank's opinion on SAC II. Thus, the mission would review the Borrower's
comments on this section and consider whatever revisions that were appropriate. At the
review meeting, the mission was able to clarify the various points made in the ICR and
particularly emphasized the following:
*  the ICR does not assess developments in Guinea-Bissau negatively during the
implementation of SAC II. This is evident given the conclusion that, although later
than expected, the objectives of SAC II were substantially achieved. However, since it
is the objective of this type of report to summarize the lessons learned in order to
improve future project design and the cooperation between the Bank and its clients, it
is important to identify the causes of the implementation difficulties which had been
encountered during SAC II;
*  the emphasis of the report on the importance of the Borrower's commitment resulted
from this factor having played an important role during SAC II implementation. In
fact, in the Bank's opinion, the wavering Borrower commitment was the major factor
behind the significant slippages in the fiscal and monetary benchmarks agreed for end-
1989 and 1991, and most of 1992. The importance of commitment is shown by the
significant progress made on the stabilization front from the end of 1992, which was
only possible because of the effective commitment of the Government; and
*  the share of World Bank resources allocated to adjustment lending is coming down as
it is thought that these kind of operations should not constitute the focus for Bank
activity. Nevertheless, taking into account that some member countries will continue
to require this type of assistance for some time to come, a working group has been set
up to analyze how to improve the effectiveness of this type of lending.
7.    In terms of an operational plan for the future, both the Bank and the Government
consider that the PFP for 1994-1997 spells out the main development objectives and
priorities for the next few years.
8.    The World Bank mission expressed its appreciation for the time given by the
Government to evaluate SAC II. Moreover the mission expressed its appreciation for the
attention given to the review of the draft ICR, which was reflected in the quality of the
comments and the active participation of the Government in the discussions. The mission
expressed the opinion that the joint preparation and evaluation of the ICR is an example of
the type of collaboration the Bank would like to receive in the preparation of the country
assistance strategy (CAS) which is to be submitted to the Bank's Board during FY96.
-26 -



9.    The rnission confirmed that the last disbursement of SAC II took place on May 12,
1995, for a value of US$119,371. Thus, the total amount of SAC II disbursements
reached the equivalent of US$24,318,897.43. The last audit of SAC II will take place
shortly.
Bissau, June 6, 1995.
Marcelo Andrade
Economist
World Bank
- 27 -



Appendix B
Borrower's Assessment of the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2019-GUB)
SUMMARY OF PORTUGUESE VERSION
Background
1.    The World Bank, in its role as promoter of economic and social progress in developing
countries, has supported Guinea-Bissau in pursuit of its economic and financial objectives. After
its first Structural Adjustment Credit, SAC I, was implemented during 1987-1989, internal
disequilibria led the Government of Guinea-Bissau to negotiate a Second Structural Adjustment
Credit, SAC II, with IDA, along with the collaboration of the IMF
2.    SAC II, as compared to SAC 1, had the objectives of stabilizing the economy, with a view
to creating the foundations for sustainable economic development in Guinea-Bissau.  And,
because of the country's balance of payments difficulties, the credit contributed to reduce the size
of this deficit and allow the Government to import primary goods which are of great importance
to a country in the process of structural adjustment.
3.    SAC II was signed on June 29, 1989 for the amount of SDR18 million, and was disbursed
in three tranches. The credit financed SDR17 million of goods, and SDR1 million for consulting
and other services. The credit was also cofinanced by the Netherlands in the amount of GIO
million.
Achievement of SAC II Objectives
4.    The objectives of the project were substantially met. There was progress in the monetary
and exchange rate sectors, as shown by the deceleration of inflation, the decrease in the size of the
current account deficit, and the unification of the exchange market (now the differential between
the official and parallel rates is less than 2%), along with other structural advances.
Project Implementation
5.    SAC II was important in that it supported the liberalization of the economy and increased
the amount of external resources available for imports. The reforms included in SAC II led to
greater supply in the market, an increase in fiscal revenues, dinamization of the private sector, and
a general growth of the economy. Nevertheless, slippages in macroeconomic policies led to a two
and a half year suspension of the third tranche, which was finally released in June of 1993.
- 28 -



6.    On the other hand, the disbursement of the final tranche has faced a major obstacle: most
of retail trade in Guinea-Bissau is undertaken by the informal sector which does not use the
banking sector for its commercial operations. This fact combined with the restrictive monetary
policy being carried out by the Government has led to a slow utilization of SAC II and the
Netherlands' funds.
Experience Gained
7.    Beyond the experience we gained through day-to-day implementation of activities
included in SAC II, collaboration with IDA missions, communication on technical matters with
staff in the Washington headquarters, we also had the opportunity to participate in various
seminars and conferences sponsored by the World Bank, in particular with regard to disbursement
practices.
8.    These activities allowed us to gain greater technical and theoretical knowledge which will
serve us
9.    well in future projects with the World Bank and other extemal donors. On the other hand,
the technical assistance given to us through the Second Technical Assistance Project, TA II, was
also very important during SAC II implementation. The technical assistance was sorely needed to
compensate for the lack of local technical staff and to ensure that continuity would exist even
once resident advisors would leave the country. Thus the transfer of technology from such
advisors to the existing staff was critical.
10.   In terms of disbursement, it was found that the route the Government had to take to
receive SAC II funds was extremely complex and required detailed import documentation.
Because most economic agents avoid bureaucracy of any sort and prefer to undertake importation
without going through regular banking channels, it was very difficult for the Government to
collect enough documentation to justify disbursement of the entire third tranche. Most of the
resources were disbursed to finance consumer goods (57%) and oil supplies (32%). Regarding
counterpart funds, it seems that in future operations it is necessary to consider the possibility of
their use, especially for investment in critical sectors or debt service payment.
Borrower Performance
11.   The Borrower's main responsibility is to ensure that the project's resources are utilized
exclusively for the achievement of project objectives. Additionally, its responsibilities include
maintaining proper accounts such that annual independent audits can be conducted, with
agreement from the World Bank. In this respect, the Borrower fulfilled its roles.
-29-



IDA Performance
12.   The Government sees the World Bank's three major functions as follows: to (a) offer
technical assistance to countries with structural adjustment programs; (b) support economic and
social sectors, particularly agriculture, education, health, etc.; and (c) contribute to the
identification, preparation, appraisal, approval, and supervision of projects under implementation.
13.   The support given to Guinea-Bissau from IDA through SAC II was very satisfactory, in
particular in terms of normal disbursement operations, particularly the disbursements to the
Special Account.  Some bottlenecks were encountered, however, with certain withdrawal
requests submitted, and with the flow of audit information and documentation. It is hoped that
the flow of information will improve in the future.
Conclusions
14.   Taking into account that, even after implementation of SAC I and SAC II Guinea-Bissau's
economy continues to be weak, with large imbalances still persisting in the economy, the
Government feels that the adjustment process will need to be continued with the support of
development agencies.  In this context, in 1995, the Government agreed on an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility with the IMF to undergo further adjustment during the period
1994-1997, and negotiated a debt rescheduling with the Paris Club. The positive results of our
interaction with IDA, the IMF, and the Paris Club leave us optimistic as to the possible successful
implementation of the adjustment measures agreed to.
Bissau, April 1995
- 30 -



Appendix C
MAP OF GUINEA-BISSAU
- 31 -



IBRD 24520
SENEGAL
_ HEU                                              --'GABXo&-
t5-      :    s      o    C.*csX }              n             =                                                        /~~~~~~~~~~.-
This nsap  has kee n  prepared                         ..       -_'                                                            6       ur        k%                           >        \      Cnoro 
exclusirnly ior the  connrenienne                   u>tLV _ nV- u~ ;Cd,n                                            ,                                                                                                                               E J/J-c                               GUINEA-BISS AUIclAII
intrnal us.r of The Word8Bank        r      h     tlh AzHrotz ius   ,...... rc7ra  P  ......MJI   SA 
ond  ... d6nrto  s__   .b _    c     iJF/ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
on this nap do not reply, on the                                        -I:       tuo-uad                                                  erw          Cdgt     
part oh TheWorld Boa Group, B              J A      A s  U                                                                    d a,,p 
an.,~y dart on, the  ea .uCb    a
such boond aries .     o              u-s,                         dO                                                                                                                                               BA     TAhAeNCA  LOT C E ATERS       IS         AU R.POW S
,,,te-1 use           UNO Th.W  (,sdBus..k                                                               _ uuq/                                                                     PAVED ROADS                        o    SELECTED TOWNS
MAUGITANA -T    UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                   G     REGION CARTALS
A EDE ODMNSTNATTONAE CNITAS
SENEGAL                                                       -aEZn<roTT                                      i                                                                                                                            u 1  ;-/   RRue:^   REGION 90UNDAtlES
GAL    TH-            >             tdALI                                                                                                          ,_- eiOI>Cm nsnlINTERNATiONAL ROUNDAAIRS
..d   th.   b-d-es   sh-                                         Ab~~~~~~~~~~,-usu
GUINA-         1                                                  A R C H I P E L A 0  O 
BISSAU   r        GUINEA                                                                                                                                    7
LEONE      >t      ,CIbTIER                                                                                                                                                                     ra-u
L13ERRIA _(
MARCH 1993









:i ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ;: ii -- .1           ; . 
=:-',, -'.  .':  1



