Document of
The World Bank
t,                               FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Rpowt No. P-4980-GU
REPORT AND IRECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ATIONAL DEVELOPM   ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMEN CREDIT
OF SDR 18.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINA-BISSAU
FOR PHASE TWO OF ITS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
APRIL 25, 1989
This documt has a resricted disbton and may be used by recipeno only in the performance of
tir offcial duties Its contents may not otewise be disclosed withowt World Bank authorifion



)\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Guinea-Bissau Peso (GP)
Annual Average
Exchange Rate: 1986    1987 - 1988
US$1.00 - GP    205      561   1118
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF       African Development Fund
ADP       Armazens do Povo
AfDB      African Development Bank
BNG       Banco Nacional da Guind-Bissau
DESECO    DirecVao de Servi9os de Desenvolvimento Econdmico
EAGB      Electricidade. e Aguas da Guin6-Bissau
EEC       European Economic Community
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IDA       International Development Association
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IRP       Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
SAF       Structural Adjustment Facility of IMF
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP       Structural Adjustment Program
SIRP      Social and Infrastructure Relief Project
SPPF      Special Project Preparation Facility
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



OR OFFICIAL uS ony
EPUBLIC oF GUTNE-BXSSAU
SECOND STRVCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMAY  . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . ..       i
PART I - THE ECONOMY. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .      1
B. Recent Economic Developments     . . . . . . . .      2
PART II- PROPOSED CREDT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...         5
A. Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5.
B. Experience with SAC I (1987-88)  . . . . . . . .      5
C.  Program to Be Supported by SAC II (1989-91)  . .     6
D.  Growth Prospects and Financial Needs of the Program  13
E.  Social 2mpact    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
P. Benefits and Risks. . ..  .... .      .    *.   . .  16
G. Credit Admlnistration  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
H. Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions  . . .     17
PART III-  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS . . . . . ...  . . . . . .  .     19
PART IV -ROLE OF THE DF AND OTHER DONORS  . . ....  . . . .        20
PART V -RECOMMENDATION    .  .     ..  . .                         21
ANNEXES
I. Social Indicator Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
II. Balance of Payments and Hacroeconomic Indicators   . . . .    24
III. Supplementary Credit Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
rV. Government's Letter of Development Policy  . . . . . . . .    29
V. Matrix of Policy Actions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
VI. Status of Bank Group Operations  . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   51
VII. Hap IBRD 15779R-GUB
This document has a rstcted distibutinand may be us by rcipsen     in the peoman 
of their offic dutie Its contents may not otenwse be discld witht Word Bank autdoratlwa



-1iL-
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM,SUNHARY
Borrowert        Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Amounts          SDR 18.0 million (US$23.4 million equivalent)
Termss           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancins    The Netherlands:  DF1O million (US$4.8 million
equivalent).
United States Agency for International Development
(USAID)t US$4.5 million.
African Development Fund: 10.0 million UOAs (US$12.0
million equivalent).
The IMF is expected to contribute SDR 3.3 million (US$4.3
million equivalent) under the second and third annual SAF.
Financing package is expected to total approximately
US$50 million.
Project
Descrigtion:    The proposed IDA credit would support the second phase of
the government's structural adjustment prtgram (SAP), and
facilitate the continued expansion of economic activity
while reforms are being implemented. These reforms,
started in 1983 under the government's economic recovery
program, and continued under phase one of the SAP (1987-
1988), were supported by previous IDA credits.
Under the second phase of the SAP (1989-1991), the
government will focus on the following policy agenda:
(a) maintaining a stable macro-economic environment,
including a flexible exchange rate system and strict
monetary and fiscal discipline; (b) recrientating public
investments towards removing infrastructure and
institutional bottlenecks to growth, and meeting basic
needs, and away from directly productive investments;
(c) expanding the trade and price liberalization started
In 1983 to encourage private investment and to foster
greater economic growth, particularly in agriculture,
forestry and fisheries; (d) institutional reforms, to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public
sector, particularly public enterprises; (e) policies and
programs to alleviate some of the main social costs of the
adjustment program; and (f) reduction of the very high
external debt burden.



- it -
Estimated
Disbursementst  The credit will be disbursed in three tranches of
SDR 8.0 million, SDR 5.0 million and SDR 5.0 million. The
first tranche will be available for disbursement upon
effectiveness and the second and third tranches following
performance reviews at end-1989 and end-1990. The
estimated period of disbursements is July 1989 to July
1991. Retroactive financing has been included up to 20
percent of the credit, for eligible goods and services to
be procured up to four months prior to credit signing.
Benefits and
Risks:           The second phase of the adjustment program is expected to
improve the growth prospects of the economy by continuing
and deepening the stabilization measures, by providing
more assured availability and efficient allocation of
foreign exchange for vital inputs, and by concentrating
public investments on areas in which the private sector
has no comparative advantage. There is expected to be a
further improvement in the incentives structure, with the
removal of most remaining trade and price controls. The
program is also expected to help improve the climate for
productive private investment, by strengthening and
simplifying the investment code.
The main risks are thats (a) inadequate administrative
capacity may prevent the government from implementing the
program on schedule; (b) due to price and trade
liberalization and reductions in civil service numbers,
opposition to the program may grow, especially in urban
areas; and (c) the debt overhang or more adverse movements
in the terms of trade than projected will continue to
overshadow the economic gains.
To minimize the first of these risks, the program has been
designed to improve government's efficiency, focussing ons
tax and budget administration, the public investment
program, public sector reform, particularly reform of the
public enterprise sector and external debt management.
Technical assistance for many of these activities is
already in place, and working well. To counter the second
risk, the government has prepared a related Social and
Infrastructure Relief Project, and IDA has been asked to
contribute to its financing. Finally, the risks presented
by the debt overhang and adverse terms of trade are being
addressed to the extent possible by putting in place an
aid group meeting for Guinea-Bissau focussed on debt
reduction, to be co-hosted by IDA and UNDP, and by efforts
to encourage diversified economic growth in Guinea-Bissau.
Mat: IBRD 15779R
There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 18.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU FOR PHASE TWO OF ITS
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR18.0 million (US$23.4 million equivalent), on standard IDA
terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau to support
phase twvo of the government's structural adjustment program for the period
1989-1991. Financing would also be provided by the Netherlands and USAID
in amounts of US$4.8 million equivalent and US$4.5 million respectively.
Additional financing would be provided by the African Development Fund of
US$12.0 million equivalent. The IMF is expected to pr-vide US$4.3 million
equivalent, representing the second and third annual contributions under
its Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) covering the period 1987-1990.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        Report No. 6361-GUB, 'Guinea-Bissau:  A Prescription for
Comprehensive Adjustment," distributed to the Executive Directors in April
1987, presents an analysis of the country's economic performance and the
essential elements of a comprehensive structural adjustment strategy for
Guinea-Bissau. The following section updates the economic situation and
describes Guinea-Bissau's performance under the first structural adjustment
program. Economic data appear in annexes I and II.
A. Background
3.        Guinea-Bissau is a small country on the West African coast with
about 950,000 inhabitants. With an estimated 1988 per capita income of
about US$160, the country is among the poorest in the world. The economy
is characterized by a large rural sector, producing primarily for self-
consumption. Partly for this reason, measurements of economic activity are
subject to an unusual degree of uacertainty. Agriculture, fisheries and
forestry account for about 90 percent of employment and an estimated
50 percent of GDP. Marketed output is largely confined to export crops,
primarily cashews, groundnuts, and palm kernels; in 1987 and 1988 cashews
accounted for almost 70 percent of total exports. Rice is the main food
crop. In the 1950s Guinea-Bissau was a net exporter of rice (around 40,000
tons annually); however, since 1962 the country has relied on imports to
supplement domestic production.
4.        After independence in 1974, Guinea-Bissau faced the task of
rebuilding its economy. The protracted liberation war had dislocated one-
fifth of the population, destroyed an important part of the economic
infrastructure, and reduced output of the main crops by over one-third. An
ambitious public investment program financed mainly by external borrowing
was implemented, focussing on the manufacturing sector but neglecting
agriculture. Inappropriate pricing policies, an increasingly overvalued



2-
exchange rate, and an inefficient marketing system prevented recovery of
agricultural production, depressed official exports, and stimulated the
parallel market. Severe fiscal imbalances, resulting from a rapid rise in
government expenditures and limited growth in revenues, were increasingly
financed by central bank credit, thereby fueling inflation. In the period
1980-82, the external situation was aggravated by drought and depressed
world market prices for the country's main exports. The balance of
payments deteriorated rapidly, exacerbated by rapidly increasing external
debt service payments, and external arrears accumulated.
5.        The Government af Guinea-Bissau embarked on an economic recovery
program, starting in 10.3, designed to correct the inappropriate policies
of the post-independence decade. The program entailed a devaluation of the
currency, increases in producer prices, and steps to liberalize domestic
trade. This program was supported by two Reconstruction Import Credits
from IDA and a first credit tranche from the IMF. But the adjustment
process lost momentum in 1985 due to a sharp deterioration in the prices of
the country's major exports, delays in implementation of institutional
reforms, insufficient production incentives, and inappropriate fiscal and
monetary controls.
6.        In 1987, the government embarked upon renewed efforts at
structural adjustment. The first phase of the structural adjustment
program (1987-88) focussed on two issues: (a) how to restore the
competitiveness of exports and develop import substitutes; and (b) how to
reduce the direct role of government in the economy. Under the program,
the government adopted a flexible exchange rate system with a view to
maintain a realistic value for the Guinean peso, introduced more
restrictive monetary and fiscal targets, and broadened and reinforced the
trade and price liberalization measures introduced in 1983. IDA and IMF
supported the program as did the Netherlands, Switzerland, the Saudi Fund,
ADF, and IFAD.
B. Recent Economic Developments
7.        Overview.  The economy has responded well to the program.  Led
by a favorable supply response to the stabilization and liberalization
measures, GDP grew by between 4 and 6 percent per year in 1987 and 1988.
This was due to significant increases in rice, cashew, and palm kernel
production, reflecting increases from both traditional small farmers and
the commercial farmers Oponteiros'. Export growth has been impressive,
averaging over 20 percent per year in real terms. Real per capita
consumption also grew substantially, with private per capita consumption
growing by over one percent per year in 1987 and 1988. Government kept
control over the fiscal and monetary situation in 1987, with the current
budget deficit declining markedly compared to previous years, and the
public investment program being reoriented away from commercial projects.
However in 1988, there were slippages in meeting the monetary targets, due
in part to institutional weaknesses and lack of timely data necessary to
manage properly the budget and the credit program. 'this has put pressure
on prices and the exchange rate and highlighted the need for a more
reliable data tracking system under the program, particularly with regard
to credit.



-3-
8.        Fiscal volicw.  The current fiscal deficit was reduced by about
two-thirds in real terms in 1987, to approximately 3 percent of GDP. As
scheduled, civil service numbers were cut by about 5 percent, from 16,600
to 15,900. During 1988, the current fiscal deficit is estimated to have
deteriorated somewhat compared to 1987, mainly due to higher than
programmed expenditures on goods and services. In addition, the civil
service reduction pr.)gram slowed somewhat due to the limited availability
of funds for redundancy payments and government concerns about availability
of alternative employment opportunities. Consequently, the number of civil
servants was reduced by a little over 6 percent, compared to the 10 percent
programmed. Public investment is estimated to have recovered somewhat in
1988, after successive cutbacks in 1986 and 1987, as government sought to
improve the delivery of essential public services in health, education and
shelter, as well as to remuve infrastructure bottlenecks. Public
consumption declined by 10 percent in 1987, and increased slightly in 1988.
9.        MonetarE policy.  During 1987-88 there was a substantial
increase in domestic liquidity fueled by a greater than programmed credit
expansion. Broad money increased by over 70 percent in both 1987 and 1988.
During 1987 credit developments were dominated by the financial
requirements of the public sector and the need to finance the cashew crop
campaign.  In 1988, credit to public enterprises and term credit to the
private sector were the main causes of growth in credit. To help limat the
expansion of credit, the government has recently improved the availability
of information on credit and money supply and in October 1988 the
government established a credit committee with a view to improving credit
control.  Interest rates were raised in May 1987 to 21-30 percent for
deposits and 25-38 percent for lending, from previous levels of 5-16
percent. The new interest rate structure was based on the assumption that
the underlying inflation rate would decelerate to about 25 percent by year
end. In the event, as inflation rates have exceeded projected levels,
interest rates have remained negative in real terms.
10.       Exchange rate Policy.  During 1987-88 the government implemented
a flexible exchange rate policy aimed at reducing the divergence between
the official and parallel exchange rates. Through a steady depreciation,
the official exchange rate was brought broadly in line with its market
value. This resulted in the increased profitability of the trade sector,
the diversion of exports from parallel to official channels and the
reduction of rent-seeking activities. Between May 1987 and end-1968, the
Guinean Peso (PG) was devalued by over 400 percent in domestic currency
terms, with the aim of closing the gap between the official and parallel
market exchanges rates. The gap, which stood at three-to-one at the
beginning of the program, has been much less since then, between 5 to
30 percent, depending on the pace of credit expansion and the timing of the
arrival of import shipments, which exerted strong and often erratic
pressure on the parallel and the official exchange rates. The real
official exchange rate is estimated to have depreciated by some 50 percent
between end-1986 and end-1988.



- 4 -
11.       Prices and wates. While inflation remains a serious problem,
some modest progress has been made. Although a reliable price index is not
available, food prices are estimated to have increased by about 120 percent
in 1986, 110 percent in 1987, and 80 percent in 1988. Price behavior
reflected demand pressures generated by excess domestic liquidity. As
indicated above, almost all prices are freely determined, and the prices of
controlled goods (rice and petroleum) have been adjusted in line with
changes in the official exchange rate.
12.       The economy of Guinea-Bissau is based on small agricultural
holders that hire little or no external labor. Hired labor is compensated
mostly in-kind and therefore monetary wages are not an important variable
in agricultural production. Wage compensation is largely confined to the
formal urban sector, dominated by the central government and public
enterprises. Wages in the public sector have lagged behind inflation, with
real wages declining by over 50 percent between 1986 and 1988.
13.       External debt. Total debt outqt%.ading at end-1988, including
arrears, is estimated at US$420 million, some 16 times exports of goods and
non-factor services. About 90 percent of this debt is medium and long
term. Arre&s of US$48 million account for the remainder, including short-
term arrears of the National Bank, estimated at US$21 million.
Multilateral creditors hold less than half the total debt, with the rest
owed mainly to bilateral creditors and a relatively small amount to
financial institutions and suppliers.
14.       Scheduled debt service in 1987 and 1988 approached 100 percent
of exports. As Guinea-Bissau could not meet these obligations, the
government sought debt rescheduling and debt forgiveness. Canada and the
Netherlands cancelled their outstanding debt and Portugal and Libya
converted part of their debt to domestic currency. In October 1987, the
Paris Club creditors agreed tr, reschedule principal on eligible debt
falling due during the period July 1, 1987 through December 31, 1988, and
all payment arrears accumulated through June 30, 1987. In 1988, bilateral
negotiations with France, Brazil, and Switzerland were concluded. However,
due to the heavy debt service burden and a shortfall in export receipts,
new arrears of about US$8 million were accumulated in 1988.
15.       At the start of the adjustment program, the government adopted a
policy prohibiting the contracting or guaranteeing of new loans with a
grant element of less than 50 percent, except for normal trade credits and
refinancing of existing debt. In addition, the public sector is permitted
to contract new loans only after a decision of the Council of Ministers,
based on the advice of Ministries of Planning and Finance. The government
has coordinated management of medium- and long-term debt in the Ministry of
Finance's Debt Management Unit. The unit is responsible for all matters
pertaining to external debt, including debt negotiations and debt
reporting, and technical assistance already in place to assist the
government in this is expected to be strengthened with help from UNDP.
Despite progress to date, the government needs to make further improvements
to the debt management.



-5-
16.       Balance of payments.  The current account deficit including
official grants improved from US$23 million in 1986 to USS13 million in
1987, deteriorating again to US$29 million in 1988. Performance in 1987
reflected a number of exceptional factors, including strong growth in
agricultural exports, a decline in official imports, and a temporary
improvement in the terms of trade. Export earnings increased by 33
percent, led by a 70 percent increase in the volume of cashew exports and a
20 percent increase in their unit price. The drop in merchandise imports
in 1987 was mainly due to lower volumes, reflecting in part delays in
foreign credits disbursements and unfamiliarity with procurement
procedures. The current account deficit vas more than compensated by a
capital account surplus of US$19 million, due to sharp increases ia
concessional loan disbursements and debt rescheduling.
17.       The deterioration in the current account deficit in 1988 was
largely due to a sharp reversal of the terms of trade. Although
merchandise exports grew by 16 percent in volume terms, the international
price of cashews, fell by 18 percent over 1987, resulting in only a 4
percent increase in export values. The increased availability of foreign
assistance allowed a recovery of import levels. Thus, the value of imports
increased by 30 percent, re.:lecting an increase of 18 percent in volume and
12 percent in unit values, driven mainly by a 30 percent increase in the
price of rice. The current account deficit was again covered by
concessional loans with a capital account surplus of US$18 million and the
accumulation of arrears.
PART II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Background
18.       The thrust of the adjustment program has been a fundamental
reorientation of the economy towards the private sector away from the
public sector. This is most clearly reflected in the reduction in civil
service employment and the pursuit of a flexible exchange rate policy,
coupled with increased fiscal and monetary discipline. This has sharply
redistributed income from urban public sector -.mployees to rural producers
of cashews, rice, and other traded goods. The revitalization of the
private sector that has been so evident over the past two years should
enable Guinea-Bissau to achieve per capita consumption increases exceeding
1 percent per annum, even as aid dependency declines. The critical issue
is thus to support and ensure the program's sustainability.
B. Experience with SAC I (1987-88)
19.       The first phase of the government's structural adjustment
program (1987-88) was supported by IDA and Special African Facility Credits
of US$15.0 million equivalent, which were approved by the Board in May
1987, along with US$31.7 million equivalent in cofinancing. The credits
focussed on exchange rate, monetary, and fiscal policies including
restructuring of the public investment program, decontrol of agricultural
prices, simplification of tariffs and customs procedures, and



-6-
liberalization of commercial practices. The credits were released in two
tranches, the first upon effectiveness in June 1987, and the second,
following a successful mid-term review of progress, in April 1988. The
credits are fully committed, but some US$1.02 million remains undisbursed.
20.       Program implementation was, on the whole, satisfactory, and as
outlined in Part I, the effects on the real economy have been quite
impressive despite the deterioration in the terms of trade. However,
slippages in monetary and fiscal policy discipline in mid-1988 coupled with
a widening gap between the parallel and official exchange rates and a less
than programmed reduction in the fiscal deficit threaten to destabilize the
economy and reverse some of the program's gains. While a more accelerated
exchange rate depreci&tion has effectively narrowed the gap with the
parallel market rate, the slippage has highlighted the need to maintain
monetary as well as fiscal discipline and to buttress existing economic
policy management and institutions.
C. Program to Be SuoN,rted by SAC II (1989-1991)
21.       The reform agenda for the second phase of the structural
adjustment program focuses on the need to stabilize the monetized economy.
Budget administration and the provision of credit, particularly to public
enterprises and the private sector, is not yet sufficiently well managed,
with a lack of up-to-date and reliable information on the level and
composition of credit and weak credit administration. This is contributing
to slippage on the program's fiscal and monetary targets which, in turn, is
causing inflationary and exchange rate pressures. The public sector also
requires reform -- notably in the day-to-day coordination and execution of
economic policy and in the public enterprise sector, where industrial
output has stagnated. Despite important supply-side gains, private
investment has yet to respond, reflecting uncertainty about the
continuation of the new policy framework. Meanwhile, the huge debt
overhang implies a debt service burden that could absorb all the gains from
adjustment, and thus is a potentially inhibiting factor in determining the
intensity with which adjustment is pursued.
22.       Mindful of these problems, the government, with the help of IDA
and the IMF, has put together a package of measures designed to continue
and ensure the sustainability of the new policy orientation. As
institutional weakness are clearly a key constraint, the program has an
important technical assistance component. The following objectives are
being supported by the proposed credits (a) greater macroeconomic
stability; (b) more diversified economic growth; (c) a changing role for
government from involvement in productive activities to the provision of
essential public services; and (d) a reduction in the external debt burden
to manageable proportions. The specific policy actions are outlined below.
1.   Stabilization Policies
23.       The government intends to continue its stabilization policies,
aimed at implementing a consistent exchange rate, monetary and fiscal
policy framework to secure lower rates of inflation. Monetary and fiscal
targets have been set for 1989, and agreed with IDA and the IMF in the



-7-
context of its second annual SAF negotiations. These are consistent with a
reduction in the average differential between domestic and international
inflation to less than 20 percentage points by 1990. Ongoing technical
assistance from the IMF, IDA, and UNDP should help government in achieving
its targets.
24.       Exchange rate policy.  Operationally, the government's
undertaking to pursue a flexible exchange rate policy is to be monitored in
terms of the spread between the official and parallel market rates, which
is to be kept within 20 percent. Under the program, BNG also intends to
improve management of its foreign exchange cash flow. A quarterly foreign
exchange budget is to be prepared, which is to be agreed aunually and
implemented with the help of technical assistance from the IMP already in
place.
25.       Monetary nolicy.  Credit targets for 1989 envisage a 23 percent
monetary expansion. Net domestic credit is to remain constant, reflecting
a contraction in net credit to government by 19 percent of begimning money
stock, and an equivalent expansion of credit to the non-government sector.
Due to recent slippages in meeting agreed credit targets, achievement of
end-June benchmarks would be expected before effectiveness. End-June
benchmarks envision a 3.6 percent reduction in net domestic assets in terms
of initial money stock, and a 10 percent reduction in net credit to
government. These targets are expected to contain inflation to about 40
percent in 1989 and permit the expansion of investment for productive
purposes. Due to the availability of counterpart funds from the balance of
payments grants and credits, there is expected to be no net recourse to
bank credit by the government during the 1989-91 period, and the
government's outstanding debt to the National Bank is expected to be
liquidated by end-1990. To improve the credit allocation process, the
government will strengthen the credit committee established in October
1988, and monitor the terms and sectoral composition of credit on a monthly
basis. The government's objective is to achieve positive real interest
rates in 1989, and to maintain them throughout the program p6riod.
26.       Fiscal DolicX.  The government intends to maintain tight fiscal
discipline during the second phase of the adjustment program and has
adopted a budget that implies a targeted increase in the current fiscal
surplus excluding intere-; payments, from 2.1 percent of GDP in 1988 to 4.2
percent in 1989. The government intends to continue to trim its workforce
and to use the savings from reductions in civil service numbers to increase
average salaries. Already approved staff reduction targets of 10 percent
in 1989, representing some 1,500 staff, would be implemented flexibly,
taking into account availability of funds from the budget to finance the
redundancy package, and the buoyancy of the labor market to absorb
redundant staff. General improvements in budgeting and expenditure control
have been started, and will be reinforced with the help of technical
advisors already in place. A comprehensive review of the tax system will
be carried out in 1989 with a view to making it simpler, more efficient and
broader-based, and enhancing its incentive effects. Some reforms have
already been introduced into the 1989 fiscal program, including
strengthening tax and customs administration, simplifying the tax system by
removing some taxes and consolidating others, and reducing the cashew tax.



The government intends to implement additional tax and tariff reforms by
the time of the 1990 budget, affecting export taxes, mainly on cashews, and
import, income and sale taxes, including road and consumption taxes on
diesel.
2.  Encouraztnt Private Sector Growth
27.       The government's strategy is to encourage diversified growth of
the private sector along the lines of Guinea-Bissau's comparative
advantage. In addition to maintaining competitiveness for exports and
import substitutes through a market-oriented exchange rate policy, this
meant appropriate trade and pricing policy, adequate infrastructure and
public services, and a simplified regulatory environment for private
investment.
a. Trade and pricing policy
28.       The government intends to continue its program of trade and
price liberalization, with the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Commerce
and Tourism charged with overseeing this liberalization. As one of the
most important steps in this direction, the government in its 1989 budget
eliminated the subsidy on imported rice. The government also issued a
decree in early 1989: (a) expanding the automatic issuance of licenses to
100 percent of commercial imports, excluding petroleum and a short negative
list: (b) abolishing the cereal import monopoly of the state trading firm,
Armazens do Povo; and (c) removing all remaining price controls, except on
rice and petroleum products. Prices for petroleum products are to be
maintained at import parity levels (including transport, distribution
margins and excise taxes) throughout the program period. By end-1989,
price controls on rice would be eliminated, and import bans would be
replaced by excise taxes on luxury items as part of the ongoing tariff
reform. During 1989, the government intends to remove the preferential
treatment accorded the "Lojas Francas*, the duty free shops that deal only
in foreign exchange, in view of the improved availability of imports within
the country.
29.       Including all taxes and handling fees, the overall implicit tax
on cashew exports has been reduced to no more than 40 percent for the 1989
season. The government intends to review this tax regularly with a view to
reducing it to 35 percent in 1990 and 30 percent in 1991, taking into
account expected production levels, international cashew prices and impact
on government's revenues, and these will be conditions of second and third
tranche release, respectively. The intention is to replace this source of
government revenue by sales and income taxes, with technical help from the
DMF and IDA.
b.   Sectoral policies
30.       Agriculture.  Since embarking on the economic reform program in
1983, the gc.7ernment has addressed the most important limiting factor to
agricultural expansion, namely, inappropriate pricing and marketing
policies and the unavailability of imported inputs and incentive goods in
rural areas. Reflecting the fundamental shift in policy, the sector has



registered steady growth during the 1984-88 period. Even so, agricultural
production remains far below potential. The area under cultivation is
estimated at only 30 percent of the total land suitable for rainfed or
irrigated agriculture, representing only 65 percent of the area cultivated
during the 1950s. In the next few years, the incentive effects of the
adjustment program ure expected to continue to be the main engine of
agricultural growth. However, the sector's medium- and long-term
performance will be clearly influenced by the availability of transport
infrastructure, credit, and extension services. Currently, IDA is working
with the government to develop an agricultural sector strategy. Barring
unforeseen events, this sector is expected to grow at about 6 percent per
year over the next 6 years, allowing for strong growth in agricultural
exports and a reduction in imports of food products, particularly rice.
31.       Forestry.  Guinea-Bissau is endowed with extensive forestry
resources which are at present greatly under-exploited. Revenues from this
sector are small, representing less than 10 percent of export revenues in
1988. A review of this sub-sector, including the environmental impact, is
being undertaken currently with help from a Bank-financed SPPF. The policy
with regard to this sector will emphasize the optimal exploitation and
replenishment of forestry resources with a view to increasing export
earnings while preserving the ecological balance.
32.       Fishine.  Fisheries is the most important known natural resource
of the country, and, like forestry, could contribute significantly to the
export revenues of Guinea-Bissau. The total value of the current catch is
estimated at between US$100 and US$130 million, close to the maximum
sustainable yield. However, most fish are caught by foreign fleets. In
1988, total revenues from foreign fishing licenses were estimated at about
US$6 million and from direct exports at US$l million. To stimulate local
production while increasing revenues from foreign fishing, the government
intends tot (a) renegotiate existing fishing licenses with a view to
obtaining more favorable terms; (b) ensure increased local value-added for
foreign-dominated operations through joint-venture arrangements with the
domestic private sector; (c) improve monitoring of licenses and their
catch; (d) improve domestic fishing operations, artisanal fishing and fish
exports; and (e) develop a longer term strategy for the sector based on
expanding domestic involvement in industrial fishing. The government is
preparing an action plan for the fisheries sector, with implementation
scheduled to begin in the second half of 1989, and this is a condition of
second tranche release.
33.       Transport.  The government intends to concentrate on maintenance
and improvement of transport infrastructure rather than competing with
private operators in new areas of transport services. Transport prices
have already been substantially liberalized, and remaining price controls
will be removed during the second phase of the adjustment program. The
government intends to reform transport parastatals in a consistent manner
with its overall public enterprise reform program.



- 10 -
c.   Development of human resources
34.       The social indicators of Guinea-Bissau are unfavorable, even in
comparison with other low-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Life
expectancy at birth is only 39 years, compared to 50 in neighboring
countries, infant mortality is estimated at between 170 and 180 per
thousand, and almost one-third of all children die before the age of five.
The illiteracy rate is estimated at 84 percent and the enrollment rate has
been declining since 1979.
35.       Because of these problems, the government has launched
initiatives in the health and eduction sectors to promote the development
of the country's human rer irces. In the health sector, the government
started a plan to reorgani:e the Ministry of Health in order to improve the
delivery of health services, and health policies focus on primary health
care through low cost technology. In the education sector, the government
has also undertaken the reorganization of the Ministry of Education,
Culture and Sports, and is currently revising the curriculum of primary
education in order to improve its content and relevance, and to increase
the number of places available. Actions in the education sector include
improvements in teacher training programs and the rehabilitation of primary
schools.
d. The public investment program
36.       Capital expenditure will continue to be reoriented, as under
phase I of the program, towards the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, human resource development, and alleviating poverty, and
away from directly productive investments that have commercial potential.
For 1989, the agreed public investment program is US$75 million equivalent,
vith a budgetted execution rate of 80 percent. Agriculture and rural
development, fisheries, forestry and mining represent about 30 percent of
the proposed investment program; infrastructure about 40 percent; Industry
and energy, primarily energy, about 7 percent; the social sectors 23
percent. The levels and composition of public investments is expected to
be agreed annually as a condition of tranche release, and to maintain
macroeconomic equilibria and create the conditions for self-sustained
growth.
37.       The Ministry of Planning has compiled an inventory of ongoing
and proposed projects -- their profiles, sources of financing, and
recurrent budget and debt service implications. Criteria for project
selection continue to be those for which the economic, financi.al, and
technical viability have been demonstrated. The government intends to
strengthen the Ministry of Planning's role in the preparation of the public
investment program, and in monitoring the implementation of ongoing
projects, including a semi-annual review of project implementation. The
government also intends to strengthen the capacity of the planning and
spending ministries in budgeting and expenditure control, project
evaluation, monitoring, and implementation. Technical assistance is being
provided by several donors, including IDA.



- 11 -
e.   Regulatory framework for private investment
38.       Given the country's size and per capita income, the avenues for
profitable investment in industry are limited. Lack of supporting
infrastructure and institutions are further constraining factors. Still,
there is considerable scope for expanding small-scale investment, includiig
private foreign investment, particularly in fisheries and agriculture.
Trade, tourism, and agro-processing, especially cashew and oil palm
processing, also have potential. Mindful of this potential, the government
has embarked on a program to increase private investment -- including
foreign investment. The government's strategy includes an efficient and
stable incentive framework, a revised investment code, more secure land
tenure arrangements, a program of entrepreneurial development, particularly
for small-scale industrialists, and greater efficiency of the couuercial
and development banking system.
39.       By end-1989, the government intends to review,  and if necessary
revise the investment code, in consultation with IDA. The objective is to
ensure that the code is attractive to foreign and domestic investors, to
streamline the administrative framework, and reduce other impediments to
private investment in the country, including exchange controls. UNDP has
been requested to finance this review. The government has also embarked on
a private investment promotion campaign, with the financial assistance of
UNDP. Government is reviewing land tenure arrangements, under project
preparation for the Agriculture Sect,r Project, to allow lease or freehold
title to land, and to encourage its ase for productive purposes. It is
intended to implement the recommendations from these studies in 1990.
40.       The other main element of the private sector promotion agenda
for the 1989-1991 period will be to strengthen commercial and development
banking activities.  By end-1989, following consultations with the IW  and
IDA, the government expects to see at least one commercial bank
established, followed by others, with private sector participation. The
government has already signed an agreement with Portuguese financial
institutions to establish a commercial bank with participation of the
government and private investors. The new bank is expected to start
operations by end-1989. In the interim, the gov-rnment will seek to
improve the operations of the commercial banking, window of the National
Bank, as well as its development banking window, DESECO. There is urgent
need to improve access to credit, particularly rural crop credit and term
credit for productive purposes, to further encourage productive investment.
As the sole source of term lending in Guinea-Bissau, DESECO needs to
improve its project appraisal and supervision, as well as availability of
funds for productive purposes. DESECO is currently operating with a
skeleton project appraisal staff. Assisted by donors, the government is
expected to implement a fairly comprehensive program for reform of term
lending during the program period. During 1989, it expects to concentrate
on improving project appraisal and supervision, with the USAID and possibly
EEC providing funds for on-lending to the private sector.



- 12
3. Public Sector Reform
a.   Public enterorises
41.       The government intends to reform the public enterprise sector,
which currently contributes 9 percent of GDP and is the major industrial
employer. The government has commissioned a study of public enterprises,
the results of which are currently under review. During the second phase
of the adjustment program, the government willt (a) divest, restructure as
appropriate the major public enterprises; (b) eliminate cross debts between
the central government and public enterprises and phase out net transfers
to revenue-earning public enterprises by end-1990; and (c) introduce
institutional and legislative improvements both for management of
individual enterprises and for government oversight and monitoring.
42.       Given the complexities of implementing public enterprise reform,
government is expected to start slowly, with one or two privatizations,
restructuring, and liquidations in 1989. To benefit from this experience
and oversee implementation of the program, a central unit is to be created
by mid-1989 under the new Ministry of Economic Coordination. This unit
will be supported by a resident advisor, with additional help from short-
term experts and studies as needed. This advisor is expected to be funded
by a reorientation or reassignment of resident experts already in-country,
supplemented by financial and technical assistance from the ADF, or IDA
under SAC II. A plan of action and timetable for implementing public
enterprise reform was agreed at negotiations, and satisfactory progress in
implementing this action plan is a condition of third tranche release.
43.       Electricidade e Aauas da Guin4-Bissau (EAGB).  Until now the
ability of the electricity and water company to provide reliable and
efficient electricity generation and water supply at low cost has been
hampered by weak management, a number of poor investment decisions, and
poorly set tariff levels, as well as erratic tariff collections, we bave
reached agreement on the introduction of an internationally recruited
technical partner to help manage EAGB for a period of 3 to 4 years,
starting mid-1989, to ensure that EAGB operates more efficiently and does
not remain a bottleneck to economic development. While generating capacity
no longer presents a problem, there remain significant managerial,
operational and financial issues. While EAGB tariffs currently cover all
operating costs for Bissau, this has been accomplished by an excessive
reliance on cross-subsidies from the large consumers, mainly government,
which do not always pay on time. A plan of action and a timetable to cover
improvements in both EAGB's management and financing has also been put in
place. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of this plan is a
condition of third tranche release.
b.   Civil service reform
44.       During the second phase of the adjustment program, the
government expects to focus on the following: (a) improving its ability to
coordinate and manage the adjustment program; and (b) strengthening the
civil service, through updating pertinent legislation, improved training



- 13 -
and human resource management generally, reducing numbers and streamlining
the civil service structure, particularly the economic ministries.
45.       Currently, the National Commission for Economic Coordination and
Control, under the President, is the apex body overseeing the adjustment
program. To make the Commission more effective, a "primus inter paresg has
been appointed as Minister of State for Economic Coordination to
orchestrate economic policy. The technical secretariat for the Commission
is being strengthened with technical assistance and support facilities to
better fulfill its task, and is expected to provide monthly "flash*
reports, as well as quarterly progress reports, on economic performance
under the adjustment program. Specific measures are underway to strengthen
data collection and analysis of the main macro variables within Ministry of
Finance, National Bank and Ministry of Planning.
46.       The Ministry of Civil Service and Labor, with responsibility for
the major elements of civil service reform, is expected to continue
implementation of the reduction in force program, started with Decree 13 of
1987. In 1988 some 1000 civil servants effectively left the payroll and
for 1989 a target of 1500 has been set. With a planned further net
reduction of 1000 civil servants in 1990, the civil service work force will
have been reduced by some 4500 staff, about 27 percent, over a four-year
period. With the assistance of UNDP, the Ministry of Civil Service and
Labor is revising the Civil Service Statutes, which should be approved by
government by mid-1989, when the civil service census is also expected. In
addition, clearer personnel rules on entry, career progressioD and exit
from civil service will be put in place during 1989. Government is also
expected to establish a central personnel unit in this Ministry, to
administer the revised Civil Service Statutes and the central personnel
registry.
D.   Growth Prospects and Financial Needs of the Program
a.   Growth prospects
47.       The program is based on a considerable amount of adjustment
reflecting in part a continuation of the process begun under phase one of
the program and in part a response to the permanent deterioration in the
terms of trade. The current account deficit is projected to decline from
20 percent of GDP in 1988 to 13 percent in 1991, and the resource balance
to improve by 7 percent of GDP over the same period. In terms of domestic
absorption, this reflects a larger domestic savings effort, primarily the
turnaround of the government's current position from deficit to surplus,
and a modest trimming of the investment rate. On the external side,
barring further adverse movement in the markets for Guinea-Bissau's major
exports, it is expected that exports would continue to expand strongly,
leading to a progressive reduction in the trade deficit. An average annual
growth rate for exports of 20 percent over 1989-91 is achievable, as such
targets imply that many commodities -- fish, shrimp, groundouts, and wood
products -- would merely reachieve earlier export volume levels. Bleak
prospects for the international price of cashews, which is expected to
deteriorate again in 1989, further delay the achievement of external
equilibrium, and highlight the urgent need for diversification. Meanwhile,



- 14 -
appropriate exchange rate policy, combined with import parity pricing, and
the substitution of domestic for imported rice, supported by measures to
improve domestic self-sufficiency, are expected to lead to a contraction of
food imports in the short to medium term.
48.       By sustaining the structural and stabilization measures of the
program and focussing increasingly on removing institutional and policy
barriers to growth, particularly in private agriculture and fisheries,
Guinea-Bissau is well placed to achieve an average annual rate of growth of
some 4-5 percent over the next few years. This would ensure real per
capita income growth, with real per capita consumption also growing at an
average of over one percent a year, thereby achieving one of the targets of
the Special Program of Assistance for Africa. Agriculture is expected to
maintain its strong showing, with an average annual growth rate of 6
percent over the program period, while fisheries will more than double in
volume terms. Investment, including private investment, is expected to
grow at an average annual rate of between two and a half and three percent,
while the efficiency of investment is also expected to improve as a result
of the program. Real import growth, including rice, is to average two to
two and half percent per year; excluding rice, import growth is forecasted
at 5 percent average.
b.   Financial needs of the proaram
49.       As a result of the heavy burden of existing debt and the
Imbalances in the economy, Guinea-Bissau will require continuing high
levels of external assistance and increased debt relief on concessional
terms for some years to come, if it is to regularize its relations with
creditors and secure sufficient financing for the second phase of its
adjustment program. However, over the medium term the government intends
to increase self-reliance and reduce dependence on foreign credit.
50.       The government has prepared a comprehensive medium term Policy
Pramework Paper and financial strategy, in coordination with IDA and the
IfP. The strategy indicates substantial resource requirements in the short
term, but with a declining need for extraordinary assistance, consistent
with a viable balance of payments scenario in the medium to longer term.
For 1989-91, total financing requirements, including arrears, will reach
approximately US$340 million. The authorities have asked IDA and UNDP to
brganize a Donors Meeting for Guinea-Bissau, to mobilize the resources
required to sustain the adjustment program. In light of the historical
record of financial assistance, some US$256 million over the 1986-88
period, it is realistic to assume that the estimated financial requirements
for the 1989-91 period will be met. A Paris Club meeting is scheduled for
June 1989, where the government will seek to secure the most favourable
rescheduling terms. Toronto terms applied to Guinea-Bissau's debt would be
enough to cover the financing gap over the 1989-91 period. However, these
terms would not reduce the debt burden to manageable proportions.
Consequently, to achieve the Special Program for Africa's objective of a
debt/service ratio of no more than 25 percent, more favorable terms would
be required.



- 15 -
51.       Notwithstanding all government's efforts to implement a
comprehensive adjustment program, due to the heavy burden of existing debt
and the imbalances in the economy (both trade and debt service capacity
Imbalances), Guinea-Bissau will require continuing high levels of external
assistance and increased debt relief for some years to come. As the
scheduled debt service ratio is so high, hovering at about 100 percent over
the next three years, it would not be enough for the country to receive
balance of payments support for imports. Guinea-Bissau also needs the
support of the donor community to finance debt service or debt reduction if
it is not to slip again into arrears, and if it is to reduce the debt
burden to manageable proportions, ie substantially below the current ratio
of 16sl. See annex 2. table 4.
E. Social Impact
52.       The adjustment program is expected to continue to have a
significant positive impact on increasing the income of the poorest groups
in Guinea-Bissau, namely, small rural farmers. While IDA does not, as yet,
have hard data on the impact of the changing economic environment on the
country's most vulnerable groups, under the UNDP-financed Social Dimensions
of Adjustment Program it is intended to carry out such data collection
surveys shortly. The government also intends to prepare, starting at end-
1989, an annual progress report on the social dimensions of adjustment and
on efforts to alleviate the main dislocations. A number of recent baseline
surveys of urban and rural households suggests that in terms of some of the
basic needs, such as an affordable, adequate ioodbasket, as well as shelter
and employment opportunities, the rural population in Guinea-Bissau is
better off than their urban counterparts. In addition, higher farmgate
prices and greater availability of imports have already increased the
welfare of many of the rural poor. Urban dwellers tend to do better in
terms of access to safe water, education and health facilities, although
some groups, particularly redundant government employees and the urban
poor, have been adversely affected in the initial phase of the program.
This is due to the shrinking size of the civil service, retrenchment in
most urban services and the drive towards full cost recovery, as planned
reductions in the current budget of the government are put into effect.
53.       The Social and Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project, which is
closely interlinked with our adjustment program, addresses these issues in
some detail. This project, to be implemented over the 1989-92 period, is
expected to contribute to alleviating some of the adverse impacts of the
country's difficult economic conditions. The project includes components
for urban infrastructure, sites and services for low-cost housing,
educational materials, supplies and equipment, health supplies and
equipment, reorientation unit for civil servants who have been or will be
dismissed from government services as a result of the SAP, and technical
assistance. The project's major urgency lies in its employment generation.
Project benefits would include rehabilitation and maintenance of urban and
social infrastructure which will lead to improved overall sanitary and
environmental conditions, an expanded supply of sites and services for low-
cost housing, increased quality of delivery of health and education
services, and support to a reorientation unit for assisting displaced civil
servants.



- 16 -
F. Benefits and Risks
54.       The main risk is that inadequate administrative capacity may
prevent the government from implementing the program on schedule. To
minimize this risk, the program has been designed to assist in improving
its efficiency, focussing on key areas: tax and budget administration; the
public investment program; external debt management; public sector reform,
particularly reform of the public enterprise sector; and banking.
Technical assistance for many of these posts is already in place, and
working well. In this connection, IDA, through its technical assistance
credit, and other donors (UNDP, IMF, I'AD, as well as bilateral donors)
will fund several advisors and technical experts. The emphasis will be on
developing a critical mass of local experts, and accordingly, ensuring that
there are local counterparts to understudy the foreign experts would be an
integral part of the structural adjustment program.
55.       A second risk is that, due to price and trade liberalization and
reductions in civil service numbers, opposition to the program may grow,
especially in urban areas. To counter this second risk, the government has
prepared a related Social and Infrastructure Relief Project, for which IDA
and other donors financing is also being sought.
56.       Finally, there is a risk that the debt overhang or further
adverse movements in the terms of trade will overshadow the program's
economic gains.  This may take the form of a greater than programed
decline in export prices, and/or larger than programmed increases in the
price of imports, and/or inability to mobilize the necessary concessional
aid and debt relief on a timely basis, and will call for flexibility in the
pace of the adjustment process.
57.       To ensure against adverse movements in the terms of trade, the
government is encouraging diversification in agriculture and fishing.
Fishing is the most clearly under-exploited resource.  Even a marginal
increase in the share of the estimated value of the catch would relieve
much of the pressure on Guinea-Bissau's trade balance in the years to come,
and to secure such an increase is therefore among the two or three greatest
priorities of government. The recent creation of a separate Ministry for
Fisheries signals the government's serious intent.
G. Credit Administration
58.       Procurement.  IDA funds would be used exclusively to finance the
foreign exchange cost of eligible imports of goods and the total cost of
consultant services procured from Bank member countries, including
Switzerland and Taiwan, China. Except for a specific list of excluded
items, such as military, para military and luxury items, all imports from
these countries would be eligible.
59.       Contracts for US$2 million and above would be procured according
to international competitive bidding procedures as defined in the World
Bank's Guidelines on Procurement. Contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, but less than US$2 million, would be



^ 17 -
procured according to international shopping procedures acceptable to the
Association. Contracts costing below US$50,000 would be let by direct
contracting.
60.       Disbursements.  The BNG would administer the credit funds on
behalf of the government and disburse these funds through the Balance of
Payments Management Unit, as it did satisfactorily under SAC T. This unit
would maintain separate accounting records for disbursements of foreign
exchange and repayments in counterpart funds. These accounts would be
audited on an annual basis by auditors acceptable to IDA.  BNG would submit
certified copies of the relevant audited accounts within 12 months of
effectiveness and annually thereafter within six months of the end of each
financial year.
61.       Payment for all imports under the program would be effected
either through a special account held in an acceptable commercial bank,
through requests for special commitments directly from IDA, or by requests
for direct payment to suppliers for contracts valued in amounts not less
than US$50,000.
62.       Requests for special commitments from IDA would be made only for
contracts of US$100,000 and above, and would be accompanied by a copy of
the Letter of Credit, proforma invoice and evidence of three quotations.
63.       Not more than SDR 5.0 million or 28 percent of the proceeds of
the IDA credit would be used for petroleum product imports and not more
than SDR3.6 million or 20 percent for imports of foodstuffs. Furthermore,
as it is essential to maintain the flow of incentive and productive goods
into Guinea-Bissau to support the adjustment program, and particularly the
1989 agricultural campaign that starts in March 1989, up to SDR 3.6 million
(20 percent) of the credit may be used to finance retroactively imports
procured up to four months prior to credit signing. The closing date for
the credit is June 30, 1992.
64.       Special Account.  A Special Account with an initial deposit of
SDR 4 million equivalent would be established in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. Applications for replenisbment to the Special Account
will be submitted on a monthly basis accompanied by a bank statement and by
supporting documents in respect of payments against contracts of US$100,000
equivalent and above. Reimbursements for amounts below US$100,000
equivalent will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs)
certified by BNG with supporting documents retained for review by visiting
missions. The annual audit reports will include a separate audit of
amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs, and on the Special Account.
R. Monitorina and Tranche Release Conditions
65.        Phase two of the goverrment's structural adjustment program
will be supported by a proposed IDA credit of SDR 18.0 million
(US$23.4 million equivalent). Support is also envisaged from the
Netherlands DF10 million (US$4.8 million equivalent); ADF 10.0 million UOAs
(US$12 million equivalent); and USAID US$4.5 million. The IMF is expected
to provide SDR 3.3 million (US$4.3 million equivalent) under the SAP. The



- i8 -
proposed financing package is expected to total the equivalent of almost
US$50 million, or approximately 15 percent of the country's overall
external financing requirements between 1989 and 1991.
66.        The IDA credit will be disbursed in three tranches as follows:
(a)  a first tranche of SDR 8.0 million would be available
iumediately following effectiveness;
(b) a second tranche of SDR 5.0 million would be avaUlable after a
review of performance in December 1989 to determine satisfactory
implementation of the program; and
(c)  a third tranche of SDR 5.0 million would be available after a
review of performance in December 1990 to determine satisfactory
implementation of the program.
67.        The government would be expected to take the following
measures:
I.   Before Effectiveness
(a) observe the agreed second quarter benchmarks on net domestic
assets and on net credit to the government.
1I.  Before Second Tranche Release
(a) (i) implementation by the government of its fiscal and monetary
program for FY89 in accordance with targets agreed with IDA; and
(ii) formal approval by the government of its fiscal and
monetary program for FYT0, including: (1) an interest rate
policy; and (2) adjustment of the overall export taxes for
cashewnuts, including direct tax and handling fees, taking into
account expected production levels, international cashew prices,
and impact on government revenues;
(b)  adjustment of the official exchange rate, in order to maintain a
target spread of not more than 20 percent between the official
and parallel market exchange rates;
(c)  enactment of the legal -zd administrative instruments necessary
to deregulate all retail prices, with the exception of petroleum
products, which would be maintained at financial import parity
levels; and
(d)  implementation by the government of an action plan agreed with
IDA to undertake the reform of the fisheries sector taking into
account the recommendations of the study carried out by the
government and in accordance with a timetable agreed with IDA.



- 19 -
III. Before Third Tranche Release
(a) (i) implementation of the government's fiscal and monetary
program for FY90 in accordance with targets agreed with IDA; and
(ii) formal approval by the government of its fiscal and
monetary program for FY91, includingt (1) an interest rate
policy; (2) adjustment of the overall export taxes for
cas'e,nmuts, including direct tax and handling fees, taking into
account expected production levels, international cashew prices,
and impact on government revenues;
(b) adjustment of the official exchange rate in order to cortinue to
maintain a target spread of not more than 20 percent between the
official and parallel market exchange rates;
(c) maintenance of full price liberalization, with the exception of
petroleum prices, which would continue to be sold at financial
import parity levels; and
(d) (i) implementation of the action plan agreed with IDA for the
for the reform of the public sector; and (ii) implementation of
the action plan agreed with IDA for the reorganization and
rehabilitation of EAGB.
PART III. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
68.       IDA lending to Guinea-Bissau as of March 31, 1989 amounted to
US$110.8 million, of which US$86.49 had been disbursed, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$24.31 million. Infrastructure accounts for 36
percent of total IDA commitments, emergency reconstruction and adjustment
lending for 27 percent; support to strengthen macroeconomic management
capabilities, 14 percent; petroleum exploration, 12 percent; and
agriculture, population, health and nutrition and education, 11 percent.
There are no IFC investments in Guinea-Bissau. Annex VI contains a summary
statement of Bank Group Operations.
69.       IDA has played a key role in supporting Guinea-Bistau's economic
recovery program, beginning with the pr-posed policy agenda of the 1982
Country Economic Memorandum.  IDA's couatry assistance strategy is geared
to supporting the government's structural adjustment program by a series of
balance of payments credits, designed to support a policy package which
would maintain a stable macroeconomic environment and increase domestic
investment and savings, leading to sustainable macroeconomic growth.
Continued inflows of concessional resources from other donors are also
necessary for the surcess of the program. IDA can help mobilize these
inflows under the Special Program of Assistance. As the largest donor In
Guinea-Bissau, IDA intends to play a very active role in donor
coordination, and to facilitate this we have recently established a
resident mission in Guinea-Bissau. The recently approved Technical
Assistance Project is designed to complement the policy measures being
introduced under the adjustment program, and to help improve the absorptive



- 20 -
capacity and efficiency of the economic ministries. Under this project,
IDA supported a study of public enterprise reform, with implementation of
these reforms to be carried out under phase two of the adjustment program.
SAC IS is also supporting institutional reform of key economic ministries,
vital at the sectoral level. Through its economic and sector work, IDA is
assisting government in carrying out a public expenditure review to ensure
that as far as possible intersectoral and intrasectoral budgetary
allocations conform to macro policy targets and sectoral priorities.
70.       IDA is working with the government on an agricultural sector
strategy aimed at: (a) introduction of a well focussed system of public
services for agricultural research, extension and education and training;
(b) strengthening of the financial system to meet the credit needs of those
operating in traditional, estate and private agricultural marketing and
processing activities; (c) preparation and implementation of a rural road
program; (d) strengthening the sector's capacity to formulate agricultural
policies and to prepare, monitor and evaluate the agricultural sector's
investment program; and (e) establishment of a mechanism for coordinating
foreign aid to the sector. In carr,ing out this agriculture strategy,
attention will be devoted to the reformulation of sector policies and
programs that promote agriculture, forestry and fishing in ways that are
environmentally safe. More than US$15 million from the public investment
program will be invested annually in this sector over the program period,
including development of bas-fond rice areas and livestock.
71.       In the next few years, IDA plans to complement the assistance of
SAC II with support for a Social and Infrastructure Relief Project (FY89)
designed to alleviate the social cost of adjustment; an Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Projert (FY90) to strengthen transport institutions and
finance a timeslice of public transport expenditures; aL, Agriculture Sector
Development Project (FY91) to improve availability of rursl credit (for
food production, export crops, livestock, forestry, and fish-eries) and
agricultural services, mainly extension and research; and possibly an
Energy and a Small and Medium Industry Project (both FY92). A follow-up
adjustment credit may be required to sustain the reform momentum (FY92),
although the intention is to reduce government's dependence on such
exceptional financing as quickly as possible.
PART IV. THE ROLE OF THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
72.       IMF-IDA Coordination.  IDA has coordinated closely with the IMP
in the preparation of the structural adjustment program, including
overlapping missions to Guinea-Bissau. The IMF has led the dialogue with
government on the exchange rate and monetary policy, and made a significant
contribution to the development of the fiscal program. A jointly-prepared
Policy Framework Paper has formed the basis for the medium-term
macroeconomic framework underlying the present program and the IMF's SAP.
73.       UNDP.  The UNDP continues to play an active role in Guinea-
Bissau. It organized a first round table in July 1984, a technical
assistance/human resources meeting in May 1987, and another round table in



. 21 -
July 1988. In addition, Guinea-Bissau has had generous amounts of donor
support since it embarked on its economic recovery program in 1983, not
all, unfortunately, for projects or programs with the highest return. A
more effective coordination of external aid would, however, substantially
enhence the performance of the various sectors, and we expect our new
resident mission to play a greater role in this activity, in close
coordination with the governmLnt and other donors. The new Ministry for
Economic Coordination is also expected to improve day-to-day management of
the economy.
74.       Other donors.  In addition to project lending, assistance to
meet the country's minlm  import requirements has been provided by several
countries, especially the Netherlands, Switzerland, and Saudi Arabia, and
most recently, the EEC, as well as AfDB, IFAD and IMF. There have also
been substantial food aid disbursements principally from the European
Community, the World Food Programme, USAID, and the Soviet Union. During
the first phase of the structural adjustment program, Special Joint
Financing was provided by the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the Saudi Fund
in the amount of US$11.9 million. A further US$20.8 million was provided
by multilateral agencies -- AfDB, IFAD, and the IMF.
PART V. RECOHMENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1989



- 22 -
ANNEX I
1988 SOCIAL  INDICATOR DATA SHEET                            Paso 1 of 2
GUINEA-B! SSAU
Reference Groups (St)
most
Recent                    Lowee mid
1965       1975    Estimate   Low-ineome        Income
LAMOU FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)           280        324         432
Fema1e (%)                        43        '43          42         34          29
Agriculture (%)                   as         83          82         66          S5
Inaustry (%)                       2          3           4          14         16
Participation rate (%):
Total                             53         S2          48          47         37,
Male                              63         61         .58         ;j8         g
Female                            44         42          39          38         23
Age dependency (X)                                       90.8       71.6        82.7
HAUSINS
Average size of household:
Total
Urban
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    26         64          60          99        104
Male                     38         90          81        110         109
Female                   13         39          40         87          99
Secondary: Total                   2          3          Ii          34         42
Male                    2      ,              18         41          47
Female                  2          2           4         25          36
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           30         38          25          39         31
Secondary                         19          10         12                     23
Pupils reaching gradt    (X)''                             12                     72
NCOME. CISUMPYTICN. AD POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)                                               327         361
Percentage of private Income
recetved by:
Highest 10% of hOuseholds         ..          ..         ..          -
Nighent 20%
Lowet 20%
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty Income
level (USS par capita):
Urban
Rural
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income lesv (X) 
Urban
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)                     9.8         6.9       32.0        43.5
IECSE August 1988
OM eWveIe. NM   t _mu _n tMetas Of pegulelln OM   w eW rl. w ht 1W? gudsS oSgWMI& Ote.
0.6MW eWegh on gsuo VMMWd. cn*" of eue dePnds on dUe evailbilit an aet undo.. Unss etbe.Aw **W.
I36 It  to &      bevow m. 1"W WA lo  ISIS t   st 1_73 amen 197k eM M" rsebt et"een  a" ed$



-23 -
Page 2 of 2
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
GUINEA-BISSAU
Rfterence Orouos iMQE)
Most
SRoc nt                   Lower mie
1965       1975    Estimate   Low-income       Income
AREA
Total land area (thou sq kim)     36.1       36.1        36.t
Agricultural t% of total)         42.7       43.4        43.5
OGP PER CAPITA (current USO)                     190        t60        280         730
POPULATION AND VtTAL STATtSTICS
Total population (thou)            525        628         924
Urban pop. ( of total)              16         21          28         28          38
Population growt" rate(%):
Total                                       1.8         3.3        1.9         2.S
Urban                                       4.6         6.1        5.7         4.2
Lift  expect. at birth (yrs)        35         36          39         61          99
Population projections:
Pop. In 2000 (thou)                                   1.226
Stationary pop. (thou)                                3 572
Population defnsity per sq km
of agricultural land                34         40          55        349         404
Pop. age structure (X)
0-14 yrs                                                 44         37          42
15-64 yrs                                               52          5o         5S
Ss and above                                              3          4           3
Crude birth rate (per thou)         46         46          46         30          3S
Crude death rate (per tnou)         29         28          25          10         t0
Total fertility rate               5.9        6.0         6.0        3.9         4.7
Intant mart. rate (per thou)       196        175         176         72          76
Child death rate (per thou)         41         35          31          9          It
Family planm ng:
Aceptors, anual (thou)
Users (% of married women)                     t
FOOD, HEALTH AND NMTRITION
Index of fo 00 productton per
capita (1979-81 * 100)             135        125         132         11s        106
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)             t.862      1.806       2.073      2.327       2.507
Proteins (grams per day)          36         35          4t         55          56
Pop. per physician (thou)                                 7.5        5.8         7.5
Pop, per nurse (tnou)                                     1.1        4.0
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)                              0.5        1.1         1.t
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                   t1          31
Urban                    20         21
Rural                              .37
Population Growth            Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 
'II -"7s. ....o             *- o         a. is-
eXowwc^- ~   ~     10       - au*-wa@la
OR UVIWA-#ISRU                    ,               O8uSNA- tSAU
co nlT 5cr siteup                                   EMS1~333 MLPE94f



- 24-                                       Tabl- 
034-h6M   IEY E49C 2IaT   1/
-   cuI-    -be-                                            proj
1164   n1o5   1966   li         S    16    1900    1991   191    1996   1994   1         2JC
IttloAl McMmt1 U(not <_I                             trom era,m rYea la  ogit)
IIP at _sI  pric               5.5    4.J   -1.0    5.6    41    5.1    4.5    4.4    4.5    4.6    4.5    4.5    4.0
WY O/ a.A.    N.A.   N.A.   5.7    8.1    4.7    4.5    4.8    4.4    4.5    4.3    4.5    4.0
WY/apita 8S                   N.A.    N.A.   N.A.   5.8    0.8    2.8    2.2    2.0    2.0    1.1    2.0    1.9    1.6
Trotl onsauptoh/empita         N.A.    4.7    4.8    2.5    1.5    1.1    1.2    1.1    0.9    1.2    0.8    1.2    1.8
Oveot abm, & we                78.0  -41.7    A.6   21.5    8.7   21.8    1.1    9.5    9.1    8.4    g.8    9.4    6.0
Impart. ade &8 I              19,2    6.7   -0.4  -14.5   10.6    2.9    2.5    2.0    1.0    1.4    0.6    2.8    8.5
post Gads E     it@p          N.A.   -1.5    8.0   -4.0    4.8    0.7    0.8    0.7    0.8    0.5    0.8    0.9    0.8
Topt EliatiF excluding rise   NA.   NA.   N.A.   -4.8    4.6    1.1    1.0    1.8    1.1    1.0    0.8    1.2    O.9
(in perost of caP, unism othrwis mpctitd)
_.. zsw.steus/C  (r-)          8a.0   82.0   21.2   14.5   18.1   15.7   18.4  :151.11   18.0   14.8    1.    14.4   14.0
"ainl Sving4  (rvfa)          -4.9  -U1.2   -4.8    4.5   -4.8    4.1    4O   -1.1    0.0    0.0    1.0    2.7    4.7
ruisml Nrb4i1 b'vr4s btt 4/  NA.   40.7   *0.8   10.6  .9.2   28.0   20.8   19.9   25.0   21.8  28.7   18.6    18
FbblitJTotl I.esbnt 4/         N.A.   V.A.   N.A.   .LA.   N.A.    6.8   95s es. 2 6.    94.8    9.0   16.0   91.9   05.0
_t_st Fihance a/                                  (in per-t of GP
&Pdoatay RrAMIUS               12.6   11.7    8.1   15.8   14.8   18.8   17.T   17.    17.5   17.5   17.    17.5   175
0arrel Siedittres              00.5   19.8   17.8   18.8   18.0   19.9    8.8   17.1   18.9   14.8   18.9    .LS    11.5
owr,n O491.1  (-a_ aarplu      7.7    7.8    9.7    8.2    8.8    8.8    1.1    0.4   -1.8   -2.7   -8.6   .4.8   -8.1
osras DW.eacI.InberetDbet      5.1    51    5.6   -2.0   -1.2   -4.2   4.7    4.5    4.9   -7.5   -7.6   -7.6    4.9
1blwmofPesn                                       (in U ail iIc)
go. of on"nd Sarvicm          28.4   15.1   17.5   80.9   80.9   81.7   85.7   40.8   45.2    1.0   86.7   45.1  109.0
Ip. of   s and SWrvic_        -80L.   48.1  -80.8  .40.2  -1U.1  -10.5  -10.8  -115.0  -:1118.9 ..1-   -.10.2  -11.8  -W.9
amis an Services blanc.       -9.2  -W.0  -64.8   46.8  -74.2  -76.8  -74.0  -74.7  4-.7  -n.8  741.5  -12.5  48.8
a-ste (official)              21.8   80.?   48J    45.6   44.0   828    49.6   10.5   51.8   80.6   S8.?   84.5   18.6
Goreat Acownt blasce          48.2 1 -0.4  -*.0  -12.9   46.9  -3.6  84.1   48.8  -61.21   -16.6   -.U   -16.1  42.7
=1I 1blur-                   -18.0  -18.8  -1V.7    2.0  -14.1  -1l.1   -9.8    ..   4.8   -4.2    1.8    4.    10.4
(in peranof W)
bearce blan  8/               -95.1 42.9  -80.8  -10.7  .41.6   -.1   -6.9   48.8   4.4   411.0   1.8  -8.0  41tA
b=ds an Servies blance 5/     -1.9  48.8   48.8   414.2  40.7   4.6 . -.4.4  -4.0   4a.8   45.    42.6   48.8 4.4
OArre*t Acount blanc. 8    4 0.4  03.9  -10.0   -7.9  -19.8  -35.6  -18.0  -38.4  -11.8    -.2   -7.5   48              4.8
Tar of Trde md..               VA.   V.A.   100.0  10.5   65.2   81.8   83.5   95.7   18.8 A      8.0   61.9    6.9   61.7
0bt wn Debt swvioe 6/                             (In MS mIllion)
DOlD                          M.21   801.9  1B4.0  411.6  419.0  428.2  49.8   444.4  455.0  464.7   47.2   44.9  809.6
Ptrinaipal Ftymmt *a*          4.1    4.9    8.1   14.8   18.2   8D.7   18.7   13.6  28.0   80.8   234    19.0   10.0
&ners P_ mts DA                8.4    5.1    6.8    7.4   I0A    11.9   12.1    1.7   10.9    9.8    8.6   80.    10.4
bt sawijl95 (In 1)             40.2   18.5   802.    91.8   9.8  106.9   95.8   975    60.9   84.9   e1.8   4.0   18.8
bd*t bricaloP (in 65            8.7    6.8    6.8   11.8   17.6   80.1   19.1   22.0   10.5    .1   14.71  111.          A6
ID/OS (in O)                    6.5  S1$.5  1911.  149.6  101o.0  3460.6  11.8  110.6  100    990.7  541.8   7.O  07.9
DOIM  (in Os 68.8  118.6  14.6    2.4  36.8  801.8  S1n.1 .. 9 8.                            .8 9.7  117.2   X.8  17.6
br._e  NaItioal a" of Gtionesim   utd Me  ti_I
21 Ompits rant lmprwemnte the daft bow In asinea-6Imm  rmrmin wed. llrdo.. the  -    dlcate. auld be intevrtd with cain.
v/ National Accuts gtnion _We c_          d   In 1966, t_hereto.' tamte r o. pr_vlaws pe ar n        aIc.
a/ my . -w adjus  fr d_nge in the tr  at trad.
4/ M* expressed as pwonteo.f IDP
8/ colculatd fte  clrrat p1lca data.
I/ SEiludlng W, _sopt *c noe.



- 25 -
1A1I 2
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~7, a
amok-Im"$ inam w avweus
. 0vu  Aumb                               4014  -3.0  -01.  -3.   .36   ..1  -98   -U.*  -18.  -1.5  -1.1  -a?
td lbltam                     .4f  -a.9  .45  -0.5   4.0  -41.0 s8.8  48.6  -8.1  -8.   48 .1  48.    4.0
Bowu.f.e.b.                 17.4   1.6   9.7   154    L.9  9D.8   91.8   3.4   8.0  W.            4.0   49.6  A.
ZW0FW.#Al6b.              -4.1  48.5    .9  -4.7  48.0  48.6  -5.0  4_.0  -M.1  48.8  419  .48.  -.13
svtic  (n6*                   -17.9  -19.6  .5   -W.*   41.4  485.1  48.0   -82   41LT   48.   4.A  -U?  .4*
Snu am                        -4.1         -0.    - .4  -20.4   2             -UA    2.0   -A    -0.0  -0.4  -8.04.f.
Dr dinfvg                   40     4.8    0.4  -0.2   40.1   0.1   -0.1  -0.1   4.1    41    40.1   4.1   4.
NY d1ab1stlu anal           4.9   -1.9   4.8   -7.4   4.6  -11.9  -11.1  -10.   -4.5   4.1    4.7   4.5   4.T
Ol dab% p stw  -  mAt        0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   4.    4n.5   -1.*   4.1   4.0   -74
tMVb a does da6              0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   n.9 o -o.0   -.0    .0   -1a    0.0   0.0  o.0    0o.
Flib a" ?auWW.L 4.9  -40    -7.5  40.4   4.4   4.1   4.1   4.7  -10.9  -ll   -UA   -.9A   -3.
gm 7iwiaibl_                  -7.9  -11.0   4.-7   -3"   -42    -1LI  -1I37  -1.?  -1.4  -15.   -1.0  -19.8  -1.5
Tgsagfw  o)e                   91.4   s.1   4.0   4.6   ffA    a"    0.    a5   3.    a"    I.1   8.   6.
gmcitlw a'                    929.8   3.5   4S.   45.6   46.0   3.8   49.6   S"    81.5   3.6    W7   58.0   am
read * or .we                       5.    1.9   17.7   U.7   1.    8.0 V.    15.0   S8   1.    I".6  16.5
PmFj3 Aid                          5.4   81.6   O.9   S."    8.6   85.6   W.    86           A.4   40.2   41.0   4.0
fti%Vd Tewarwe                -4.    -      -       0       .0.0   45.    9.6   2.6   18*    6*    1.1   8.0   1.6   11.    L5    1.?   J.
L *tmtD A_Wn                       WtA    9.0    OA9   I       I"     8.2  ILI    0.1    ad6   3.7   Si          .7   OAo
NS 01dura.nw                   4.i   40.1  A17.9    .1   8J.4   3.O   S         L7    8*   MA    SL.   S56   40.4
o_lm=wb                                     7.0   15.A   3.7 IIL8   15   14.6  A2   15"   1L8              1    1V.6
?<ieeW                                     210.9  18.5   39.7   16.    VA      .1   19.0   10.7   85.1   D.5  8M.
_wmtdi6n -6.    4                           4.1  -14.5  -1A    -0.7  -2.7  -W.6   48L6   -45   48.4  -19.0  -10.
C.b*& ..mdPrOL    PAW.p0t            6   -tOA   -4.8  -4.7   4A        9       .5   IL$    9.7   9.7    a7L  9.7   9.7
u. owe01 fblm (S&Q                 -50  -18"   -7.7   9.0  -14*   -2.1    4.5  -15.6   4.         -4.9  -1.8   4.8   104
IL  hmw  In Dbt Smwlc hAnu                             a.9    7.1  -16.6   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
F. TSI                            -50   -18.   -1.7  -58.9  -7.1  4.4.    4.8  -S5.6   4A    -4.2  -1.8   4.8   14
a. Fi.mslag                        15.0   V5.  17.7   86.9   7.1   3.0    *.5   S6    O           42    1.5  -4l *   -10.4
atmum to #n                     7.8   8.7   4.   -11.0  -4.6  -1.6   4.7   4.5   4L0   4.7  -0.0   -.4   4L
use ofSaid Cdit 0we            1.6  -0.9  -1.1   1.7  -1.2    9.0   1.8   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   6.0
DnqWI                         1.6   0.0   0.0   9.0   0.0   9.9    Ls    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
ROWWk"m                        0.0  -0.9   -I   -co   -1*    4.9    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  o0
0um W                          6.2   6.6   4.8  -AJ7   4.6   4.6   4.0    48    40   4-0.7   4.9  -44   4.5
me 6t. gram  (dm    -)                            -10.4   0.6   44    -7.6   4.6    0.5    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
n whabWed dZ                                        45.9    1.    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
FqaiWno Gap                                          0.0   0.0  41.7  -52  -91.1  -1.    -4.6  4L2    9.    7.0
ml sI bm. RAOa C0!MW                1M      M      8     a51   1113   14   16   1nu1   lie    99  5L18  8g1m   9116
Oawrww Amo* wiA Owds               -6.   48.9  48.5  4a.8  -1.7  -156  -76  -48.7  -172 -411.1  -. I 8.8  -0.
bof aod a tb,-le.m $WV.             5.8   85.5   no    O5.9   5.9    .7   85.7  40.8   45.2   8.5   8.7   6.1   M.0
mom of UP pwv& Uis):
1. _Aorcb bi                      -8.1  -2.63" -          J8 8 L.      42..5    -4. 11   48.6  4L4 -I5.43  41.6  48.8  .36   418
5. TabS hOswOA Pit.                -1.8   4.A5   -6    4.45.   - -.   4.8   -7.6   4.6   4.6g  -4.60  -4.11  4.6   4.5I
S. Curnt Atlmt blmi.              -2g1.  -25.18  -106   -7.3  -19.0  -2f.45  -.45A   -3&4  -28    -9.     8      6 4   . - 8 5
Smwm: ibtlml gm* of bi    4M,1W.. 5t8*   if  e6mb..



- 26 -
_~ U
TA*l 8
01 110, _ *
L~~~~~                              -
_r .i te2 Pue      4606.4             .5    4.a  -1.0   8a        4.1    I.1    4.5    4.4    44    4.6    4.       4.     4.0
D1iSSlel        231.0              5.4   8a      LO    10.    4.5   La    6A         5.?    54       2    ao    5o    4.1
TIAnby          Q0.1              -0.5   -0.4   40   -16.    1.0    LO    J.0    8.o    8.8    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
5w,Iom          148.9              8o    4.4   4.4        ?     .0      .0    5. ao    a ao        4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
lalraft Tms      159.4             1.0    1.5    1.4    5.6    44      8.1    4.5    4.4    4.5    4.6    4.5    4.0    4.0
trmmwon           9406.              ?.6    5      -2.6    4.9    a.     5s    a.8    8.4    5.2   5a               5.     5.?
Mile             96?.e                                 -9.6    1.0   -C5    1.0    1.0    1.0    S.2    1.0    L.O    L.O
ftvo              111                                   7.1    &G       S      .Oa  &7 as5  aa   aX a 8    8as
_       Wo            _7amo  Om      L aL  4I.2  -W.    SLo                     3 .O    ao    a.o   &a    SA        aJ      .a
P*lia            9011.?            LS    10.1  4-1.2   -1.`    5O   54    2.7    2.7    2.6    5.8    2*    2.0    2.7
riate                              NA    NA    N.   NVA    N            0    Mo0.    10.0   10.0   600 o6          .    10.0
I eon               S.5             IS.7  -0.    1e   US    6.?   2k.6   11.1    9.8    9.             4     6      9.4    0.0
imports of an      U500       o      6.8   2I9   -1a   -14.5   10.6    29    2.        2.0    1.0    1.4    0.6    5.5    5.
(.14 .amt Pr,im)
afr  X_b1  PM                       100   10    SOO    .mo   1O0   1.o  10.    0.0  10O   1000   a.0    MO .0    0.0
Awraaibw.                         47.6   47.    45.   40.4   47.6   4.9   49.8   80.2   80.6   80.9   5.1    1.4    1.7
TfmpBw7                           We   V.    19a    18.6   15.1   14.5   14.         4.1 #4.0 #5.9   I8A    1.    IL?
sgervtm                           0.2   5.0 8LO  aa      ?    60   SL.         .      .4 a2.1   81.9   81.a?   81L.   8L4
lmdrs. TIMM                        1.6    1.9    8.8    8.     88    8.8     5.      8.8    8.8    8.8    8.5    5.8    5.8
ewAtmuc_                            3CL.   111.8   16    10.1  114.0   35.?  M2   20.0  1CLS   1.5  30.1   01.    90.8
=--ible                                         137    U.7   UA.    20a   I"         9.7    0. a    .0    0.71   8.      7.2
Prves.                                          60.6   90.8  107.  210.4  10*2   60.4   0L2   96.5.5  5"  9Q.1   6.6
frow lnvmdab                        85   88.    81.2   6.    60.0   0Z4   6.?    .S  .9F  o.6  :.5  2W.4   IL?
Pahlle                            54.    8.    281*    06   2W.$    0*    2.4   25.9  26.4 <        .96.    35.2    0.52
M s                               NA.   N       K NA.   NA       2    L       1.8    1.4    1.4    1.7    1.9    2-    8.2
_epwt. of on                        10.    14*    ?.6   14.5   1.? J0.9   3           3.    26.0   2.5 oI"    27.0    0.
lts do a                            49.8   64.6   a0      442   61.8 a    .0   61.1   8.5    W?    MO    54.4   8as   5La
(  blisar t  (11no)                 S0.8   72.9   100   1.1  M$ 4.  4L.9   8O0.9   45.8   M.9    .1  60. 9  74    101.
OulaS     *#1  *%uhA)               1.0   10.0  21.0  51.0  51?.6  20158  1M.8  II.A  1900 l.? .6 2.2    .6  267.8
_urinIl a   Iat co at   II pi. toM
(aillit = 0b
-wr.m  pm                    Ab -                Phelig                      Pj.dlAt
tow           torn   low    toSS   1967   106   toSs   1906   1811   190"a     19n    190    1906  390
ta fh                9.7            7.8  -4.5    0.5   81.6   15.6   MS        4.8   129    19   10*   10.7   11*    6A
_*ua~ts            0.6           -44   -4.9    4.7   000   18.0   100    6.0    6.0    6.0    o.   5.0   &50    8.0
Fe                  LO aM0              -Us   =.o   -.o   1o.o   40.0   .o 0         0.    5.0    5.0    5.0 o     0      .5
CW2 *As             52           800.0  -17.5   1.    75       1.0   80.0   1.    10.0   10.0  t.0    0.0    0.0    6.0
Flt NW Stwip        1.2          141.7  -41.4   -*   .0.0  60.0  60.    80.0   80.0   8D.0   80.0   80.0   80.    5O
oust                0.2          -19.6  -.8    10    -00   10 .0  M0.0   80.0       60.0   0.0    0.0   60.0    00       8.0
bdu   InSO    s      55              8L7    2.4   -L    -M?   V1.        8.5    2.4    82    2.8    2.5    1*    8a    8a
few                 1.8          -15     19.8  -18.0  -11.2   4.2   4.    -7.1   4.2  -U12   -14.8  -0.0    0.0    5S
o_. 01..bmods  l La               -1.2   -O0      5o   -6.    so.1    5.5    4.2    4.0    .S    Sa    8.4    8a    8A
Pil                 6.4            8.5   46.6   1.0    0.4    0.0   17.0    5o    48    4.5    4.6    4.5    4.5    4.0
Iub.0nds           6 208          18.6    86    0.0   -0.2   3.4    2.6    4.2    57    4.0    4.5    4.4    4.8    5o
_estS IMm(196S.460)                 66.0  or.s  10.0  1608   1N79   106.8  106.5  21LO   215    19.8  6B5   W.9  18
?p.atZad.(toSbI0~                   166.0  1014   10   18.O  22.46  18.O8   180.0  10.9  184   1U7   U.?  15.1  19L.1
TM o Tlsd lad.o          t     O     .0   1.4  160.0   1L.   052   81.6    0.    60.7   00.5  60.0   81.9   80.9   St.?
tmamiti.n ml Nrdamudlme TraS. 
C" 4wvm _@"
1606   1905  lO    19    1ow    10        1960   191   196    190   199 19I5           m00
10.O  S10.0  16O0O   160.0  1a.0  10.0   1 0.0     C4.0  10.0 00   160.0  10.0  10.0
GuA_A                             60.0    8.4    6.2    5.     5.      A4    A12   5.       8.6 o   8     6.1    0.4    5.7
01). KICoo-                       18.4    L.    10.8    6.7    8.8   10.1   10.9    1.6   11.9   325   15.    s5.    17.1
O     _.m   m,                    3.86   4L4   00.6    0 0 5.6   40.9          A    44.2   41.    00.    67.4   16o   67.0
Fl1d. WA 1wis                    S18.4   S7.5    2.4    a.3    52    5.0    6.5    S.7    1.6   1L    15.9   1.    17.6
_.                                12.8    6.0   1.8   18.    26.8   29.6   80.5   80.1 a0*   60.4 8.5   6.5  6S.4
ZmguS.                                     160.0  1600   10.0    10. I0 10.   100   IW.O  10D.0   10.O  1S0.0  160.0  160.0
"IC                                      3.a   19.7   21.7   19.9    .$   sLo   1Ls.    11.5    9.6    6.7    6.8    02
cow_ ums. G60g                           24.7   81.0    9.9      * S        2       328 .4   32.8 2A I L     12 7 S1 1 A  12t
51s'om3 S".   10.9   10.6    6.6    5.0                                              9.     9.6   10.0   10.4   10.6   15.
Vm.mdisfs                                3.A   60.6 9S.7   19.?   10.0   19.0   19.0   60.7   81.2   8L.   J5S?  O.0
_ow..bmad fre11                          1.    26.5   6.0    La.5   4.5   45.    4L*   45.    46.5   46.    46.    49.0
gin. W  fteff bt_mIm mu PSJmlom



- 27 - 
Te* 4
CIM-11,Enlmt   Fvtm
tin el  llm  o WS)
i      "a    zwx    ioe      u  s1          rno    =400
1.    JiS                                    -16.5  -0.4  -M.9  -30.4  -6.4  -J.5   -1 .96.?
_>f*AMM   iclt                            -79.0  -0.r   -M.$  -MS.*  :fts.2   :o.2  -ro.9  -0.5
[miluditn official t.w.ti)
(o thidw l_e"t                             -Ml   -St.S  -st.?  -SO.O         -04.    -.   4.5  -tO.4
An"tcn 1=4-.6.7   -2o.r  -W.$  -0.6  -0.3  *4.4  -10.0  -1t.0
_wwwf4 t pt F %W [Otpwduam                    -0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
ZIn,u. In Grm R_nwv   -)                      -0.4   .0.2    1.1   40    4.?   40.9   -1.4    a.8
R.d&abi  to Osb- Ara C-r                     -U.S   -1.    4.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
U. _MnUs
sD1I me U0ED  W111168                     3.4   84.2   U.S    6.        w.    6.8   94.1   1.6
- Om_ts [ficial T,af.m]                       a.    44.    U.S    1.6   U.S   5.7    5.*   5.
o which      cetinanei                       5.5    8.8    6.0    0.8
-14itl. ASilot. Laws: TYbt                   5.9   66.8   U.7   84.1   3R.1   3.0 9        6.6   4M4
* Pre Cto                                 1.0    1 7.    10.1   19.0   19.7   60.1    D.8    Z.S
 *ap-supporb                            =1       18*    14.6   1       t.2 ia.5   16*    2.1    V.a
at uhidt MU  MAW.)                       oa4   10.9   12.      44
-W                                            u.o0    1.t    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
- Othe .pibl Ini  2a 1.8                                 2.8 16      .7    1.?    2.7    2.t    1.
- U.de4l.d da
Mf. IMUOL FDtCIJ GP ER1 -0.1  -1t.1  -3.1  -1.9    4.8   4R                                1.9    7.9
I,  tA flwew  dIffer fra SM thbln 4.4.D thepd A   I, dthe I aI I    V" W t end th World Sw da  aimcl_
In f%b.1M.
2, lasludas *nia, m)a  _b.iti  wih Di,bi Algrl 8. htn aud *ewi hrd. amuiug    ss>~ U0.4dIIhn,
abitd baa b_n meldra _ aegulat4 In 1hn1.. Xl   Pwt



- 28 -
ANNEX UII
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section It Timetable for Kev Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      5 months
(b)  Departure of appraisal mission:    November 1988
(c)  Completion of negotiations:         March 1989
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:      July 1989
Section II: Special Conditions
(1) Before Effectiveness
(i)     observe the agreed second quarter benchmarks on net
domestic assets and on net credit to the government.
(2) Before Second Tranche Release
(i)     implement the agreed fiscal and monetary program for
1989, and adopt satisfactory program for 1990,
including (a) interest rate policy; and (b) adjustment
of the overall export taxes for cashewnuts;
(ii)     adjustment of the official exchange rate policy, to
maintain a target spread of not more than 20 percent
between the official and the parallel market exchange
rates;
(iii)     liberalize remaining price controls, except on
petroleum products,  hich would be maintained at
financial import parity levels; and
(iv)     implement agreed fisheries action program.
(3)  Before Third Tranche Release
(i)     implement the agreed fiscal and monetary program for
1990, and adoption of satisfactory program for 1991,
including (a) interest rate policy; (b) export tax for
cashews; and (c) tax and tariff reforms;
(ii)     continue flexible exchange rate policy, to maintain a
target spread of not more than 20 percent between the
official and the parallel market exchange rates;
(iii)     continue full price liberalization, except for
petroleum products, which would be sold at financial
import parity levels; and
(iv)    make satisfactory progress in implementing public
enterprise reform including EAGB, in accordance with
agreed action program.



-29                              ANE  IV
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GUINE&-BZSSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Government Letter of Develogment Policy. 1989-1991
Mr. Barber R. Conable
President
International Deve.opment Association
Washington, D.C., IJ.S.A.
Dear Mr. Conables
Res Guinea-Bissau's Structural Adiustment Program -- Phase Ils 1989-91
1.        Ae Guinea-Bissau enters the s"cond phase of its structural
adjustment program (SAP), the government is committed to continue
implementation of a wide range of economic reforms. By this letter, the
government requests from the International Development Association (IDA) a
second Structural Adjustment Credit to support the second phase of its
program.
2.        To this end, let me first briefly recapitulate our experience
with the reforms we introduced during the first phase (1987-88) and then
describe in some detail the objectives and further actions we intend to
implement as part of the second phase (1989-91). Accompanying this letter
is a matrix presenting these actions in timetable form.
I.   INTRODUCTION
A. Backsround
3.        After independence in 1974, Guinea-Bissau faced the task of
rebuilding its economy. The protracted liberation war had dislocated one-
fifth of the population, destroyed an important part of the aconomic
infrastructure, and reduced output of the main crops by over one-third. An
ambitious public investment program financed mainly by external borrowing
was implemented, focusing on the manufacturing sector but neglecting
agriculture. Inappropriate pricing policies, an increasingly overvalued
exchange rate, and an inefficient marketing system prevented recovery of
agricultural production, depressed official exports, and stimulated the
parallel market. Severe fiscal imbalances, resulting from a rapid rise in
government expenditures and limited growth in revenues, were increasingly
financed by central bank credit, thereby fueling inflation. In the period
1980-82, the external situation was aggravated by drought and depressed
world market prices for the country's main exports. The balance of



- 30 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 15
payments deteriorated rapidly, exacerbated by rapidly increasing external
debt service payments, and external arrears accumulated.
4.        The Government introduced an economic recovery program, starting
in 1983, designed to correct the inappropriate policies of the post-
independence decade. The program entailed a devaluation of the currency,
increases in producer prices, and steps to liberalize domestic trade. This
program was supported by IDA and the IMF. But the adjustment process lost
momentum in 1985 due to a sharp deterioration in the prices of the
country's major exports, delays in implementation of institutional reforms,
insufficient production incentives, and inappropriate fiscal and monetary
controls.
5.        In 1987, the government embarked upon renewed efforts at
structural adjustment program. The first phase of the program focussed on
two issuess (a) how to restore the competitiveness of exports and import
substitutes; and (b) how to reduce the direct role of government in the
economy. Under the program the government adopted a flexible exchange rate
system with a view to maintain a realistic value for the Guinean peso,
introduced more restrictive monetary and fiscal targets, and broadened and
reinforced the trade and price liberalization measures introduced in 1983.
IDA and the IMF supported the program as did the Netherlands, Switzerland,
the Saudi Fund, AD?, and IFAD.
B. Progress under Phase I of the-Structural Adiustment Program (1987-88)
6.        Overview. The economy has responded well to the program. Led
by a favorable supply response to the stabilization and liberalization
measures, GDP grew by between 4 and 6 percent per year in 1987 and 1988.
This was due to significant increases in rice, cashew, and palm kernel
production, reflecting increases from both traditional small farmers and
the commercial farmers uponteirosu. Export growth has been impressive,
averaging over 20 percent per year in real terms. Real per capita also
consumption grew substantially, with private consumption growing by over
one percent per year in 1987 and 1988. Government kept control over the
fiscal and monetary situation in 1987, with the current budget deficit
declining markedly compared to previous years. The public investment
program was reoriented away from commercial projects. However in 1988,
there were slippages in meeting the monetary targets, due in part to
institutional weaknesses and lack of timely data necessary to manage
properly the budget and the credit program. This has put pressure on
prices and the exchange rate and highlighted the need for a more reliable
data tracking system under the program, particularly with regard to credit
monitoring.
7.        Fiscal policy.  The current fiscal deficit was reduced by about
two-thirds in real terms in 1987, to approximately 3 percent of GDP. As
scheduled, civil service numbers were cut by about 5 percent, from 16,600
to 15,900. During 1988, the current fiscal deficit is estimated to have
deteriorated somewhat compared to 1987, mainly due to higher than
programmed expenditures on goods and services. In addition, the civil



-31 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 15
service reduction program slowed somewhat due to the limited availability
of funds for redundancy payments and government concerns about rising
unemployment. Consequently, the number of civil servants was reduced by a
little over 6 percent, compared to the 10 percent programmed. Public
investment is estimated to have recovered somewhat in 1988, after
successive cutbaks in 1986 and 1987, as government sought to improve the
delivery of essential public services in health, education and shelter, as
well as to remove infrastructure bottlenecks. Public consumption declined
by 10 percent in 1987, and increased slightly in 1988.
8.        Monetary volicy.  During 1987-88 there was a substantial
increase in domestic liquidity fueled by a greater than programmed credit
expansion. Broad money increased by over 70 percent in both 1987 and 1988.
During 1987 credit developments were dominated by the financial
requirements of the public sector and the need to finance the cashew crop
campaign. In 1988, credit to public enterprises and term credit to the
private sector were the main causes of growth in credit. The availability
of information on credit and money supply has recently improved, and in
October 1988, the Government established a credit committee with a view to
improving credit control. Interest rates were raised in May 1987 to 21-30
percent for deposits and 25-38 percent for lending, from previous levels of
5-16 percent. The new interest rate structure was based on the assumption
that the underlying inflation rate would decelerate to about 25 percent by
year end. In the event, actual inflation rates have exceeded projected
levels, interest rates have remained negative in real terms.
9.        Exchange rate policy.  During 1987-88 the government implemented
a flexible exchange rate policy aimed at reducing the divergence between
the official and parallel exchange rates. Through a steady depreciation,
the official exchange rate was brought broadly in line with its market
value. This resulted in the increased profitability of the traded sector,
the diversion of exports from parallel to official channels and the
reduction of rent-seeking activities.  Between May 1987 and end-1988, the
Guinean Peso (PG) was devalued by over 400 percent in domestic currency
terms, with the aim of closing the gap between the official and parallel
market exchanges rates. The gap, which stood at three-to-one at the
beginning of the program, has been much less since then, between 5 to
30 percent, depending on the pace of credit expansion and the timing of the
arrival of import shipments, which exerted strong and often erratic
pressure on the parallel and the official exchange rates. The real
official exchange rate is estimated to have depreciated by some 50 percent
between end-1986 and end-1988.
10.       Prices and waxes. While inflation remains a serious problem,
some modest progress has been made. Although a reliable price index is not
available, food prices are estimated to have increased by about 120 percent
in 1986, 110 percent in 1987, and 80 percent in 1988. Price behavior
reflected demand pressures generated by excess domestic liquidity. As
indicated above, almost all prices are freely determined, and the prices of
controlled goods (rice and petroleum) have been adjusted in line with
changes in the official exchange rate.



32-                                     IV
Page 4 of 15
11.       The economy of Guinea-Bissau is based on amall agricultural
holders that hire little or no external labor. Hired labor is compensated
mostly in-kind and therefore monetary wages are not an important variable
in agricultural production. Wage compensation is largely confined to the
formal urban sector, dominated by the central government and public
enterprises. Wages in the public sector have lagged behind inflation, with
real wages declining by over 50 percent between 1986 and 1988.
12.       External debt.  Total debt outstanding at end-1988, including
arrears, is estimated at US$420 million, some 16 times exports of goods and
non-factor services. About 90 percent of this debt is medium and long
term. Arrears of US$48 million account for the remainder, including short-
term arrears of the National Bank, estimated at US$21 million.
Multilateral creditors hold less than half the total debt, with the rest
owed mainly to bilateral creditors and a relatively small amount to
financial institutions and suppliers.
13.       Scheduled debt service in 1987 and 1988 approached 100 percent
of exports. As Guinea-Bissau could not meet these obligations, our
government sought debt rescheduling and debt forgiveness. Canada and the
Netherlands cancelled their outstanding debt and Portugal and Libya
converted part of their debt to domestic currency. In October 1987, the
Paris Club creditors agreed to reschedule principal on eligible debt
falling due during the period July 1, 1987 through December 31, 1988, and
all payment arrears accumulated through June 30, 1987. In 1988, bilateral
negotiations with France, Brazil, and Switzerland were concluded. However,
due to the heavy debt service burden and a shortfall in export receipts,
new arrears of about US$8 million were accumulated in 1988.
14.       At the start of the adjustment program, the government adopted a
strict foreign indebtedness policy. This policy prohibits the contracting
or guaranteeing of new loans with a grant element of less than 50 percent,
except for normal trade credits and refinancing of existing debt. In
addition, the public sector is permitted to contract new loans only after a
decision of the Council of Ministers, based on the advice of Ministries of
Planning and Finance.    The government has coordinated management of
medium- and long-term debt in the Ministry of Finance's Debt Management
Unit. The unit is responsible for all matters pertaining to external debt,
including debt negotiations and debt reporting. Technical assistance is
already in place to assist the government in this, and UNDP has offered to
finance a full-time debt management expert to provide further help us in
this matter, as, despite progress to date, we need to make further
improvements to our debt management.
15.       Balance of payments.  The current account deficit including
official grants improved from US$23 million in 1986 to US$13 million in
1987, deteriorating again to US$29 million in 1988. Performance in 1987
reflected a number of exceptional factors, including strong growth in
agricultural exports, a decline in official imports, and a temporary
improvement in the terms of trade. Export earnings increased by 33



- 33                             ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 15
percent, led by a 70 percent increase in the volume of cashew exports and a
20 percent increase in their unit price. The drop in merchandise imports
In 1987 was mainly due to lower volumes, reflecting in part delays in
foreign credits disbursements and unfamiliarity with procurement
procedures. The current account deficit was more than compensated by a
capital account surplus of US$19 million, due to sharp increases in
concessional loan disbursements, and debt rescheduling.
16.       The deterioration ia the current account deficit in 1988 was
largely due to a sharp reversal of the terms of trade. Although
merchandise exports grew by 16 percent in volume terms, the international
price of Guinea Bissau's main export, cashews, fell by 18 percent over
1987, resulting in only a 4 percent increase in export values. The
increased availability of foreign assistance allowed a recovery of import
levels. Thus. the value of imports increased by 30 percent, reflecting an
increase of 18 percent in volume and 12 percent in unit values, driven
mainly by a 30 percent increase in the price of rice. The current account
deficit was again covered by concessional loans with a capital account
surplus of US$62 million and the accumulation of arrears.
17.       The thrust of the adjustment program has been a fundamental
reorientation of the economy towards the private sector away from the
public sector. This is most clearly reflected in the reduction in civil
service employment and the shift in exchange rate policy under the program,
which has sharply redistributed income from urban public sector employees
to rural producers of cashews, rice, and other traded goods. The
revitalization of the private sector that has been so evident over the past
two years, if it continues, should enable Guinea-Bissau to achieve per
capita consumption increases exceeding 1 percent per annum, even as aid
dependency declines. The critical issue is thus to support and ensure the
program's sustainability.
II. THE SECOND PHASE OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Background
18.       The reform agenda for the second phase of the structural
adjustment program rocuses on the need to stabilize the monetized economy.
Budget administration and the provision of credit, particularly to public
enterprises and the private sector, is not yet sufficiently well managed,
with a lack of up-to-date and reliable information on the level and
composition of credit and a weak credit administration. 3.6This is
contributing to slippage on the program's fiscal and monetary targets
which, in turn, is causing inflationary and exchange rate pressures. The
public sector also requires reform -- notably in the day-to-day
coordination and execution of economic policy and in the public enterprise
sector, where industrial output has stagnated. Despite important supply-
side gains, private investment has yet to respond, reflecting uncertainty
about the continuation of the new policy dispensation. Meanwhile, the huge
debt overhang implies a debt service burden that could absorb all the gains



- 34 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 15
from adjustment. and thus is a potentia.zy inhibiting factor in determining
the intensity with which adjustment is pursued.
19.       Mindful of these problems, the government, with the help of IDA
and the IMF, has put together a package of measures designed to continue
and ensure the sustainability of the new policy orientation. As
institutional weakness are clearly a key constraint, the program has an
important technical assistant component. The program has the following
objectives: (a) greater macroeconomic stability; (b) more diversified
economic growth; (c) a changing role for government from involvement in
productive activities to the provision of essential public services; and
(d) a reduction in the external debt burden to manageable proportions. The
specific policy actions are outlined below.
1.   Stabilization Policies
20.       The government intends to continue its stabilization policies,
aimed at implementing a consistent exchange rate, monetary and fiscal
policy framework to secure lower rates of inflation. Monetary and fiscal
targets have been set for 1989, and agreed with IDA and the IMP in the
context of its second annual SAP negotiations. These are consistent with a
reduction in the average differential between domestic and international
inflation to less than 20 percentage points by 1990. Ongoing technical
assistance from the IMF, IDA, and UNDP should help government in achieving
its targets.
21.       Exchaae rate policy.  Operationally, we will pursue a flexible
exchange rate policy, aiming to keep the spread between the official and
parallel market rates within 20 percent. Under the program, BUG also
Intends to improve management of its foreign exchange cash flow and prepare
a quarterly foreign exchange budget.
22.       Monetary nolicy.  Credit targets for 1989 envisage a 23 percent
monetary expansion. Net domestic credit is to remain constant, reflecting
a contraction in net credit to government by 19 percent of beginning money
stock, and an equivalent expansion of credit to the non-government sector.
These targets are expected to contain inflation to about 40 percent in 1989
and permit the expansion of investment for productive purposes. End-June
credit targets envision 3.6 percent reduction in net domestic assets
expressed in terms of initial money stock. There is expected to be no net
recourse to bank credit by the government during the 1989-91 period, and
the government's outstanding debt to the National Bank is expected to be
liquidated by end-1990. To improve the credit allocation process, we will
strengthen the credit c.  ittee established in October 1988, and monitor
the terms and sectoral cumposition of credit on a monthly basis. Our
objective is to achieve positive real interest rates in 1989, and to
maintain them throughout the program period.
23.       Fiscal policy.  The government's intends to maintain a tight
fiscal discipline during the second phase of the adjustment program and
have adopted a budget that implies a targeted increase in the current



- 35-                            ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 15
fiscal surplus excluding interest payments, from 2.1 percent of GDP in 1988
to 4.2 percent in 1989. The govrtrment intends to continue to trim its
workforce and to use the savings from reductions in civil service numbers
to increase average salaries. Already approved staff reduction targets of
10 percent in 1989, representing some 1,500 staff, would be implemented
flexibly, taking into account availability of funds from the budget to
finance the redundancy package, and the buoyancy of the labor market to
absorb redundant staff. General improvements in budgeting and expenditure
control have been started, and will be reintorced with the help of
technical advisors already in place. A cormprehensive review of the tax
system will be carried out in 1989 with a view to making it simpler, more
efficient and broader-based, and enhancing its incentive effects. Some
reforms have already been introduced into the 1989 fiscal program,
including strengthening tax and customs administration, simplifying the tax
system by removing some taxes and consolidating others, and reducing the
cashew tax. The government intends to Implement additional tax and tariff
reforms by the time of the 1990 budget, affecting export taxes, mainly on
cashews, and import, income and sale taxes, including road and consumption
taxes on diesel.
2. Encouraaina Private Sector Growth
24.       The government's strategy is to encourage diversified growth of
the private sector along the lines of Guinea-Bissau's comparative
advantage. In addition to maintaining competitiveness for exports and
import substitutes through a market-oriented exchange rate policy, this
means appropriate trade and pricing policy, adequate infrastructure and
public services, and a simplified regulatory environment for private
Investment.
a. Trade and nricina policy
25.       The government intends to continue its program of trade and
price liberalization, with the Ninistry of Economic Coord&nation, Commerce
and Tourism, charged with overseeing this liberalization. As one of the
most important steps in this direction, the government in its 1989 budget
eliminated the subsidy on imported rice and provided a one-time
compensatory salary increase of 70 percent to civil servants. The
government has also issued a decree recentlys (a) expanding the automatic
issuance of licenses to 100 percent of commercial imports, excluding
petroleum and a short negative list; (b) abolishing the cereal import
monopoly of the state trading firm, Armazens do Povo; and (c) removing all
remaining price controls, except on rice and petroleum products. Prices
for petroleum products are to be maintained at import parity levels
(including transport. distribution margins and excise taxes) throughout the
program period. By end-1989, price controls on rice would be eliminated
and import bans would be replaced by excise taxes on luxury items as part
of ongoing tariff reform. During 1989, the government intends to remove
the preferential treatment accorded the 'Lojas Francasa, the duty free
shops that deal only in foreign exchange, in view of the improved
availability of Imports within the country.



- 36-                            ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 15
26.       Including all taxes and handling fees, the overall implicit tax
on cashew exports has been reduced to no more than 40 percent for the 1989
season. The government intends to review this tax regularly with the
intention of (a) replacing it by sales and income taxes; and (b) reducing
it to 35 percent in 1990 and 30 percent in 1991, taking into account
expected production levels, international cashew prices and impact on our
revenues.
b.   Sectoral policies
27.       Arilculture.  Since embarking on the economic reform program in
1983, the government has addressed the most important limiting factor to
agricultural expansion, namely, inappropriate pricing and marketing
policies and the unavailability of imported inputs and incentive goods in
rural areas. Reflecting the fundamental shift in policy, the sector has
registered steady growth during the 1984-88 period. Even so, agricultural
production remains far below potential. The area under cultivation is
estimated at only 30 percent of the total land suitable for rainfed or
irrigated agriculture, representing only 65 percent of the area cultivated
during the 1950s. In the next few years, the incentive effects of the
adjustment program are expected to continue to be the main engine of
agricultural growth. However, the sector's medium- and long-term
performance will be clearly influenced by the availability of transport
infrastructure, credit, and extension services. Currently, we are working
on developing an agricultural sector strategy. Barring unforseen events,
agriculture is expected to grow at about 6 percent per year over the next 6
years, allowing for strong growth in exports and a reduction in imports of
food products, particularly rice.
28.       Forestry.  Guinea-Bissau is endowed with extensive forestry
resources which are at present greatly under-exploited. Revenues from this
sector are mall, representing less than 10 percent of export revenues in
1988. A review of this sub-sector, including the environmental impact, is
being undertaken currently with help from the Bank. Policies will
emphasize the optimal exploitation and replenishment of forestry resources
with a view to increasing export earnings while preserving the ecological
balance.
29.       Fishina.  Fisheries is the most important known natural resource
of the country, and, like forestry, could contribute significantly to the
export revenues of Guinea-Bissau. The total value of the current catch is
estimated at between US$100 and US$130 million, close to the maximum
sustainable yield. However, most fish are caught by foreign fleets. In
1988, total revenues from foreign fishing licenses were estimated at about
US$6 million and from direct exports at US$1 million. To stimulate local
production while increasing revenues from foreign fishing, our government
intend to: (a) renegotiate existing fishing licenses with a view to
obtaining more favorable terms; (b) ensure increased local value-added for
foreign-dominated operations through joint-venture arrangements with the
domestic private sector; (c) improve monitoring of licenses and their



-37-                             ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 15
catch; (d) improve domestic fishing operations, artisanal fishing and fish
exports; and (e) develop a longer term strategy for the sector based on
expanding domestic involvement in industrial fishing. The government is
preparing an action plan for the fisheries sector, with implementation
scheduled to begin in the second half of 1989.
30.       Transport.  The government intends to concentrate on maintenance
and improvement of transport infrastructure rather than competing with
private operators in new areas of transport services. Transport prices
have already been substantially liberalized, and remaining price controls
will be removed during the second phase of the adjustment program. The
government intends to reform transport parastatals consistently with its
overall public enterprise reform program.
c.   Development of human resources
31.       The social indicators of Guinea-Bissau are unfavorable, even in
comparison with other low-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Life
expectancy at birth is only 39 years, compared to 50 in neighboring
countries, infant mortality is estimated at between 170 and 180 per
thousand, and almost one-third of all children die before the age of five.
The illiteracy rate is estimated at 84 percent and the enrollment rate has
been declining since 1979.
32.       Because of these problems, the government has launched
initiatives in the health and eduction sectors to promote the development
of the country's human resources. In the health sector, the government
started a plan to reorganize the Ministry of Health in order to improve the
delivery of health services. Health policies focus on primary health care
through low cost technology. In the education sector, the government has
also undertaken the reorgarization of the Ministry of Education, Culture
and Sports, and is currently revising the curriculum of primary education
in order to improve its content and relevance, and to increase the number
of places available. Actions in the education sector include improvements
in teacher training programs and the rehabilitation of primary schools.
d. The public investment program
33.       Capital expenditure will continue to be reoriented, as under
phase I of the program, towards the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, human resource development, and alleviating poverty, and
away from directly productive investments that have commercial potential.
For 1989, the public investment program is estimated at US$75 million
equivalent, with a budgetted execution rate of 80 percent. Agriculture and
rural development, fisheries, forestry and mining represent about 30
percent of the proposed investment program; infrastructure about 40
percent; industry and energy, primarily energy, about 7 percent; the social
sectors 23 percent. The level and composition of public investments are
expected to maintain macroeconomic equilibria and create the conditions for
self-sustained growth.



-38-                             ANBNX IV
Page lOof 1S
34.       The Ministry of Planning has compiled an inventory of ongoing
and proposed projects -- their profiles, sources of financing, and
recurrent budget and debt service implications. Criteria for project
selection continue to be those for which the economic, financial, and
technical viability have been demonstrated. The government intends to
strengthen the Ministry of Planning's role in the preparation of the public
investment program, and in monitoring the implementation of ongoing
projects, including a semi-annual review of project implementation. The
government also intends to strengthen the capacity of the planning and
spending ministries in budgeting and expenditure control, project
evaluation, monitoring, and implementation. Technical assistance is being
provided by several donors, including IDA.
e.   Regulatory framework for Private investment
35.       Given the country's size and per capita income, the avenues for
profitable investment in industry are limited. Lack of supporting
infrastructure and institutions are further constraining factors. We
believe that there is, nevertheless, considerable scope for expanding
sall-scale investment, including private foreign investment, particularly
in fisheries and agriculture. Trade, tourism, and agro-processing,
especially cashew and oil palm processing, also have potential. Mindful of
this potential, our government has embarked on a program to increase
private investment -- including foreign investment. The government's
strategy includes an efficient and stable incentive framework, a revised
investment code, more secure land tenure arrangements, a program of
entrepreneurial development, particularly for small-scale industrialists,
and greater efficiency of the commercial and development banking system.
36.       By end-1989, we intend to review, and if necessary revise, the
investment code. The objective is to ensure that the code is attractive to
foreign and domestic investors, to streamline the administrative framework,
and reduce other impediments to private investment in the courtry,
including exchange controls. UNDP has been requested to finance this
review. We have also embarked on a private investment promotion campaign,
with the financial assistance of UNDP. The government is reviewing land
tenure arrangements to allow lease or freehold title to land, and to
encourage its use for productive purposes. It is intended to implement the
recommendations from these studies in 1990.
37.       The other main element of the private sector promotion agenda
for the 1989-1991 period will be to strengthen commercial and development
banking activities. By end-1989, following consultations with the IMP and
IDA, the government expects to see at least one commercial bank
established, followed by others, with private sector participation. The
government has already signed an agreement with Portuguese financial
institutions to establish a commercial bank with participation of the
government and private investors. The new bank is expected to start
operations by end-1989. in the interim, the government will seek to
improve the operations of the commrcial banking window of the National



- 39 -                           ANNEX IV
Page llof 15
Bank, as vell as its development banking window, DESECO. There is urgent
need to improve access to credit, particularly rural crop credit and term
credit for productive purposes, to further encourage productive investment.
As the sole source of term lending in Guinea-Bissau, DESECO needs to
improve its project appraisal and supervision, as vell as its availability
of funds for productive purposes. DESECO is currently operating with a
skeleton project appraisal staff. Assisted by donors, the government is
expected to implement a fairly comprehensive program for reform of ternm
lending during the program period. During 1989, it expects to concentrate
on improving project appraisal and supervision, with the USAID and possibly
EEC providing funds for on-lending to the private sector.
3.   Public Sector Reform
a.   Public enterorises
38.       Our government intends to reform the public enterprise sector,
which currently contributes 9 percent of GDP and is the major industrial
employer. We have commissioned a study of public enterprises, the results
which are currently under review. During the second phase of the
adjustment program, the government wills (a) divest, restructure as
appropriate, the major public enterprises; (b) eliminate cross debts
between the central government and public enterprises and phase out net
transfers to revenue-earning public enterprises by end-1990; and (c)
introduce institutional and legislative improvements both for management of
individual enterprises and for government oversight and monitoring.
39.       Given the complexities of implementing public enterprise reform,
we expect to start slowly, with one or two privatization, restructuring,
and liquidations in 1989. To benefit from this experience and oversee
implementation of the program, a central unit is to be created by mid-1989
under the new Ministry of Economic Coordination. This unit will be
supported by a resident advisor, with additional help from short-term
experts and studies as needed. This advisor is expected to be funded by a
reorientation or reassignment of resident experts already in-country,
supplemented by financial and technical assistance from the ADF, or IDA
under SAC II.
40.       Electricidade e Aguas da Guine-Bissau (EAGB). Until now the
ability of the electricity and water company to provide reliable and
efficient electricity generation and water supply at low cost has been
hampered by weak management, a number of poor investment decisions, and
poorly set tariff levels, as well as erratic tariff collections, we have
reached agreement on the introduction of an internationally recruited
technical partner to help manage EAGB for a period of 3 to 4 years,
starting mid-1989, to ensure that EAGB operates more efficiently and does
not remain a bottleneck to economic development. While generating capacity
no longer presents a problem, there remain significant managerial,
operational and financial issues. While RAGB tariffs currently cover all
operating costs for Bissau, this has been accomplished by an excessive
reliance on cross-subsidies from the higher consumers, mainly government,



- 40 -                           ANNEX IV
Page l2of 15
which do not always pay on time. A plan of action and a timetable to cover
improvements in both EAGB's management and financing has also been put in
place.
b.   Civil service reform
41.       During the second phase of the adjustment program, the
government expects to focus on the followings (a) improving its ability to
coordinate and manage the adjustment program; and (b) strengthening the
civil service, through updating pertinent legislation, improved training
and human resource management generally, reducing numbers and streamlining
the civil service structure, particularly the economic ministries.
42.       Currently, the National Commission for Economic Coordination and
Control, under the President, is the apex body overseeing the adjustment
program. To make the Commission more effective, a 'primus inter pares' has
been appointed as Minister of State for Economic Coordination to
orchestrate economic policy. The technical secretariat for the Commission
is being strengthened with technical assistance and support facilities to
better fulfill its task, and is expected to provide monthly flash'
reports, as well as quarterly progress reports, on economic performance
under the adjustment program. Specific measures are ongoing to strengthen
data collection and analysis of the main macro variables within Ministry of
Finance, National Bank and Ministry of Planning.
43.       The Ministry of Civil Service and Labor, with responsibility for
the major elements of civil service reform, is expected to continue
Implementation of the reduction in force program, started with Decree 13 of
1987. In 1988 some 1000 civil servants effectively left the payroll and
for 1989 a target of 1500 has been set. With a planned further net
reduction of 1000 civil servants in 1990, the civil service wore force will
have been reduced by some 4500 staff, about 27 percent, over a four-year
period. With the assistance of UNDP, the Ministry of Civil Service and
Labor is revising the Civil Service Statutes, which should be approved by
government by mid-1989, when the civil service census is also expected. In
addition, clearer personnel rules on entry, career progression and exit
from civil service will be put in place during 1989. Government is also
expected to establish a central personnel unit in this Ministry, to
administer the revised Civil Service Statutes and the central personnel
registry.
B.  Growth Prosuects and Financial Needs of the Program
a.   Growth prosnects
44.       The program is based on a considerable amount of adjustment
reflecting in part a continuation of the process begun under phase one of
the program and in part a response to the permanent deterioration in the
terms of trade. The current account deficit is projected to decline from
20 percent of GDP in 1988 to 13 percent in 1991, and the resource balance
to improve by 7 percent of GDP over the same period. In terms of domestic



- 41 -                           M= IV
Page 13of 15
absorption, this reflects a larger domestic savings effort, primarily the
turnaround of the government's current position from deficit to surplus,
and a modest trimming of the investment rate. On the external side,
barring further adverse movement in the markets for Guinea-Bissau's major
exports, it is expected that exports would continue to expand strongly,
leading to a progressive reduction in the trade deficit. We believe that
an average annual growth rate for exports of 20 percent over 1989-91 is
achievable, as such targets imply that many commodities -- fish, shrimp,
groundauts, and wood products -- would merely reachieve earlier export
volume levels. Bleak prospects for the international price of cashews,
which is expected to deteriorate again in 1989, further delay the
achievement of external equilibrium, and highlights the urgent need for
diversification. Meanwhile, appropriate exchange rate policy, combined
with import parity pricing, and the substitut',n of domestic for imported
rice, supported by measures to improve domestic self-sufficiency, are
expected to lead to a contraction of food imports in the short to medium
term.
45.       We believe that by sustaining the structural and stabilization
measures of the program and focussing increasingly on removing
institutional and policy barriers to growth, parti alarly in private
agriculture and fisheries, Guinea-Bissau is well placed to achieve an
average annual rate of growth of some 4-5 percent over the next few years.
This would ensure real per capita income growth, with real per capita
consumption also growing at an average of over one percent a year, thereby
achieving one of the targets of the Special Program of Assistance for
Africa. Agriculture is expected to maintain its strong showing, with an
average annual growth rate of 6 percent over the program period, while
fisheries will more than double in volume terms. Investment, including
private investment, is expected to grow at an average annual rate of
between two and a half and three percent, while the efficiency of
investment is also expected to improve as a result of the program. Real
import growth, including rice, is to average two to two and half percent
per year; excluding rice, import growth is forecasted at 5 percent average.
b.   Financial needs of the program
46.       As a result of the heavy burden of existing debt and the
imbalances in the economy, Guinea-Bissau will require continuing high
levels of external assistance and increased debt relief on concessional
terms for some years to come, if it is regularize its relations with
creditors and secure sufficient financing for the second phase of its
adjustment program. However, over the medium term the government intends
to increase self-reliance and reduce dependence on foreign credit.
47.       We have prepared a comprehensive medium term Policy Framework
Paper and financial strategy, in coordination with IDA and the IMF. The
strategy indicates substantial resource requirements in the short term, but
with a declining need for extraordinary assistance, consistent with a
viable balance of payments scenario in the medium to longer term.   For
1989-91, total financing requirements, including arrears, will reach



-42 -                            ANNE% IV
Page 14 of 15
approximately US$340 million. The authorities have asked IDA and UDNDP to
organize a Donors Meeting for Guinea-Bissau, to mobilize the resources
required to sustain the adjustment program. In light of the historical
record of financial assistance, some US$256 million over the 1986-88
period, it is realistic to assume that the estimated financial requirements
for the 1989-91 period will be met. A Paris Club meeting is scheduled for
June 1989, where the government will seek to secure the most favourable
rescheduling terms. Toronto terms applied to Guinea-Bissau's debt would be
enough to cover the financing gap over the 1989-91 period. However, these
terms would not reduce the debt burden to manageable proportions.
Consequently, to achieve the special program for Africa's objective of a
debtlservice ratio of no more than 25 percent, more favorable terms would
be required.
48.       Notwithstanding all government's efforts to implement a
comprehensive adjustment program, due to the heavy burden of existing debt
and the imbalances in the economy (both trade and debt service capacity
imbalances), Guinea-Bissau will require continuing high levels of external
assistance and increased debt relief for some years to come. As the
scheduled debt service is so high, hovering at about 100 percent over the
next three years, it would not be enough for the country to receive balance
of payments support for imports. Guinea-Bissau also needs the support of
the donor community to finance debt service or debt reduction if it is not
to slip again into arrears, and if it is to reduce the debt burden to
manageable proportions, i.e., substantially below the current ratio of
16:1.
C. Social Imnact
49.       The adjustment program is expected to continue to have a
significant positive impact on increasing the income of the poorest groups
In Guinea-Bissau, namely, small rural farmers. While we do not, as yet,
have hard data on the impact of the changiag economic environment on the
country's most vulnerable groups, under the UNDP-finAnced Social Dimensions
of Adjustment Program, we intend to carry out such data collection surveys
shortly. The government also intends to prepare, starting at end-1989, an
annual progress report on the social dimensions of adjustment and on
efforts to alleviate the main dislocations. A number of recent baseline
surveys of urban and rural households suggests that in terms of some of the
basic needs, such as an affordable, adequate foodbasket, as well as shelter
and employment opportunities, the rural population in Guinea Bissau is
better off than their urban counterparts. In addition, higher farmgate
prices and greater availability of imports have already increased the
welfare of many of the rural poor. Urban dwellers tend to do better in
terms of access to safe water, education and health facilities, although
some groups, particularly redundant government empleyees and the urban
poor, have been adversely affected in the initial phase of the program.
This is due to the shrinking size of the civil service, retrenchment in
most urban services and the drive towards full cost recovery, as planned
reductions in the current budget of the government are put into effect.



- 43 -                           ANNEX IV
Pagel5 of 15
50.       The Social and Infrastructure RehabiLitation Project, which is
closely interlinked with our adjustment program, addresses these issues in
some detail. This project, to be Implemented over the 19$9-92 period, is
expected to contribute to alleviating some of the adverse impacts of the
country's difficult economic conditions. The project. includes components
for urban infrastructure, sites and services for low-cost housing,
educational materials, supplies and equipment, health supplies and
equipment, reorientation unit for civil servants who have been or will be
dismissed from government services as a result of the SAP, and technical
assistance. The project's major urgency lies in its employment generation.
Project benefits would include rehabilitation and maintenance of urban and
social infrastructure which will lead to improved overall sanitary and
environmental conditions, an expanded supply of sites and services for low-
cost housing, increased quality of delivery of health and education
services, and support to a reorientation unit for assisting displaced civil
servants.
D.   Aid Coordination
51.       The Government will work closely with the donor and creditor
community to channel assistance in line with the country's highest priority
needs. In this regard, the Government will continue its policy of:
(a)  improving commumicaticas with the International community by
encouraging meetings )f donors in Bissau at least semi-annually,
with minutes to be F bsequently prepared for circulation to a
broader audience; and
(b)  strengthening the Ministry of Planning's key role in the process
of planning, preparation of the public investment program, and
supervision of the implementation of ongoing projects, including
a semi-annual review of project implementation.
Bissau, April 18, 1989
s/Pedro Godinho Gomes
Minister Governor
National Bank of Guinea Bissau
Bissau, Guinea-Bissau



-44-                                           ANNEX V
Po 1T 7
GUINEA-8ISSAU
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CRDIT
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
I. MACRO ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Actions a*ready taken by            Structural Adjustment Credit II   Monitoreble Actionu
CoverneWnt                          Action Program                    and Schedule
A. Exehano Rate Policy
Obiective:  Maintin a flexible exchange rate system.
1. Significant devaluation of      1. Continue flexible exchange       1. By effactiven.s:  none.
Guoinan peso, to maintain           rate policy, to maintain a
cempetitiveness of experts and    target spread of not more than       2. By asecond trench.: gap
*cuaeg  r use of   20 pereent between the official    with w ral1-1 " rk t not Gor
fotlalr,  "k*t    s ef t          and the parallel market             than 20x
exchange rates.
. By third tranche: gap wlth
parollel market not meor tian
2o.
S. Monetary Policy
ObictLive: (a) Allow growth In money and credit consistent with balance of payment, Inflation and
growth targets for economy; and (b) restrict access of central government *nd public
nterprlses t* credit, end expand private sector access to credit for productive
purpos".
1. Substantial lmprovements in    1. Implement satisfactory            1. By offectiveneos observe
monetary statistics, starting      money/credit policy during          the agroed second quarter
December 1W8?. Did not meet        1989-91.                            benchmarks on net d=mestic
1088 targets. As resuit                                                assets and on net credit to the
Inflation highor In 188 than      ^. Implement agreed timetable       government.
expe9td. Also as result,           for liquidating Government's
Government has established a       debt with National Bank.            2. By second tranche:
cm lttee to ensure credit                                              Implement the agreed flcal and
benchmorks be observed.            S. Improve commercial and           monetary progrm In 1989, and
development banking and credit    adopt *atisfactor  pram for
allocation.  Expand                1990, including (a) interest
availability of commercial         rate policy; and (b) export tax
banking servicos to rural          for cashews.
areas.
S. By third tranche: I plement
4. Continue flexible               the agreed fiscal and mon tary
adjustment of interest rates to    program In 1990, and dont
maintain positive real rates       inc puogr (a)
polticy; (b) *xpert tax for
cash.,.; and (c) tax and tarift
reforms.
C. Flscal policy
Objective: To simplify tox budget administration, broaden revenue base and reduce distortions.
1. Reduced some Import duties      1. Rationalize tax and tariff       1.  By effectiveness: None.
and most export taxes, except      structure.
on cashews.                                                            2. By second tranehes
2i Ellminsto preferential tax      rmplement t    itan  f reformen
treatment for duty free shops,     implement sot{sfctorily 1089
fiscal program; agre en 1l99
S. Abolish duty exemptions.        budget.
4. Achieve Import parity           3. By third trneche:
pricing for petroleum products,    implement satisfctorily 1990
and eltiminate all other price     fiscal program; agre  on 19i1
controls,                          budget.



re" 2 of 7
11. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM AND PROCESS
Actions alredy taken by              Structural Adjustment Credit TI   Monitorable Actions
Government                           Action Program                     and Schedule
Objective: Improve planning, execution, monitoring and evalustion of public oxpenditure program
particularly the Government a counterpart funds.
1.  Introduced better data          1. Irove Government's                1. By *ffectivonese: Nono.
collection re projects under        proje   evaluation cnpability.
implementation.                                                          2. By setond trunche:  *aree
2   Improve Government's            PIP for 1998, and *chtove
2.  Introduced tlghter controls    project monitoring capability,        satisfactory outcome for 1989.
on public Investment
programing.  They now require        .  Improve Government's             8. By third tranch.:
foesibility study by Ministry       capital expenditure budgoting        agree PIP for 1991 and *ahieve
Of Plan, a Ono objection' from      and control.                         satisfactory outcome for 19S0.
Uinistry of Finanee and
fpproval of National Comission
for Economic Coordinatlon and
Control.



-48-                                          ANNEX V
Page 3 tri
EU. ENcJAtOUI OROWTI
Acwtons  lredy takn by               yctu;l Adjustmet Credlt II   :00toral4 Actions
Government                         clon Progre                        nd Schodul
A. Trde and Price Liberalization
Objective:  Eliminate quantitative restriction. on import and lIberaliz  trade and prices.
A" A  IC i ornco of           ptotic Issuance of import          1. By effectivenes: None
import  Iq_es"or 75X of             cnm      tor non-potro e*u
Pco a1 1gnoe                          xlno faell Illporb  *xe udi n,  2.    8    y    -rnS 
jol     o         *      l99. u            e   .y second tr  eh;
(b) rIt!nate a    prIce
whi ph should be sold at import
parpty.
S. Aardculturf
Obetiv2    To otimiul  dotic,troduction Vy:.nlrnn
*) Ib ntnn   IVIR ca4etlt1vo conntc  opronenr
s nurth ra oi Ig bis   gainst *xports and improving efficiency and effectiveness of
institutiona support.
1. Annual Vupwrd adivsto1nt In   1. Continue Oor auycc he 1c fly eftectiveneset Nono.
prowuc r pr e-. to antan          export tx   ine : tx 
agr icus ture ync  ntiv s.                                           2. y second trench:  reud
ao"r :107tu    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~cgnyexpor taxl for 199  in*
2. Redormed rural development    2. Eliminate  griceulture price   *gree mnt with IIA.
projct*.                          c. By third trcnch.: red
a  Reinforced Govrmentr "          . Liberalizo imports.             cashiw export tax  or 1 M n
plannng capacty  wit h help of                                       *greement with DA.
IDA-financod PCaD   project.
4. Reducd cash" etport tax
to rog product on  d
C. Forestry
Objective: 3mprov  efficiency and  xport earnings of forestry sector paying attention to ecological
balance.
1. Imol mnted study to develop   1. lament action plan for          Nont
an aci on plan ttnanced by IDA-   optimal exploitation an
SPPF.                             rep en shmont of forest
rources.
2a   Prodnc- forM polley
action plan by *d18
S. Implettrstyplc
cetton plenftbyf*n6d-t191g   IIC



-47-                                            AEX V
Pe 4of 7
Actione already taken by            Stryctul Adjustmntt Crdit 1   Motorale  ions
Gowrnusnt                            lto  Progr                        and Schedul
0. Flshing
Objctl:  Inease revenuo to economy an  to Government from fishing sectr.
j. Reeotiated   =   liense.          .  I  plsnt    ion plan to         1. By effectIVeness:  Non.
aigtn         on *hips * tnnao-       prove e d         from
rnther than  Vaueo ot catch.          or                                                 n Dy    ches srt to
2   A  roved rom  of rforence    2  Launh action plan for                Is nftIee           giaTon,
for etudy/cti onoIan of ect.v    fisheries study.                     Ir consag contract and
funded by WDA SrpF.                8*c,tt nolto    a                   rglations.
or,p laldn oTnITSIactg 'a
asr G  t ls.
E. Private fsctor investment Prootion
Obl]t;lvo: Proo  11 a     uel  nd medum  nc lg Invn       art  lnrly In lmlotuitn*dopr
_______                adgmedumport19substitution adepr
ObeV tce   *nd reform commrcit *                                                 anlop  xtot n  sy
1.  Initiated Private sector        1. Implement revisd Invest-        None.
promot on compe gn.                 Mtt code .mprov   nvestnt
e *mate, Informn4t on.
2. By ond-189s *re on
terms  of  reeroence fr*tudy to
propos  rv Ilon* ln nt mnt
cfod and   prove Investment
F. Bankino Reform
Oblective: To lmprove efficitney and effectiveness of financala sector.
1.  $tudy or c~omTsrcalJ ntral    1       proe rwerdit allocatlon       None.
abnk ng        on n *  poicies *nd proe dure.
2. Sepratlon of accounts of         LnkI    W; (b) cre
National Bank bt wn central                       r       A,
and =oMercTnl a    nko               e      loth priate *ctor
nvov 0nt;and
InvoTrs.en b.& nk branches,
Tnelud ng mebT * branchs.
8.  Improv  functiloning of
devlop nt hank   tnd iatroduce
new po :iespro=edure.



-48-                                           ANNEX V
Pag.5 t r
IV. INSTI1UTIONAL REFORM
Actlons already taken by            Structural Adjustment Credit It   Moni orable Actions
Government                          Action Program                    and Schedule
A. Pubitc Enterprlse Reforn
Obiective: Reorganize and lmproy. diectitney of publTe ont rprses, nnd privetiazng public
enterprises engaged  n  iretty product  Ie                              po  tentil
1. Some public enterprise.         1. To lmplrment rrultsi$            1. By effectiveness:  None.
*lrery e e-">dop rt onsr egm ndt on  or sing Trom
prubeiad  centterprisso tudy, as   2. By second tranch.: Non.
2. Stuvy on remining public        *reed between  overnmet *nd
enteropl on to be completed        IDA.                                 . By third trenohe:
shorty.                                                                atisfnctoary progress in
2. To reform EAG8.                   rlementing public  nterpese
8.  Privantie ADP under *n         accordance with agree  action
a,cti Qn plan and timetable to be    plea.
dOWq alped with EC technical
ass * stance  action plan and
timetabl14o be*gr d oith IDA
4. To complete liquidation of
SOCOMIN.
B. Civil Service Reform
ObJective: Impro, efficiency and cost effectiveness of civil service.
I   Reduction In force of 165      1. Continua reduction In            None.
of civil service oi 15,100.        forcs in Ine w th budget's
ability to pay redundancy
2.   mproved salary and            packages.
cond Tions.
2.BY oarly-19S9 agreo on:
3. Improved training and human   2arget numbers for reduction In
resource development,              force during 1989.
S. By end-19i9: (a) Introduce
b,onus schem; (b) introduce
civil service registry; and
(C) ogrel  taros civIl service
numberT or 1I90
4. By end-1990l implement
comprehensive cfvTI service
rtform and agree target for
clv I service number for 1991.



49-                                         ANNEX V
V. SOCAL tWACT
_o_rnm_______________ __
Atlon* *Iredy tak n by            Stytu    d3u tret Cr dtt 11    !Ojlorblto
*ovrnmont                         SUMUPn rrogrgn                    *a w n dns
Obioctiv.: Pollcies to allelat, nga_tivt impct of the structural adjustment program.
1. Implamnted some employment    1. Starting vd-19 9, MOP w1il   None.
gnera ion mascures.                reparnnua  report on toe a*
Prepared SoCIal  Und
nfrastructure RehbilItation       2.  pd t  be    Ilno surv y of
Project.                           SAP impact an agree on ftrbher-
Msure to a1 leat soal
eo 'sof *d3uxtson
adjusmtment.
S. By *d-0S89   (a) implenent
SIRP  *nd (b) agree wth IDA on
fu~r measurs to *1leviate
socia1 cost otad #,ustnt
includng any change required
to Sm.
y qnd-108: *gre  with
ouA on rurt  r measure s4
alleviate Ioa! a    ete o,
adjustmenet, md mad    ny
*hnges to  i.      gan



-_ _                                          ANNE V
P a "7 -ofTy
VI. EXTERNAL DEBT MANAGEMENT
Actions already taken by           tructurpl Adju*tm"nt Credit It       -lImItaAction
wovornm nteAction Progr F                                          *na Sch     Aion
Objective: To rdc  the dbt servi1 burden on econoy by           intonot wa im        n ffi prcm
1. 1987 Paris Club concluded.    ILConclude nsotlations tor           Non.
2. R =    bt  sev ien to
m nas ab *  -e,    U
outstanding rnroBN
S. Bo *n-99sf)coeu
tlmelab - to eliminate arrears.
4  8y *nd-199  (a }continue
el gatean *rr nro, Including
orwree .t1i3and
; Xr ClC f n  Sations with



- 51 -
A*E  VI
TIE STATUS F AW   OUP C AICNS IN OUTIEA4ISSWAU
SATEMENT OF BANK LOUAS AID ID  CDOM  1/
(As of Mareh 51, 109S
Credlt        Fiscal
Numbr          Year       Borror                     Purp                     mt 2/ Undlsursd 8/
Two credits have bea fully disburse                                           15.80          0.16
1884-4lo 1988    OuineUises                Petroim .xplortlin II             18.10          9.87
1892-G        1984    Ou tns-iSsu          Illsu Port                        16.I           2.80
14783         1984    Oulnes-Siasu        R_ods I                            4.10          0.18
F818-G        1984    Guinl-B ---          Road U1                            4.11          9.01
1S11-W        1984    Ouinu_lsu            Technical Asslstance               9.16          9.08
18-4          1985    Gulneisu             Reconsrutlon wort                 20.41          6.01
A414-08        1986      iulne-  leu       SupplM.Reconst.Import              6.01          1.15
A420-GUt 1987           Gulnueiss           Structursl Adjustment              6.60          0.55
1798-3        1987    Ouines"sau           Strucural AdJustmet               10.16          0.47
1799.45       1987      Aulng-esu           gricultural Service               8.70          8.7s
10O1-03       108t7     Ouale issu         Pop, Health A Ntritlon             4.20          1.07
1914-3        1080    Ginea-les            Education                          4.ao          8.92
198l-WUS      1088    Gulwinm iOau         Technical Assistance U1            9.7t          9.04
Total         _110.80                                         24.81
of which has bee paid                             0.10
Total now outtanding                            110.10
Amount sold
of which ha been repid                            0.16
Total nm  held by IDA                           110.80
Total Undisbured                                              24.81
I/ The state of the projaet  lI sted tn this part ti decribed tn a separate report on *1I Dank/IDA-financed
projecte In execution, which Is updated twice yerly and crculated to the Executive  Directors on
April 80 and October 81. Thre are no IFC Investments in Gulna-Siesu.
2/ ID Credits after 1SM and Special Fund Credits are donoinated tn Special Drawlng Rights. U.S. dollar
amount In table are calculeted using exchang  rates prevailing at time of credit negotiations.
S/ Include the oxchang  rats adjustment.



.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   IB R D-    15779w ~15 7 79
S       E       N        E       G        A        L
LU.
1200                                                                                                                                                                 120-.
^, ,,8,                   . a                                                              /                           REULC  OF  GUNE-    xBISSAU
0 n : , U;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l:    w <                                     _ J 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
9t  /< i9jfmwi 72 J 57  REPM CA DA GUM -BISSAU
'(  .       4 ~~~.T  O   B  A/                                               -     
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-- r-.Xk |  6;i   -t12;2   ,e-0Po* Mudfl                                 b=
GUINEA                                                      I -                    .A2.  ,                                                                        4
esI$Au A F R I C A
' XC ::j,.r                                                                                           ID --  -  n  a  O  30  40  60  70  w
/  O3                  130_



