Page  1
                                         May 71991
His Excellency Manuel Santos
Ministerio da Economia e Financas
C.P. 67
Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Excellency:
         RE: GUINEA-BISSAU - Cr.  No. 2019 GUB
             Second Structural Adjustment Credit
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Second
Structural Adjustment Credit), dated June 29, 1989, between the
Republic of Guinea-Bissau (the Borrower) and the International
Development Association (the Association).  Further to the
discussions held with the representatives of the Borrower
regarding removing the financing of consultants from the
conditions of tranche release set forth in Paragraph 3 of Schedule
1 of the above-referenced Development Credit Agreement, we are
pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees to the
following amendments.
     1.   Paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 of the above-referenced
Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the
words "under Category 1 of paragraph 1 of this Schedule" after the
words "in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit .... "
     2.   Paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 of the above-referenced
Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the
introductory paragraph beginning "No further withdrawal or
commitment..." and ending "after a further such exchange of views"
and substituting therefor:
          "(b) No further withdrawal or commitment shall be
          made in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
          the proceeds of the Credit under Category 1 of
          Paragraph 1 of this Schedule after the aggregate of
          such proceeds for such Category 1 withdrawn following
          satisfaction of the conditions described in Paragraph
          3 (a) above shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
          5,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
          after a further such exchange of views: ....
     Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by
countersigning and dating the form of confirmation on the two
original copies of this letter provided and returning one
original, as countersigned, to us.  This amendment shall become
effective as of the date of receipt by the Association of this
letter duly countersigned by you.
                         Sincerely,
                         Edwin R. Lim
                         Director
                         Western Africa Department
                         Africa Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By
     Authorized Representative
Date: 4/7/91
