CREDIT NUMBER 2019 GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            J    \            ,1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2019 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            ?)4R      2       , 1989 between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 18, 1989 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports and services required during
such execution;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Minister for
Development Cooperation of the Netherlands a grant (the Dutch
Grant) in an amount equivalent to ten million Dutch Guilders
(DF 10 million) to assist in financing the Program;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (the USAID
Grant) in an amount equivalent to four million five hundred
thousand dollars $4,500,000) to assist in financing the Program;
' (D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the African
Development Fund (ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount
equivalent to [ten million Units of Account (UOA 10 million)] to
assist in financing the Program; and
(E) on. the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided to provide, in support of the Program, such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "BNG" means Banco Saional _A Guind-Bissau, the Central
Bank of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(d) "UGAB" means Unidade de Gest&o da Aj       A Balanca de
Pagamentos, the Management Unit for Balance of Payments
Assistance, established within BNG by Presidential Executive Order
of the Borrower, dated June 28, 1984; and
(e) "fiscal year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighteen million Special Drawibg Rights
(SDR 18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a). The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank in the name of BNG on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into,, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as the Association shall establish, The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i)   from the date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and


﻿-4-
(ii)   at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30
in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)   at such places as the Association shall reasonably
request;
(ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii)   in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions
or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing June 15, 1999 and ending December 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i)   the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and


﻿-5-
(ii)   the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment
of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BNG is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts UGAB with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $250,000 equivalent.


﻿-6-
ARTICGT III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than thirty days after the Effective Date,
open and maintain a counterpart funds account in BNG;
(b) deposit into such Counterpart Funds Account the local
currency generated from the sale of foreign exchange by BNG under
the Credit; and
(c) furnish to the Association, for its review and comments,
quarterly reports on the use of said counterpart funds in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-7-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, 'records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following'additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
(b) (i) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Program
(including the Dutch Grant, the USAID Grant and
the ADF Loan) shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreements
providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreements; and
(B) adequate funds required during the execution
of the Program are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of pqragraph
(b)(ii) of that Section.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has met during the
second quarter of FY 1989 the benchmarks on net domestic assets
and on net credit to the central Government as agreed with the
Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministdrio das Finangas
C.P. 67
Bissau
Guind-Bissau
Cable address:                     Telex:
MEF                            257 MEF Bl
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-10-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By II    &('L
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required during the execution of the Program and to
be financed out of such proceeds. The table below sets forth the
Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and ,he percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods                  17,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultants'            1,000,000        100%
services
TOTAL             18,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group    Sub-group                Description of Items
112                              Alcoholic beverages
121                              Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse


﻿- 12 -
GrouR    Sb-gr9u2                  Description of Items
122                               Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                              Radioactive and associated
materials
667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
718         718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated for nuclear
reactors
897         897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971          -                   Gold ,    non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,600,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1989;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;


﻿- 13 -
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 5,000,000 for petroleum products and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, SDR 3,600,000 for foodstuffs.
3.   (a) No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association:
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(ii) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3
to this Agreement have been taken and are
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) No further withdrawal or commitment shall be made after
such aggregate shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after a further such
exchange of views:
(i) with the further progress achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out of the Program; and
(ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 3
to this Agreement have been taken and are
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international
circulation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and
specified in the bidding documents."


﻿- 15 -
2.   (a) International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but
less than $2,000,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparisons of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers from at least three
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Section III, paragraph 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
(b) Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded through
direct contracting in accordance with Section III, paragraph 3.5
of the Guidelines.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or 4 of
this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Program,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
PartA:    Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3(a)(ii) of Schedule 1 As
this Agreement (Conditions for release of Second Tranche
of the Credit)
1.   Adjustment of the official exchange rate, in order to
maintain a target spread of not more than 20% between the official
and parallel market exchange rates.
2.   (a) Implementation by the Borrower of its fiscal and
monetary program for FY 1989 in accordance with targets agreed
with the Association.
(b) Formal approval by the Borrower of its fiscal and
monetary program for FY 1990, including: (i) an interest rate
policy; and (ii) adjustment of the overall export taxes for cashew
nuts, including direct,tax and handling fees, taking into account:
(A) expected production levels, (B) international cashew prices,
and (C) impact on government revenues.
3.   Enactment of the legal and administrative instruments
necessary to deregulate all retail prices, with the exception of
petroleum products, which would be maintained at financial import
parity levels.
4.   Implementation by the Borrower of an action plan agreed with
the Association to undertake the reform of the fisheries sector
taking into account the recommendations of the study carried out
by the Borrower and in accordance with a timetable agreed with the
Association.
PartD:    Actions referred to in paragraph 3(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Third Tranche)
1.   Adjustment of the official exchange rate in order to continue
to maintain a target spread of not more than 20% between the
official and parallel market exchange rates.
2.   (a) Implementation of the Borrower's fiscal and monetary
program for FY 1990 in accordance with targets agreed with the
Association.


﻿- 18 -
(b) Formal approval by the Borrower of its fiscal and
monetary program for FY 1991, including:
(i) an interest rate policy;
(ii) adjustment of the overall export taxes for cashew
nuts, including direct tax and handling fees,
taking into account: (A) expected production
levels, (B) international cashew prices, and
(C) impact on government revenues; and
(iii) tax and tariff reforms.
3.   Maintenance of full price liberalization, with the exception
of petroleum prices, which would continue to be sold at financial
import parity levels.
4.   (a) Implementation of the action plan agreed with the
Association for the reform of the public sector.
(b) Implementation of the action plan agreed with the
Association for the reorganization and rehabilitation of EAGB.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,


﻿- 20 -
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence


﻿- 21 -
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


