Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFF1CIAL USE ONLY
J 1;, f ( i . (   Y                                           Report No. 10162
-r ':i    11'.  (  1 {;^     "i.-  j   ;   >: f i   ' )
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGAM
(CREDIT 1711-SO/A20-SO)
DECEMBER 13, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Abbreviations
ADC       Agricultural Development Corporation
AIP       Agricultural Inputs Program
ASAP      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
CG        Consultative Group
CSD       Central Statistics Department
ENC       National Commercial Agency (Ente Nazionale Commercio)
GOS       Government of Somalia
HASA      Hides and Skins Agency
IFPRI    International Food Policy Research Institute
SOMPET  National Petroleum Agency
ONAT    Tractor Hire Agency (Organizzazione Nazionale Agricultura
Trattore)
PIP       Public Investment Program
PR        President's Report
SFA       Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa
SJF       Special Joint Financing
USAID    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectcetaI
Opc.amoK Evalkatkn
December 13, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO T   EXECUTIVE  IRECTORS AND  E PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report or, Somalia - Agricultural
Sector Adustment Program_(Credit 1711-SO/A20-Sg)_
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Somalia - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (Credit
1711-SO/A20-SO)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.   No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance   I
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJCTCOMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTUR   0M ADJUST                                O
(Cr.171 1/a SO)
Table of Conent
Preface    .      ....................................................                          i
Evaluation Summary ........................   iii
PART I - PROJECTr REVIEW  FROM  BANKCS PERSPECTIVE  .......                            ............    1
INTRODUCION ........... .1
ECONOMIC AND SECrOR BACKGROUND  ......................1............ 
Begnning of the Crisis .........................................  1
Early Efforts to Achieve Stabilization and Adjustment .........             ...............   2
The Government's Adjustment Program in 1985 ............                .................   2
Agricultural Polcy Refom and Sector ssues ................                ...............   3
Role of the Bank ........................................    4
Agriculture Sector Policy Operations  ................            ...............   S
Investment Operations .                                                                 5
AGRICULTURAL SECITOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (ASAP.                                                          6
Origin and Objectives ..............................................                            6
PoUcy Actions Envsaged Under the Program  ...............................   7
Implementation ....................
Macroeconomic Reform ...................  8
Exchange Rate Management and Foreign Exchange Auctions ..... ..   9
Interest Rate Adjustment ............... ...................  10
The Private Sectorand Price Policy  .............             ...................  12
Distribution of Petroleum Products ...........................  12
DieselFuelPricing  .......................................  13
Grain PriceSupports ......................................  13
Food Aid Management ....................................  14
HidesandSkins Makedng .................................  14
ONAT Cost Recovery .....................................  15
Public Investment Program  .         ................................  17
Strengthening Institutions Responsible for Reform  ........ .............  18
Conditionaty ......................................                                            18
Covenants                 .............................. 18
Second Tranche Release Conditions ...................               .............  18
HEdesand Sins  .......................................  19
AgricultralPolicy ......................................    19
Interest Rates ......................................  19
ONAT RentalCharges ....................................   19..
Assessment of Second Tranche Compflance                     .        .         19
Prourementand Disbursement ......................................    20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Procurement ................ ................ ...............           20
Disburements ........................ .. .........  20
Disbuisement by Categones . , . ........................    ..    20
Imports of xyoods  ............ .....                            20
Inports ofFuel ...                                               22
Imports by Ministries ..  .    ........................... 22
TechnicalAssistance ....................................  22
Cofinanc'mg   .. .. . .... ... .. . . . . . . . . .. ..    .     . 22
Technical Assissnie.t .....................                                    22
Ministry ofFinancea .............22
Mintryof National Planning .      . .. ... .. . ..  .. ... .. . . .... ....... 22
hinistry of Agricuture.......................                           23
Accounts and Audits             ......     ..     .. ................... 23
ITHE     A              .......... .. OO.** 23
Achievements and Shortcomings               .       .............. 23
Government Commitmentm.e. . .. . .. .. .....                            24
Ecwnomic Peoromance   .             .......... 25
Social Impact ....     ...............................                         26
LESSONS LEARNED .............  27
PART I -PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSEPCTIVE .....29
List of Annees
Annex1       -      Credit Data
Annex 2      -      Macroeconomic Indicators
A-ex 3       -      Sources of Funds for Foreign Exchange Auctions
Annex 4      -      Results of Foreign Exchange Auctions
AnnexS       -      Summary of Status of Covenants
Annex 6      -      Preliminary Training Program for Staff of the Central
Department of Statistics
List of Fi ures
Figure 1     -      Annula rates of Inflation (1980-1990)
Figure 2     -      Trends in Exchange Rates



PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
SOMALI
~JOULTURAL SECTOR A2JUST[MENPRGA
(Cr. 1711-SGIA20-SO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program in Somalia, for which Credit 1711-SO and African Facility Credit
A20-SO in the amounts of SDR 26.4 million and SDR 28.7 million respectively were
approved on June 19, 1986. Cr. A20-SO was fully disbursed and 3 balance of about
US$12,000 remains in Cr. 1711. The credit account cannot be closed because the political
turmoil in the country has hindered the reconciliation of the Special Account.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country
Department HI of the Africa Regional Office. Part II, Project Review from the
Borrower's Perspective cannot be obtained because of the current political and security
situation in Somalia.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia on the Prwsident's Report; the Credit
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and Borrower; and
intemal Bank memoranda.



PROJECr COMPLETION RELPORT
SOMALLA,
AGRICULURAL SECrOR AI)JUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Cr. 1711LA20-SO)
Evaluation SuammaKy
Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP) in Somalia was approved in June
1986 following commitments by the Government to sustain a stabilization and adjustment program
negotiated with the IMF. The objective of ASAP was to support the macroeconomic program, to
foster the growth of the private sector and to strengthen institutions associated with economic and
policy reform. ASAP became a central focus for the Bank's dialogue with the Somali Govermnent
and provided important support for the Fund's program.
2.    ASAP achieved its objectives for about a year, but after that was virtually suspended for
another year, and then ended by achieving more than expected. In the meantime, however, the
Government's credibility and the economy had suffered severe setbacks from which there has so
far been no real recovery. In general it can be said that ASAP ultimately achieved most of its
structural objectives, but since the stabilization program veered severely off track at various times,
the expected growth and investment in the economy did not materialize. Therefore overall the
achievements of ASAP can only be regarded as unsatisfactory. IDA approved a second ASAP in
June 1989 but since the fail of the Government in December 199C, all operations in Somalia have
been suspended.
Stabilization Pram
3.    The IMF Stand-by arrangement which had been approved in early 1985 was aimed at
stabilization and improved resource allocation. The program under this arrangement was only
partially implemented and there was a period during 1986 when it was off track. Nevertheless, the
Government brought the Fund's program back on track in mid 1986 and soon thereafter ASAP
was approved. The key measures to achieve stabilization were not, however, achieved. In mid
1987 the Fund approved another Stand-by arrangement.
4.    The economy increased its rate of growth following the start of ASAP (about 7 percent
during 1987 and inflation moderated substantially. But the complementary improvements in
revenue and reduction in the budget deficit were not achieved. The most important shortfall in
Government performance was the lack of control over credit to Government parastatals and the
private sector. This lack of control over credit resulted in a subsequent jump in inflation during
1988 and 1989 and a sharp depreciation of the market exchange rate.
5.    The authorities had underestimated the damage being done by the lax control over credit
and its fundamental role in causing inflation and depreciation of the exchange rate. These trends
soon became a political issue. The regular foreign exchange auctions, which were the mechanism
for disbursement of the ASAP credit, and by that time also the instrument for unification of the
exchange rate were blamed for the inflation and devaluation. The Government cancelled the



- iv -
foreign exchange auctions and abandoned many other aspects of the program in September 1987.
It was not until mid 1988 that the Fund and the Government reached understandings on revised
economic and financial policies. Later that year disbursements from ASAP for the import of
goods was resumed, but the economy had in the meantime suffered from an inflation rate which
had reached as high as 100 percent and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. Also GDP growth
had become negative during 1988.
Implementation
6.    During the implementation of ASAP the Government continued to allow free trade in the
grain sector. This had the impact of stimulating growth in agricultural production which was in
contrast to the trend in the rest of the economy. In addition the Government agreed to the
1econtrol of the domestic trade in hides and skins. This was a more limited adjustment than IDA
had sought at the time of the second tranche release, but the dialogue on this issue had an impact
and the Government agreed later to the complete decontrol of the industry.
7.    Structural changes in the import and distribution of petroleum products did not progress as
expected under ASAP. SOMPET, the Government fuel trading parastatal, and the Govermment-
backed fuel distribution cooperative continued to hold a dominant position in the fuel business.
Only some of the project entities and a few private enterprises were involved in the limited import
and distribution of petroleum products.
8.    Trade in non-injectable veterinary drugs was to be pursued during the ASAP credit.
There is visible evidence that this occurred, although the legal instruments for the liberalization of
trade in these drugs were not promulgated before the credits were closed.
9.    The structure of interest rates was not adjusted adequately in line with changes in the
inflation rate. The Government argued that short term interest rates as high as 50 percent had
already reduced the rate of investment and higher rates would further reduce incentives to invest.
10.   There was both good and bad news in respect to cost recovery for tractors rented by
ONAT (the Government tractor and machinery hire agency). On the one hand a study of ONAT
operations financed by ASAP led to a substantial restructuring of ONAT operations and cost
consciousness; on the other hand complete cost recovery had not yet been achieved by the time
the credits were closed.
11.   A restructuring .of the Government's grain and food marketing parastatals was the subject
of a study under ASAP. Although delayed, a study was completed which set out the
Government's views on the restructuring of ADC and ENC. These recommendations were
followed up during the second ASAP.
Impact
12.   The impact of ASAP on the Somali economy was weakened because of the inability of the
Government to adhere to the macroeconomic program. In particular, the Government was not
able, or prepared to control the flow of credit to parastatals and the private sector. Its
performance on structural measures was weak until the closing phases of the credit when
substantial reforms were announced. In general the Goverment lacked political credilbility; this
resulted in a lack of confidence in the future of the economy which in turn had a depressing
impact on private investment.



13.   A continuing benefit from ASAP, despite the lapses in adherence to policy measures, was
that it gave the Bank and otlher donors a basis for a vigorous dialogue with the Government o3n
policy issues. This dialogue appeared to have had a substantial impact reflected and is in the
Government's announcements on major policy changes in early 1989.
LesMsons
14.   There were three important lessons learned during the implementation of ASAP. Eig  a
credit such as ASAP will not be successful unless the Government has "ownership" of the p:)licy
objectives. Second, crucial policy conditions should be negotiated "up front" before the creclit is
approved. Third, there should be a close relationship between the Bank and the IMF durin.g the
preparation and supervision of an adjustment credit to ensure that the macroeconomic prol!,ram is
being implemented. Finally, it is clear that unless the macroeconomic program is being adequately
implemented, especially with respect to stabilization, structural changes in the economy will have
only a limited impact on growth. These lessons were incorporated into the preparation andl
supervision of the second AS-iP.



PROJECT COP              REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PRO.GRAM
(Cr.1711/A20SO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    In the 1980s the Goverrment of Somalia (GOS) began a stabilization and adjustment program
which also involved structural policy reforms with special emphasis on measures in the dominant
agricultural sector. Reports which describe and analyze the Government's actions, policies and
challenges in the economy as a whole and the agricultural sector were prepared by the Bank between
1985 and 1987.1/ The Bank first i7-troduced policy-based lending in Somalia in 1985 through the
Agricultural Inputs program (AIP) in support of the Government's economic adjustment program. By
then Somalia had come quite a way in liberalizing its economy from the earlier controls under
"scientific socialism". The AIP was followed up by the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(ASAP) in 1986. This was subsequently followed in mid 1989 by the second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program.
2.    This Project Completion Report for ASAP summarizes in Section II the economic and sectoral
background to this credit, the Goverinment's adjustment efforts and the Bank's role in support of this
adjustment. The objectives and implementation of the credit are examined in Section III. The final
section provides an evaluation of Government and Bank performance and points out some lessons
learned under ASAP. The Govermnent did not provide a completion report to IDA. This report
could not be submitted to the Gov2rnment for comment because there was no de facto Government in
Somalia when if was completed.
II. ECQONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Befning-of- the, Crisis
3.    Following a major border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977n78, Somalia experienced a number of
serious economic and financial crises in the face of stagnating production. Because of a combination
of policy-related and exogenous factors (erosion of incentives under pervasive government controls;
mismanagement of economic and financial policies; an under-funded and inefficient public sector; the
drought of 1974/75) outpiut growth barely exceeded the 3 percent annual increase in population, so
that the average annual growth of GDP per capita was virtually nil during the 1970s. Underlying the
stagnation of per capita GDP was a sluggish growth of agricultural production due to a number of
1/    Discussed in greater detail in project documents, and in the following economic and sector
reports: Bank Report No. 5584-SO, "os Economic Recovery and Goh",
August 1985; Bank Report No. 6542-SO, "Somalia              Develonmn  an
ediuMT.Qra.=rQm A", February 10, 1987; and Bank Report No. 6131-SO, "'ma1iO.
Agiltural Souy: Main Re:ort ad Srategy, December 30, 1987.



major factors: (a) fragile physical environment for agriculture with unreliable supplies of water
vesources, extensive but as yet not fully productive arable land, overstretched grazing land; (b)
inadequate producer incentives; (c) unstable external markets and prices of livestock and other export
crops; (d) inadequiate supply anid use of important agricultural inputs such as fertilizer, improved
seeds, and veterinary drugs; and (e) inadequate delivery of critical agricultural support services such
as research, extension and animal health. In addition, steep increases in defence expenditures and the
resultant large budget deficits financed by Central Bank credit fueled domestic inflation and generated
large balance of payments deficits from 1978 onwards.
4.    The external current account deficit ro:e sharply (from about US$100 million in 1977 to over
US$250 million in 1979) and was no longer sustainable with the earlier levels of grants and
concessional loans. Moreover, capital inflows decreased, and grant aid dwindled in 1978 and 1979,
as aid from the USSR ceased before other donors stepped up their assistance. The second oil price
hike of 1979/80 compounded Somalia's financing problems. Somalia's recourse to some commercial,
nonconcessional loans, and short-term balance of payments support from Arab and other international
organizations raised the coamtry's external debt from about US$300 million in 1977 to about
US$1,200 million in 1983, and debt service obligations increased from US$5 million to US$60
million, while arrears began to accumulate.
Early   rts to Achieve Stabilization and Adiustment
S.    Beginning in 1981, the Government decided to introduce policy and institutional reforms
towards improving incentives, liberalizing the economic system from extensive government controls
and correcting policy-induced distortions that led to grossly inefficient resource use and stagnation of
output in the 1970s, and to external and internal financial imbalances since the late 1970s. The
reform measures, mainly comprising exchange rate adjustments, fiscal and monetary restrainit, and de
facto elimination of Government monopoly of grain purchases, and livestock marketing, generated
some recovery in the economy especially in agricultural production and exports during 1981-83.
These changes also led to increased external aid mobilized through a Consultative Group process.
6.    The Government's medium term recovery program for 1984-86 called for improvement of
macroeconomic management through fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies and further
liberalization of agricultural pricing and marketing and encouragement of the private sector.
However, economic recovery and financial stabilization suffered a serious setback in 1984 due to
sharply reduced livestock exports, and the Government's failure to implement some of its policy
reform measures including devaluation and financial restraint. Inflation reached 92 percent in 1984
and external debt service arrears continued to increase reaching US$214 million at end 1984.
7.    In response to the deteriorating situation, the Government adopted an adjustment program and
tried to implement policy changes during 1985 and 1986.
The Govermen's Adjustme  PRogram in 1985
8.    The adjustment program initiated in 1985 had the objectives of (i) stabilizing the economy by
reducing aggregate demand through reductions in the budget and balance of payments deficits; and (ii)
improving resource allocation and productive efficiency by reforming price policy and the incentive
structre. The program was supported by a new IMF Stand-by Arrangement in early 1985. In the
fomnulation of this program Bank staff were closely involved with staff from the Fund to ensure
complementarity of stabilization and structural adjustment measures.



3 -
9.    The main elements of the stab-lization program were to increase reveniue by improving
collection of existing taxes, especially import tariffs, .imit government expenditure, constrain the size
of the public investment program to available concessional financing, limit credit expansion and
pursue a flexible exchange rate policy.
10.   The main elements of the Government's structural adjustment program were liberalization of
trade and prices, reform of agricultural marketing, and reform of public enterprises and the banking
system. TMe last two were longer term objectives.
11.   A large devaluation of the Somali shilling became effective January 1, 1985, and a free
foreign exchange market for most non-government transactions was also established. Almost all price
controls were dismantled de jure. Most controls with respect to trade and current payments abroad
were removed. Licensing requirements for most import and export transactions were abolished de
jure. Furthertnore, traders were permitted to export and import some goods previously controlled
exclusively by the Government. The exceptions were certain commodities which, for reasons of
public policy, were either prohibited or subject to prior approval. Exporters were required to
surrender 35 percent of export proceeds at the official rate and allowed to use the remainder in the
free ma-ket. This provided incentives for exports, and access to foreign exchange for the private
sector. In agriculture, liberalization of crop prices and marketing was largely accomplished with
resultant increses in production of maize end sorghum (main domestic cereals), bananas (main export
crop) and sugarcane.
12.   Overall, the Government's adjustment program for 1985 constituted a bold attempt towards
fostering a more market-orienited economy for financial stabilization, resource use efficiency and
growth, and constituted a significant departure for the strategy and policies of the 1970's. At a
special Consultative Group meeting in January 1985, and at the Second Consultative Group meeting
in November 1985, donors commended the program and pledged quick-isbursing assistance to
support Somalia's balance of payments, so that the economy's essential import needs including
consumption requirements and inputs for maintaining and increasing (especially agricultural)
prod ntion were adequately met. However, Somalia's stabilization and adjustment efforts were
unsteady and financial support from the Stand-by arrangement with the IMF could not be utilized for
several months in late 1985 and early 1986 due to noncompliance with performance criteria. The
Fund program was on track again in mid 1986. Despite the past "stop-go" reform efforts by the
Somali govermnent, there was confidence that Somalia had committed itself to a stabilization and
adjustment program. It was in this light that the Agricultural Sector Adjustnent Program (Credit
1711-SO) was appraised in February 1986, negotiated in April 1986, and submitted to the Board in
June of the same yer.
Aricutua  Poliey Reform and Sector Isses
13.   Several reform measures which the government had taken even before 1985, especially
liberalization of pricing and marketing of crops and exchange rate adjustments, improved production
incentives and led to increase agricultural output. The growth of agricultural production during 1981-
85 had averaged about 5 percent per year; this was much better than the 1970s when the average rate
was 0.4 percent per annum. However, there were still major constraints to sustained agricultural
growth:
*   There were important areas in agricultural pricing and marketing which remained to be
liberalized in order to provide incentives for output and increased exports through the



-4-
participation of the private sector. One such area was trade in hides and skins, and in
frankincense and myrrh where existing public sector monopoly powers controlled
domestic and export marketing.
* Government control on the import, pricing and distribution of peeroleum products was
hindering efficient pricing and distribution as the agencies involved sought to maximize
their monopoly powers.
* The subidization of tractor services by ONAT (the Governent tractor hire agency) and
its inefficient operations led to considerable losses and created obstacles to entry of
private sector investment in tractor services.
*   While ADC (the Government grain prw1urement and distribution agency) monopoly was
broken in 1983, and its minimum buying prices for maize and sorghum were generally
b,;.tween import and export parity, ADC was wek and inefficient in carrying out its
market support function.
--   Management of food ai needed improvement to ensure that producer incentives were
not reduced and that the benefits of food aid were adequately captured and equitably
distributed. The need for ENC (the parastatal responsible for Goverunent food imports
and distribution) was also being questioned.
*   Subsidized markeing of ggriculturA inuts remained an important issue to be resolved.
While private traders imported inputs under AEP and other commodity import programs,
there were still only a small number of private sector distribution networks for
agricultural inputs. ADC and ONAT remained the largest providers of a full range of
inputs and machinery services, usually at subsidized prices. In addition fertilizers, seeds
and veterinary drugs received through donor commodity input programs were largely
distributed through government ministries (e.g. Agriculture and Livestock); this
distribution was often at less than free market prices. Without the departure of
Government involvement in input marketing, private sector equipment and input
dealerships were slow in getting established. To encourage private sector investment in
distribution inputs and services, Government needed to go further than legalize entry into
the market as it had done, but also to eliminate subsidized pricing and marketing by
Government ministries and parastatals.
Rtol gf thw Bnk
14.   Prior to 1985, Bank lending to Somalia consisted entirely of investment projects. Over thirty
percent of total lending was for agriculture. Projects in general, and agricultural projects in
particular, experienced problems in implementation, often due to poor design and lack of local
currency funds from the budget. The Bank reached agreement with Government to restructure
several ongoing Bank-financed projects in the mid 1980s because they were not successfiil as
originally formulated. While the restructuring of projects was important to their success, it was
increasingly evident to the Bank that economic reforms towards liberalization of prices and markets,
and improvement in macroeconomic management and financial discipline were essential for Somalia's
recovery and sustained longer term development as well as for the effectiveness of external
assistance.



-  -
15.   The Bank's new strategy for assisting Somalia's agricultural and economic development was
supportive of the Government's policy orientation to improve efficiency of resource use through
greater reliance on the market mechanism and the encouragement of the private sector. The Bank's
economic and sector work showed the need for economic reform, and provided analytic inputs for a
dialogue with the Government and for the work of the Consultative Group for Somalia, which the
Bank initiated. The Bank collaborated with the Government in the preparation and review of the
periodically updated Public Investment Program (PIP) at the aggregate and sectoral levels,
collaborated in reviews with the government and donors on major issues in agriculture, carried out
sector work and opened a dialogue on public enterprise reform, and provided assistance (in
collaboration with the Fund) to improve macroeconomic management. The Bank's analytic work
mentioned earlier 2/ showed that improving macroeconomic management is necessary for
sustaining appropriate incentives for agricultural production and exports, and for making resources
available for the rehabilitation and improved utilization of agricultural resources and related
infrastructure. This led to a greater emphasis in the dialogue between Government and the Bank on
the need to improve macroeconomic and sector policies. The Bank mobilized donors to provide
adequate and appropriate assistance in support of the economic reform program for adjustment and
growth, while its investment projects emphasized rehabilitation and improved utilization of existing
capacities.
(a) Agricuilture Sector Policy Operations
16.   As the Government began to implement, albeit in a faltering way, far-reaching reforms to
liberalize the economy and improve efficiency of resource use, the Bank moved towards sector
lending operations in support of these objectives, and to provide the Government with quick-
disbursing support to finance the resource gap during a period of acute financial difficulties. The
improved policies in 1985 led to the Agricultural Inputs Program (Credit No. 1612-SO) approved in
1985. That credit had been narrowly focussed on agriculture sector issues and contained few policy
conditions. The need to build on the process started under AIP and to broaden the perspective was
recognized and as a result, the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program made up of an IDA credit
(1711-SO) and an African Facility credit (A-20-SO) were negotiated with the Government. The
credits were approved by the Board in June 1986. The Bank's sector work underpinning the issues in
ASAP was summarized in the Agricultural Sector Survey which was based on the reports of several
Somali-led task forces. 2/ Other relevant analyses of sector issue are contained in various grain
marketing studies, PIP Reviews, and country economic memoranda. 4/
(b) Investmnt Operations
17.   At the time ASAP was approved, the portfolio for Somalia contained 13 projects financed by
the Bank and valued at $247 million. These projects included IDA credits in livestock, rainfed
agriculture, agricultural extension, port modernization and power rehabilitation. They continued to
provide investment support to help the economy take advantage of the reforms implemented by the
Government.
ZI See footnote 1.
I/  "S,malia Aculturl-Sctr Sur. Main Ror a S=Qge.", op. cit.
{I  See for example "Somalia: Towads Ecnomic Rver and GroWh", op. cit.



-6-
III.     CULTIJRATL        RDJUSiMENT PR RM (ASAP)
18.   The Agriculikural Sector Adjustment Program was conceived and negotiated as a follow up to
the Agricultural Inputs Program to provide continued support to the Government's stabilization and
adjustment program. At the second Coinsultative Group (CG) meethig held in November 1985,
donors had commended the Government for the adjustment measures it had taken, and supported the
Government's development strategy that emphasized medium term public investment mainly for
rehabilitation of existing capacity, and economic policy reform to improve resource use efficiency and
promote the private sector. It was stressed at the CG meeting that the Government's success in
sustaining implementation of the adjustment and reform program would depend on adequate and
timely financial assistance from donors. While at the time of the CG meeting, the Government's
program under the 1985 Stand-by arrangement with the IMF was still off track, in April 1986 the
Govermment paid its arrears to the Fund, and the 1985 Stand-by program continued in 1986 and
beyond. The Government also expressed its intent: to strengthen the adjustment program through,
inter alia, gradual unification of the exchange rate, ensuring positive real interest rates on deposits to
mobilize resources, and raising prices of petroleum and petroleum products to full import parity and
allowing the private sector to import and distribute petroleum products.
19.   ASAP, which was approved by the Board on June 19, 1986, became effective on August 25,
1986. E/ It had a number of objectives:
(a) support the        _ nomic refos currently being undertaken by the Borrower;
(b) assist the Borrower to develop and enlarge the priciaion of tset in the
economy including an improved supply and distribution of agricultural inputs; and
(c)   e e instit    responsible for carrying out the economic and policy reforms in
the agricultural sector.
20.   The largest component of the credits was for the financing of the inport of goods, subject to a
negative list. Entitlements for foreign exchange were purchased by importers at foreign exchange
auctions. Another large component was fuel to be imported by SOMPET, the Government's
parastatal. The other smaller components were for the import of goods by Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock and Fisheries. There was also a technical assistance component directed at institution
building.
I/ The ASAP credit was financed with two credit agreements, namely an IDA credit (1711-SO) and
an Africn Facility credit (A-20-SO), which were, except for Schedule 1, the same credit
agreements.



-7 -
21.   The components to be financed by ASAP are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: COMPONENTS OF ASAP CREDIT
(SDR million)
African
Components                                      IDA    Facility  Total
Imports of Goods
Public and private sector enterprises       17.6      19.9     37.5
Fuel imports by SOMPET                       5.9       5.9     11.8
Imports by Government
Agricultural Ministries                      1.5       2.9      4.4
Technical Assistance
Ministries of Finance, Agric. and Planning   1.4       -        1.4
26.4     28.7 
22.  The IDA and African Facility credits were disbursed in the same manner; the credit agreements
were identical. In addition to these credits, a grant of £5 million under the Special Joint Financing
Facility was made available by the British Government for the financing of goods imports by the
private and public sectors. Also the Swedish Government contributed Swedish Kroner 2 million to
the costs of the statistics technical assistance component in the Ministry of National Planning.
PQlicy Actions Envisaged Under the Program
23.  The policy actions to be achieved under ASAP were both macroeconomic and sectoral. The
macroeconomic -rogram was defined in the context of a program under the Stand-by Arrangement
between the Gove-rnment and the IMF. A basic objective of the ASAP credit was to support the
macroeconomic reform being undertaken. ASAP contained covenants and conditions (foreign
exchange auctions, interest rates) related to some aspects of the macroeconomic program. The
foreign exchange auctions, while they provided the main disbursement mechanism for ASAP funds,
also assisted in financing the foreign exchange gap in the macroeconomic program. The main
elements of ASAP, however, were the agriculture sector programs aimed at improving price policy
and marketing, strengthening the role of the private sector in input supply, and improving the public
investment program. ASAP also included a small, but important, technical assistance program as
well as resources for the import of goods for the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries.
24.  Overall, implementation of ASAP was erratic, unsteady and rather unsatisfactory. While the
conditions of effectiveness were adopted without much delay, the Government's commitment to the
reform measures for increasing liberalization envisaged in the program were not sustained as
vigorously as envisaged when the credit was negotiated. Implementation was frequently confronted
with difficult problems of political economy, such as the determination of vested interests to retain
power over parastatals and agriculture marketing. Eventually, however, substantial structural
adjustment was achieved before the closing date. The following sections review the most important
implementation issues in relation to the main objectives of the credit and its covenants.



-8 -
(a)   MacrEonomic R-efom
25.  The macroeconomic reform program was adopted in the context of a Stand-by Arrangement.
The program was heavily oriented towards stabilization, reduction of the budget deficit and the
achievement of positive interest rates. A central theme of the Stand-by Arrangement was exchange
rate reform. The main shortfall in performance under the Stand-by Arrangement was a lack of
control of credit. The ceilings on credit under the program were regularly pierced. 6/ This larger
credit flow created much stronger demand pressures in the economy and at the foreign exchange
auctions than envisaged in the program. As a consequence inflation could not be brought under
control as rapidly as planne1 although it was to an extent mitigated by the increased supplies of
imports financed through the ASAP foreign exchange auctions, together with the steady growth of
grain production (see Figure 1). Other aspects of the macroeconomic program had also been
inadequately implemented. Revenues remained low (around 6 percent of GDP). Expenditures were
not under control and as a result the budget deficit (excluding grants) increased from 23.5 percent of
GDP in 1986 to 29.3 percent in 1987, and dropped to a level of 22.9 percent in 1988 (see Annex 1).
As inflation declined during the first part of the ASAP implementation period, interest rates did move
towards positive levels. But government's continued recourse to the financing of the deficit through
the banking system in late 1987 and 1988 (see para. 29) led to rapid inflation, and when the ASAP
credit closed interest rates were negative to a large extent. Exchange rate management and interest
rates which were specific objectives of the credits are discussed in the next sections.
Figure 1
INFLATION (1980-1990)
220-
210
200
170-
153-
140-
120-
120-
1300
70-
50-
40-
230
1980 1881 1982 198o ISH 1985 1988 1987 1s98 le9 1990
YEARS
0 CONS. PRICE IN)EX
{/   The subsequent data collected by the IMF confirmed the lack of credit control.



-9 -
26.  Exchange R      nagement  d Foreign Exchange Auction. The program envisaged
developing an enlarged private sector participation in supplying and distributing agricultural inputs
and providing much needed foreign exchange for the economy through an auction system, so that all
potential importers would get an opportunity to purchase foreign exchange at rates determined in the
auction.
27.  Although there were efforts by Government officials at first to influence bidders at the
auctions, the foreign exchange auction system was very well prepared and managed by the Central
Bank and the Ministry of Commerce. In fact, a major achievement of the program was the successful
implementation of 25 fortni_htly foreign exchange aions beginning September 1. 1986 and _nding
S2etember 16. 1987. For over a year an important source of foreign exchange was available to
traders at a realistic rate and in a non-discriminatory fashion (and without administrative selection) for
importing a wide range of goods (except those included in a small negative list). The success of the
auctions also encouraged other donors (Italy and the US) to contribute funds to the auctions. The
Government also contributed, although it was a relatively small amount (see Annex 2).
28.  The exchange rate at the auctions changed from about So.Sh. 117 to US$1 in September 1986
to So.Sh. 160 to US$1 in September 1987, or a nominal depreciation of the Somali Shilling by about
37 percent in one year (see Annex 3). The price of the US dollar in Somali Shillings at the auctions
fluctuated between 75 and 90 percent of the price in the free market (i.e. the market in which foreign
exchange earnings retained by exporters could be purchased by importers - see Figure 2) 7/. The
percentage was low when goods in strong demand (e.g., sugar, urban construction materials, food)
Figure 2
EXCHANGE RATES
SsPrEw.S1 1996 TO MARc4 1"9
Soo
403 
400-
(    350_ 
250
AuCT O N I"EM
ca Aucr IoN    0 O2CIAL o IMOT AU=NT
~ _0
2/ Auctions were started in September 1986 and continued, except for one canceled auction in
January 1989 on a fortnightly basis until mid-September 1987. At that time auctions were terminated
by the Government. They were not resumed until November 1988 when a simulated auction
arrangement was introduced on a monthly basis.



- 10-
were added to the negative list. Auction and free market prices for foreign exchange would not be
expected to be equal because significantly higher transactions costs were involved for traders using the
auction compared with the free market. The disbursement of the credit through an auction system
augmented the supply of foreign exchange for essential imports, and introduced a realistic price of
foreign exchange for these imports in a liberalized policy framework. A substantial number of
private traders (50-100) participated in the foreign exchange auctions.
29.  In early 1987 the Government undertook to implement a program under a new Stand-by
Arrangement and Structural Adjustment Facility. The program was approved by the IMF Board in
mid 1987. A central theme of this agreement was the unification of the three existing exchange rates
(the official rate and the free market rate would be set equal to the auction rate). The unified rate
also became the rate to be paid for foreign exchange earned by exporters; there was to be no retention
of foreign exchange by exporters. As a result the bi-monthly ASAP auctions became the determinant
of the exchange rate for all official foreign currency transactions. This had the effect of increasing
the demand for local currency to use at the auctions which became the sole legal source of foreign
exchange in the economy. These pressures led to a large unsanctioned increase in credit from the
Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia which were contrary to the provisions of the program and
In turn led to a more rapid devaluation of the Somali Shilling at the foreign exchange auctions than
projected. Expectations of a continued devaluation encouraged exporters to delay the negotiation of
their letters of credit reducing further the availability of foreign exchange in Somalia and leading to
intense competition for the limited supply of foreign exchange at the auctions and thereby fuelling the
devaluation of the Somali Shilling.
30.  With hindsight, it seems clear now that the Government lacked both the intellectual conviction
about the economic benefits of a flexible exchange rate policy and the political will to pursue such a
policy and at the same time limit credit expansion. Without recognizing that fiscal and monetary
restraint is an essential requirement of any reasonable stability of prices and exchange rates, the
authorities had probably expected the Somali Shilling to hold ground with considerable inflow of
foreign exchange through the auction system. As the value of the Shilling fell the Govermment, rather
than adopt prudent fiscal and monetary policy for stabilization, terminated the auctions as from
September 17, 1987 and fLxed the exchange rate at SoShlOO = US$1.00. This represented an
appreciation of the SoSh of 37 percent from its level at the last auction a few days before. An export
retention scheme which allowed exporters to retain 40 percent of their export earnings (to be used
only for imports) with the remainder being exchanged at the new official rate. T.Ae Government also
decided to introduce price controls, a reversal of the liberalization policy. These controls were
imposed in February 1988, but when it was clear they did not work and only led to sharp increases in
informal prices they were no longer policed and prices returned to market levels. The cancellation of
the ASAP auctions in September 1987 also had the effect of stopping commodity import programs
financed by other donors. The flow of foreign exchange was therefore drastically reduced. As a
result inflation accelerated (reaching 150 percent in the second quarter of 1988), official exports
slumped, and payments to creditors deteriorated.
31.  Itrest Rate Adjustment. The Fund program and ASAP envisaged that Government would
adjust interest rates for agricultural credits to achieve progress towards establishing real positive rates
of interest. Interest rates to agricultural producers in mid 1986 were 15 percent for short term credit,
and 14 percent for medium term credit. No upward adjustment of interest rates was made between
ASAP effectiveness and mid 1988. But because of a lowering of the inflation rate during the first
year of the credit, interest rates did tend towards positive real interest rates (Table 2). The reduction
in the inflation rate was an important achievement in taking "appropriate measures" towards positive



real interest rates in the longer run. However, following the suspension of auctions in September
1987 inflation increased rapidly in spite ef the imposition of price control in February 1988.
Following the deterioration in the economy and the surge in inflation during the second year of the
credit, the Goverrnent agreed to increase short term interest rates to 50 percent and medium term
credit to 18 percent. They were not adjusted again during the remainder of ASAP. These rates were
still lower than the average rate of inflation during 1988 or 1989; programmed rate of inflation, if
achieved, would have made the rates positive.
32.  A.N= Economic Program. The cancellation of the auctions had resulted in suspension of all
conmnodity import programs, and the Fund Stand-by Arrangement and SAF were "non-operational".
In late 1987 and during the first half of 1988 intensive discussions were held between the GOS, the
Bank, and the IMF. Eventually the Fund and the Government developed a macroeconomic program
which Government adopted in July 1988. The policy package adopted by the Government, in
collaboration with the Fund and the Bank for the second half of 1988 included measures to reduce
financial imbalances, moderate inflationary pressures, improve export competitiveness, increase
interest rates, and set the stage for a turn around in macroeconomic and structural policies in the
medium-term. The key measures taken by the GOS at that time included:
-    A devaluation of the exchange rate by 44 percent in foreign currency terms and 80
percent in local currency terms;
-    The lifting of the price controls introduced in February 1988;
-    A continued tight fiscal stance, with specific revenue measures including an increase in
the tax rate on rental income, introduction of a withholding tax on the gross income of
banana producers, extending the coverage of the service tax, changing the tax on fuel
from specific to ad valorem and nearly doubling its effective rate, g/ and imposing an
airport departure tax; and
Sharp increases in interest rates: the minimum deposit rate was raised from 12 to 40
percent; the minimum lending rate was raised from 15 to 50 percent; the Central Bank
discount rate was raised from 12 to 45 percent.
33.  New       am Sustained and ASAP Auctions Resumed. The Fund mission which visited
Somalia in November 1988, with Bank participation, found that, with some minor deviations, the
measures contained in the policy package of mid-1988 were being implemented. The initial results
were positive. The fiscal deficit was substantially lower and inflation decelerated in the last quarter
of 1988. These positive findings triggered agreement by the Bank to allow the resumption of a
modified system of foreign exchange auctions. The benefits to Somalia of re-starting the auctions
financed by ASAP (and other donors) had been a major factor in maintaining a vigorous dialogue
between all parties in Somalia on a wide range of policy issues,
2/ While the Govermnent changed the tax on fuel to a level equivalent to that indicated by the
agreed ad valorem rate, it did not continue to implement the ad valorem tax since the tax
remained constant.



- 12 -
(b)    Thbe Prvt   etrad Price Policy
34.   Ditibution of Petroleum  Produc. The President's Report (PR) for ASAP stated that greater
Involvement of the private sector in trade and distribution of diesel fuel and lubricants was a specific
objective of the program. The Government had, as a condition of Board presentation, asserted that
the required policy actions under the program to allow private traders freedom to import and
distribute diesel fuel and lubricants had been implemented. 2/ The Credit Agreements for fuel
Table 2: INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
From     From      From      From      pr0m      From
6/30/81  6/30/32  1/1/85   2/1/86   9/1/86   1/8,88 a/
.                (percent per annum). ...-....
Centrat 8ank
Official discount rate                     6.0       8.0     12.0      12.0      12.0      45.0
Government credits]                       6.0       8.0      12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0
Commercial Sank
Credit to Cooperatives                    10.0      12.0     15.0      15.0      15.0      50.0
and smalt-scaLe farmer                    10.0     12.0      15.0      15.0      15.0      50.0
Credit to Public Enterprises               10.0      12.0      19.0      19.0     22.0      50.0
Credit to Export                           10.0      12.0      15.0      15.0      15.0
Credit to NationaL Enterprises             10.0      12.0      19.0      19.0     22.0       50.0
Credit to Foreign Enterprises              12.5      14.5      20.0     20.0      22.0       50.0
Development Sank
medium-term (C26 years)
" Loans to Agric. & Handicrafts         10.0      10.0      14.0      14.0      14.0      18.0
Loans to Industry & Min.              11.0      11.0      15.0      15.0      15.0      19.0
" Loans to Others                        12.0     12.0      16.0      16.0      16.0      20.0
Long-term (7-20 years)
" Loans to Agric. & Handicrafts          11.0      11.0     15.0      15.0      15.0      19.0
Loans to Industry & Min.              12.0      12.0      16.0      16.0      16.0      20.0
" Loans to Others                       14.0      14.0      17.0      17.0      17.0      21.0
Source:  Data provided by Sc4ati Authorities
*/ There was no change after August 1, S988.
i/     Letter from  Minister of Finance dated May 15, 1986.



- 13 -
and lubricants. Indeed, the ASAP credits implicitly recognized the dominant role of the National
Petroleum Agency (SOMPET) in the trade and marketing of petroleum products and made a separate
allocation to SOMPET in the credits for the import of diesel fuel and lubricants outside of the auction
system. During appraisal and negotiations the Government had placed considerable importance on
this separate allocation; it did not anticipate rapid private sector involvement in the marketing of
petroleum products although there was already at least one private fuel distributor and a number of
enterprises procured their own fuel. In December 1987 SOMPET and the Foreign Ministry stated
through formal letters to all embassies and donor agencies that: (i) under the law SOMPET was solely
responsible for the import and distribution of petroleum and petroleum products and (ii) all foreign
agencies were required to stop from January 1988 the practice of direct import of petroleum and
products by themselves or through any private agency. It is not knnwn whether that letter had the
implicit endorsement of the Minister of Finance. The letter was ignored in practice, but it was yet
another indication of the Government's tendency to depart from major policy commitments at that
time.
35.  Diesel Fuel Pricing. The PR stated that the Government "will maintain its commitment to the
IMF on diesel fuel pricing, namely that the retail price for diesel fuel sold by the GOS will be at the
border price at the market exchange rate as determined at the most recent foreign exchange
auction,". WI The Credit Agreements put it a little more vaguely as setting "domestic price of
diesel fuel at a level equivalent to at least the c.i.f price based on a formula acceptable to
IDA". lI/ Elsewhere in the Credit Agreements it was required that importation of diesel fuel and
lubricants by SOMPET financed by the ASAP credit "shall be based on the exchange rate determined
at the most recent foreign exchange auction". 12/ The IMF regularly reviewed the level of retail
fuel prices to verify that they were at import parity using the auction exchange rate. While IDA
accepted the IMF reviews, the Resident Mission also monitored the diesel fuel price intermittently
during implementation. Tberefore, whether SOMPET always sold diesel fuel to the fuel distribution
cooperatives at c.i.f. prices was not separately confirmed by IDA.
36. SOMPET was explicitly excluded from buying foreign exchange at the auctions, but was
provided with about US$16 million under the credits to purchase diesel fuel and lubricants for which
it paid counterpart funds up front at the latest auction exchange rate. While special commitments for
the purchase of fuel by SOMPET should not have been issued by IDA until all counterpart funds had
been paid, SOMPET had not paid a total of So.Sh. 125 million (equivalent to about $0.5 million) for
the fuel it received from ASAP as of May 31, 1988. The reason was probably that the fuel
distribution cooperative, which obtained the fuel from SOMPET, had not paid completely for the fuel
received.
37.  Grain P     upprts. The Government was required by the credit agreements to establish
minimum buying prices for grains purchased by ADC that were based on long term export parity
prices. 13/ Table 3 shows that in 1987 the Government did not comply, but in setting the new
2/   President's Report, paragraph 88.
Jl/  Credit Agreements, Section 3.06.
11/  Credit Agreements, Schedule 5.
la/  Credit Agreements, Section 3.08.



- 14 -
prices raised them at a rate well below the rate of inflation. By 1988 the maize support price was 11
percent higher than export parity in that year, but the sorghum price was 4 percent below export
parity. The Government had some difficulty in determining, ex ante, the long term trend in export
parity prices. The Government's intent was to bring the level of minimum buying prices down to
levels below import parity and not create further losses for ADC. It certainly achieved that objective.
38.  Fgod Aid, Mnagement. In regard to pricing of food aid the Government implemented the
requirement that sales of food aid to government agencies be at prices which are no lower than prices
realized at the latest auctions of food aid arranged under the PL480 program.
IahI: MAIZE AND SORGHUM PRICES
(SoSh/ton)
A1>C Du2DQit/           Export Parity P   /        XI    idarkc h/
Year      Maize   kghm               Maize   Sorghum             Maize   Sorghum
1985     15,000      13,000          8,286      6,277           20,636     16,359
1986     15,000      13,000         11,774      9,254           25,215     20,584
1987     15,000      13,000         12,535      10,396          26,488     22,234
1988     52,000     35,000          46,949     36,359          107,319     87,275
a/    ADC.
h/   From Bechir Rassas, "Food Grain Marketing and Price Policies in Somalia",
February 1989. Export and import parity prices are not exactly
comparable to the ADC price because they do not account for internal transport
costs. These costs are not known precisely, but if accounted for they would slightly decrease
export parity price and increase import parity price.
Note: Export and import parity prices were determined using the average of the
official and free market rate, implying an average 50 percent retention by
exporters at the free market exchange rate.
39.  H         and Skins Mrketing. When the ASAP credit was negotiated a Government-owned
parastatal (the Hides and Skins Agency or HASA) J1/ had a statutory monopoly for buying and
selling raw hides and skins internally and a monopoly on the sale of both raw and processed hides and
skins for export. The Credit agreements required the Government to carry out a study of the
efficiency of the hides and skins, leather and leather products industry, and to assess the impact of the
greater participation of private individuals and companies in the domestic and export trade of such
IN    HASA was legally known as the Skins and Leather Agency (SLA).



- 15 -
production. 15/ One condition of second tranche release required the Government to furnish to
IDA a plan of action, acceptable to IDA, for the implementation of the recommendation of the
study. X£/ Although, the langUage used made the condition very unspecific as to the desirable
content of the action plan, it was clear that there needed to be an action plan acceptable to IDA before
the second tranche could be released. Earlier sector work had unambiguously suggested the
desirability of liberalization of the hides and skins trade. 1I/
40.   The Government initiated a study by UNIDO on various aspects of domestic and export trade
of hides and skins and their products. The authors of the study encountered considerable difficulty,
however, in obtaining adequate information on the current status of the industry because of resistance
from the Government and HASA. Nevertheless, UJNIDO was able to build on its previous knowledge
of the industry and produced a final report on schedule, made available to IDA by the Goverwonent.
The report recommended that individuals and enterprises, as well as HASA, should be permitted to
buy and sell raw hides and skins domestically, and also to export processed hides and skins and
leather products. The report recommended that the authority to export unprocessed hides and skins
remain with HASA.
41.  IDA proposed to the Government that the recommendations of the report be accepted for the
purpose of second tranche release. After a good deal of intense negotiations with IDA, the
Goverment proposed the liberalization of the domestic trade in hides and skins, but did not agree to
change the monopoly position of the Government entity in the export of processed hides and skins.
IDA finally accepted this proposal as fulfliling one of the second tranche conditions in April 1987.
This resolution satisfied the legal requirement of the Credit Agreement, but it fell far short of an
adequate adjustment of the hides and skins industry. Nevertheless liberalization of domestic trade was
expected to improve prices paid to domestic producers and also lead to increased informal exports to
by-pass the continued monopoly powers held by HASA. Although data available were not adequate,
supervision missions were informed by various sources that during 1988 the informal exports o 'raw
hides and skins increased. This is consistent with continued representations made by HASA to have
all its monopoly powers re-instated because it could not compete for raw hides and skins in the
domestic market. Also exports of raw sheep and goat skins by HASA fell to 1.5 million during 1988
compared with 2.6 million exported during 1987. There were records of formal exports by
enterprises other than HASA, but not enough to account for the reduction in HASA exports. It is
worth noting here that complete decontrol was eventually agreed by the Government (see paragraph
47).
42.   ONAT Cot Reoery. Achievement of full cost recovery of tractor rentals by the
Government's tractor rental agency (ONAI) was envisaged as another important measure under the
credit and a condition of the second tranche. The technical assistance component of the Credit
included an allowance for a study to measure the actual costs facing ONAT in the delivery of its
.4    Credit Agreements, Section 3. 10.
15/   Credit Agreements, Schedule 4.
lfi/  See "Smalia:A2ricultural Sector Survey: Main Report and Strategy", op. cit.



- 16 -
tractor hire services. The study was completed with mutch difficulty because of the inadequate
data. 1A/ It has however, proved very useful and assisted ONAT to establish its rates and also
restructuring the whole enterprise. For example, ONAT closed down a number of branches which
the study had shown were not profitable and reduced staff numbers. 12/ Soon after Board
approval ONAT increased rental rates on tractors by 22 percent. But between July 1986 and
December 1987, ONAT costs were under study and there was no increase in rental rates (see Table 4)
and no impro-ement in cost recovery. During this period the second tranche condition concerning
satisfactory movement of ONAT rates towards full cost recovery was accepted as met on the strength
of the 22 percent increase in 1986. Following the conclusion of the cost study ONAT rental rates
were increased by 18 percent in January 1988. Rates were increased by a further 15 percent in
March 1988. ONAT continued to increase tractor rental rates andi in general they increased steadily
and faster than inflation, indicating real increases in rates. By the end of October 1990 rental rates
exceeded total operating costs estimated by ONAT (see Table 5). Full cost recovery was close, but
from the records available it appears that depreciation is still underestimated. Nevertheless ONAT
had made substantial strides towards full cost recovery by the end of ASAP.
Table 4: ONAT MACHINERY RENTAL RATES
Rental Rates to Farmes       Rental Rates to Farmers
Indexed from June 1985 Base /
Heavy     Agricultural       Heavy           Agricultural
Machinery Tractors           Machinery       Tractors
----Shs. per hour-----          -----Shs. per hour-----
June 1985                 590         221                590            221
December 1985             921         348                604            226
July 1986                1133         425                825            309
July 1986 -
December 1987           1337         501                1121           419
January 1988             1537         576               1149            430
March 1988               2739        1026               1354            507
January 1990             7085        2794               5865           2197
March 1990               8206        3856               6739           2524
April 1990               9191        5454               8000           2996
May 1990                10937        6016               8787           3291
June 1990               15421        8482               9323           3492
August 1990             19276       10603              11659           4367
October 1990            26408       13733              17048           6385
October 1990            32048       16517              17048           6385
A/ Using Mogadishu Consumer Price Index
E2/   Draft Study on ONAT Operating Performance (Cost Structure and Tractor Operating Cost
Analysis), prepared by SOMCONSULT, July 1987.
I1/  See "A Brief Report on ONAT Operating Performance", prepared by ONAT, December,
1989.



- 17 -
TAb  5: AVERAGE ONAT OPERATING COSTS AND RENTAL RATES
Tbis is to demonstrate the average typical tractor operating cost per hour for machinery Massey
Ferguson (Wheel Tractors), Fiat Allis (Heavy Machinery) while they were stationed at various ONAT
branches.
I.     OPERATING COST PER HOUR                    F              F/ALLIS
----------(So.Sh/hour)----------
1. Fuel & Lubricants                7,563.00            16,207.00
2. Repair & Maintenance             2,773.00             3,315.00
3. Tractor Operator Costs           1,023.09             2,800.00
4. Depreciation - Tractors            623.55             1,638.30
- Disc Plough              92.61
- Harrow                   45.26
12,120.51           23,961.30
II.    OVERHEADS, ADMINISTRATION &
FINANCIAL COSTS PER HOUR
1. Office Salaries & Allowance        794.21              794.21
2. Canteen Food & Allowance         1,264.73             1,264.73
3. Registration Fees & Duties         316.91              316.91
4. Insurance                            8.79                 8.79
5. Travel Expenses                    200.62              200.62
6. Miscellaneous Expenses           1,012.70             1,012.70
3,919.96            3,919.96
GRAND TOTAL I + II                 16,040.27            28,852.61
m.    RENTAL RATES LO FARMERS
Rental Rates at October 9, 1990    13,783.31            31,601.72
Rental Rates at October 23, 1990   16,517.28            32,048.12
Source: ONAT, Mogadishu, October 1990
43.      bicg InvLstment PoW=. It was envisaged that the Government would adopt a Public
Investment Program (PIP) acceptable to IDA as a condition of second tranche release. The
Goverment's revised three-year Public Investment Program for 1987-89 was broadly endorsed by
IDA and other donors at the Consultative Group meeting in April 1987. Serious weaknesses,
however, persisted in the management of Somalia's PIP. Also, returns to some public investments



- 18 -
remained low and unsatisfactory. To strength-, the mechanism for aid coordination the Consultative
Group agreed to form a Joint Coordination Group composed of donor representatives in Mogadishu to
coordinate the PIP and donor disbursements. 20/ The Joint Coordination Group also provided a
review mechanism for future public investment programs. It met regularly in Mogadishu under the
chairmanship of Bank's Resident Representative.
(d)   trenethenin Institutions Responsible for Reform
44.    The vehicle for the strengthening of institutions was technical assistance. The results of this
component are provided elsewhere (see paragraphs 66 to 69). However it can also be said that ASAP
led to a substantial reform in the perception and attitudes of Government ministries and their staff
about stabilization and adjustment in the Somali economy. The frequent dialogue on policy issues in
the economy as a whole and the agricultural sector exposed Government institutions and their staff to
the rationale for reform and the policies required to achieve it. It must be said that ministers and high
level staff in key ministries understood the issues well and were willing to act. The main constraints
hindering action were first the overriding influence of powerfuil forces within the Government and
their supporters who resisted reform and the reductions in their economic rents and patronage which
would follow the reform measures. Second, the civil service is poorly paid and had consequently
little incentive or capacity to analyze investment options and implement policy. While there are some
highly qualified people in the Government, in general the competence of Ministries is weak.
.nditionalily
(a)  Cynt nA
45.   Annex 4 provides a summary of covenants and the extent of compliance with the covenants.
Those covenants related to implementation of the program were discussed in previous paragraphs. In
general the Government was in compliance, but there were frequent interruptions and a number of
short-comings. The major problem throughout the implementation of the program was that the
Government could not sustain its adherence to the macroeconomic program, and could not implement
some of the covenants precisely.
(b) Seond Tranche Release Conditions
46.   The conditions for release of the second tranche were:
e   Furnish a plan of action acceptable to the Association, for the implementation of
recommendations of a study of the efficiency of the bitiXesand skins industry and greater
participation of the private sector.
*   Submit a letter of intent on agricultural policy acceptable to the Association.
*   Submit a public investmen  gram acceptable to the Association.
12/    See "Meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia - Chairman's Report on Proceedings',
Paris, April 6-7, 1987 (Board Document No. SOM 87-5 dated June 5, 1987).



- 19 -
*   Take measures to ensure that interest rates for agricultural credit become positive in the
longer run.
*   Gradually set ONAT rental rates for machinery and equipment at levels which will ensure
full cost recovery.
Most of these issues have already been discussed above because they were either related
to covenants in the Credit Agreement or part of the macroeconomic program. The
compliance with second tranche conditions is therefore summarized only briefly below.
47.   Hides and_Skins. The hides and skins study was completed and discussed between IDA and
the Government. While it was never intended that the study recommendations be automatically
accepted by all parties, IDA eventually agreed to accept changes in the hides and skins industry which
were less comprehensive than the study recommended. Complete decontrol of hides and skins
marketing was, however, finally implemented by the Government in January 1989, before the project
closed.
48.   Agricultural Policy. The letter outlining agricultural policy was prepared and received. It
presented a vision of a free enterprise agricultural sector with the role of Government to provide
essential services. IDA accepted the letter as satisfying second tranche conditionality.
49.   Public I[vestment Program. The three year public investment program was submitted by the
Government and, following amendments to reduce its size, approved by a Consultative Group meeting
which included IDA. Major problems still existed in respect to implementation and local currency
finding. The revised PIP was accepted by IDA as satisfying second tranche conditionality.
50.   Interegt Rat   Interes. rates on agricultural credit did move towards positive rates during the
first year of implementation because the rate of inflation abated during this time. This trend in the
interest rates to become pos ive was accepted by IDA as satisfying second tranche conditionality. As
described above interest rates were increased substantially in 1988 after second tranche release, but
inflation had soared at the end of 1987 and during 1988. Although interest rates were increased in
the middle of 1988, they were still not positive.
51.   QN    Rental_Chgr    Rental charges for ONAT machinery and equipment had been
increased by 22 percent in July 1986, shortly after the Credits were approved. This was certainly a
major move towards cost recovery. However the study of ONAT costs was not completed until July
1987 and there was inadequate information in respect of actual costs. IDA accepted the early large
increase in rental rates as evidence that ONAT was gradually setting rental rates at levels which
would ensure fall cost recovery and therefore second trance conditionality was satisfied.
(c)  Assessment of S    Toliance
52.   Was there pressure to relese the second tranche? Did this have an impact on the extent to
which second tranche conditions were met?
53.   There was indeed pressure to release the second tranche becauise the foreign exchange auctions
had become an integral part of the IMF's stabilization program . Hence any delay in the availability
of funds for the auction would jeopardize the success of the stabilization objectives. In addition, by
this time, other donors had joined in providing funds for the auctions and the absence of IDA funds
could have created problems because IDA had less restrictive conditions on the origin of imports than



-20 -
the Italian program. On the other hand, negotiations and discussions about the second tranche
conditions had started a long time ago at very high levels in the Bank - in particular on the vexed
question of hides and skins. It is clear that cornsiderable discussion had taken place and it was
unlikely that further discussion v'ould achieve additional concessions from the Government. The
bottom line for IDA was similar to that of the IMF, namely that the stabilization program was at least
as important as progress on the second tranche conditions.
Procuemep andDisbursemen
(a) PFroutmenA
54.   The proceeds of the IDA credit and Africa Facility credits were used to finance imports as
stipulated in the credit agreement: (la) eligible commercial inputs outside the negative list; (lb)
imports of diesel fuel and lubricants by SOMPET; and (2) agricultural inputs by the Ministries of
Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries. Procurement followed the guidelines under IDA credits. For
imports of goods over $200,000 at least three quotations were required for categories (la) and (2)
above, while international competitive bidding was used for category (lb).
55.   During the credit period there were illegal drawings of $3.4 million from the Special Account
by the Central Bank of Somalia. The Government admitted the mistake and refunded $1.4 million to
the Special Account. The disbursement of the credit was formally suspended for about a year till the
remaining US$2 million was refunded. That refunu was financed by the Italian Government.
(b) Disbursemet
56.   Disbursement by Categories. As stipulated in the credit agreement, disbursements were made
for the total foreign exchange costs of eligible imports under full documentation, and the Government
opened special accounts in US dollars with a large international commercial bank to facilitate
disbursement. Actual disbursements under various categories at the cancellation of project and
indicative allocations at appraisal are shown in Table 6.
57.  Imorts of Gds. For the period September 1, 1986 - September 16, 1987, letters of credit
for imports financed by foreign exchange auctions amounted to over $64 million 21/. About 52
percent of these imports consisted of food (pasta, rice, wheat, edible oil, sugar and other food), 21
percent construction materials, 20 percent transportation and other equipment and spare parts, 4
percent textiles and other consumer goods, and 3 percent miscellaneous goods. Since funds from
several sources (IDA, SFA, SJF, USAID and Italy) were co-mingled at the foreign exchange auctions
it is not possible to obtain a precise break-down of imports under category (la) financed by ASAP.
However, the composition of ASAP financed imports should be the same as that of the total auction-
financed imports. 22/
58.   The high proportion of food imports initially created some concern about the possible adverse
impact on development. A special study was arranged and conducted by two consultants from the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) to investigate the issue. Its findings were that a
?JZ   Of which IDA/AF provided US$43.6 million, USAID US$12.7 million, iTALY US$5.8
million, and govermnent of Somalia US$2.3 million (see Annex 2).
I/    A complete analysis of the auction results which provides details of the types of commodities
imported, origin of imports, and exchange rates is available in the project files.



- 21 -
high proportion of food imports were not a cause for concern unless food imports were less protected
than other imports. There was no clear evidence about the latter. 23/
59.   The range of eligible imports was changed several times by reducing or expanding the negative
list. In particular, food and urban construction materials were at times included or excluded from the
negative list, on the Government's initiative in response to the volume of these imports and their
domestic availability in the preceding weeks. Sugar was added to the negative list in late October
1986, while urban construction materials were deleted from the negative list in early 1987.
Table : ASAP ALLOCATIONS AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
BY CATEGORIES
(SDR million)
Categories                                    Allocated        Actual
1.  Imports of Goods
la. Commercial imports of eligible goods       37.5 g/          33.9
lb. Fuel imports by SOMPET                     11.8             10.7
2.  Imports by Government
Agricultural Ministries                     4.4              1.1
3.  Technical Assistance
Ministries of Finance, Agriculture
and Planning                                 1.4 b/          1.3
Unallocated categories I/                        -               6.9
Unused                                           -               1.2
55.1            55.1
&i  Excludes UK contribution of £5 million from the Special Joint Facility.
h/  Excludes Swedish Government contribution of Swedish Kr.2 million (about $300,000).
c/  These amounts were disbursed for imports, but at the time of preparing this report final
documentation providing evidence of the use of funds had not been submitted by the
Goverment.
60.  After over 12 months of suspension of the credits for category (la) imports, disbursements
were resumed in October 1988 at the official exchange rate. The negative list was also enlarged at
the time by including construction materials, food, clothing and household goods. But in February
1989, wheat, wheat flour, pasta, rice and sugar were again removed from the negative list; only
edible oil still remained in the negative list. Thus at the close of the ASAP credit, roughly 60 percent
of category (la) imports were food and other consumption goods (well over 50 percent was for food
22    Sahn, David E. and Alderman, Harold; "The Role of the Foegeft  Exchange and Commodity
Aucton in Trade. AgicultrA and ConsuMDtn in Somalia"; June 1987. Duties were 40
percent on grains, 30 percent on pasta, 5 percent on rice and 4 percent on flour. These rates
compared with 30 percent for most building materials (some as low as 10 percent), 35 percent
for spare parts and engines, 10 percent for pumps and wood, and 0 percent for potassium
fertilizer.



- 22 -
alone) and 40 percent ilvestment goods and r:oduction itlputs (mostly in construction and
transportation).
61.        s ftL Eiwi. Disbursements for imports of diesel fuel by SOMPET under category (lb)
exceeded appraisal estimates because of exchange rate changes against the SDR.
62.         bv Ministrik. Disbursements for imports by agricultural ministries under category (2)
fell far short of appraisal estimates, probably because there was inadequate demand. There were also
substantial delays with the procurement under this category . The main reasons for delay were poor
specification and disagreements between the Ministries and IDA about the need for various items on
the Ministry lists.
63.           - st ano. Disbursement for technical assistance - mostly for supporting the Central
Statistics Departnent in the Ministry of National Planning (see below), was completed.
Cgfluanm g
64.  The United Kingdom (UK) provided a grant in support of ASAP in the amount of £5 million
which at appraisal was determined as equivalent to US$7.4 million, but because of exchange rate
adjustments turned out to be about US$9 million. This amount was contributed by the United
Kingdom for the financing of category (la) imports only. The funds were administered by IDA
through a trust account. The disbursement of these funds was pari pasu with IDA funds. They were
administered as though they were IDA funds under the same terms and conditions as IDA funds.
Regular contact was maintained between the UK (through the Overseas Development Administration)
and IDA during appraisal and supervision of the credits.
65.  USAID and the Government of Italy also supported the foreign exchange auctions under ASAP
(see Annex 2), but they were not strictly cofinanciers. The funds from these donors were parallel
financing. All financial accounts for ,hese funds were kept separate from ASAP.
TecIhnical Assistanc
66.  The technical assistance component comprised three sub-components, namely assistance to: (a)
the Ministry of Finance; (b) the Ministry of National Planning; and (c) the Ministry of Agriculture.
(a)   Minisr ofinanc
67.  The purpose of this component was to provide technical assistance to the procurement unit
which managed the procedures for processing of foreign exchange entitlement at the auctions. This
sub-component also financed direct expatriate assistance to the Minister of Finance; this provided the
Minister with direct support on economic and financial policy matters. These funds were well used
and the procurement process was implemented efficiently. In addition local Somali staff received on-
the-job training; these staff members re-appeared later as usefiul staff members in procurement units
for commodity programs financed by other donors.
(b)   Minilt f- Nial Rignning
68.  This assistance was a continuation of a program financed under AIP. The purpose was to
strengthen the Central Statistics Department (CSD) of the Ministry of National Planning. The credit
financed the costs of two long term expatriate consultants from Statistics Sweden, the costs of short
term consultants, equipment and training. Financing for this component (Swedish Kroner 2 million)



- 23 -
was also received from the Swedish Government. The program was widely recognized as being very
successful. It trained local staff to collect data for and prepare the monthly Consumer Price Index for
Mogadisliu, it collected and analyzed a household budget survey for Mogadishu and prepared a
variety of statistical series on trade, industry and agriculture. The CSD also prepared national
accounts used by Bank and IMF staff. The majority of training was local and implemented by the
long and short term experts. A local training program was established (see Annex 5), but fluctuations
in staff commitment made implementation difficult. The program was, however, intensified towards
the end of ASAP with considerable emphasis on basic computer training. The one scholar sent
overseas had not completed her training at the end of ASAP, but a year later she had still not returned
to Somalia. This program of technical assistance was continued under the second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program.
(c) M:i2I=Ev of Agriculture
69.  Assistance was provided to the Ministry to rehabilitate its fleet of trucks, machinery and
equipment. The Ministry was very satisfied with the results. The program provided an expatriate
agricultural machinery expert who trained ministry staff in practical sessions. This component was
extended into the second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program. A final report on this activity was
prepared by the consultant. This technical assistance was continued under the second Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program.
Accounts and Audits
70.  The Government made arrangements for audits for all years to the end of 1989. All audit
reports were received except for 1989. That report has been sighted, but has not yet been formally
signed by the Government because of the recent civil war. The opinion in all audits was that the
financial management of ASAP was in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
IV. TE IMPACT OF ASAP
Achievement and Shortcoings
71.  The policy measures towards a progressively more liberalized economic environment and
financial assistance under the program were expected to promote increased domestic production
particularly of grains, improve the marketing of hides and skins, expand the role of the private sector,
and increase exports from the livestock and banana subsectors. Since many variables influenced the
performance on the economy, agricultural production and exports since the introduction of ASAP, it
is not possible to separate the effect of ASAP on those goals. Nevertheless in general the economy
continued to grow strongly during the first year of the program, but then slumped badly after the
Government's policy reversals in September 1987.
72.  It should also be noted that both the GOS and IDA viewed ASAP as a first phase of a longer
program. Preparations for the second ASAP had started as early as mid 1987, although the follow up
project was not submitted for Board approval until June 1989. The following evaluation assesses the
Government's commitment to the program and its own performance in respect of policy
implementation, economic performance, and IDA's performance.



- 24
(a) Government Cm-mitment
*    The Government's actions during most of the implementation period failed to display
strong and sustained ownership of the program's policy objectives.
*    There was much more emphasis by the Government on the disbursement of funds
through the auctions than on the policy measures.
*    It was apparent during implementation that there were divergent interpretations within
the Government regarding the objectives of ASAP. This created difficulties for the
policy dialogue between the Government and IDA.
(b) Commnrformance
*    Implementation of agreed macroeconomic policy measures under the program was
unsatisfactory. Nevertheless implementation of most covenants related to the agricultural
sector and the administration of the credit was ultimately satisfactory and some actions
provided building blocks for the future. This result was only achieved, however,
following intense pressure and extensive dialogue on policy issues.
*     nChanges in the Government's monopoly powers over the hides and skins industry fell
short of the Bank's objectives at second tranche release. Instead the deregulation of the
domestic trade in unprocessed hides and skins, while beneficial to producers, led to a
substantial increase in the informal (and illegal) exports of raw products which were now
free to move to the borders. As a result the formal exports of hides and skins by HASA
declined. Nevertheless the intense dialogue on the hides and skins issue did ultimately
pay dividends because the Government announced complete decontrol of the industry in
January 1989.
*     ZDomestic market prices for grain continued at attractive levels for producers; grain
production continued to increase strongly at a rate above population growth.
*    Producer price supports for sorghum and maize were not maintained at export parity as
required by the Credit although the departure was not substantial and could be justified
in terms of the level of support price already existing. The main shortcoming, however,
was the continued existence of the inefficient ADC and ENC. Grain marketing,
however, continued without Government controls.
*    The continued dominant role of SOMPET and the cooperatives in the importation and
distribution of petroleum and petroleum-products discouraged private sector involvement
in petroleum trade and marketing.
e    The availability of foreign exchange resources in a non-disariminatory manner to finance
commercial imports (through AIP and ASAP) had stimulated private sector activities on
a wide front - especially in food trade, construction materials, machinery and
transportation. There was some improvement in the investment/GDP ratio.
*    The small proportion of agricultural inputs imported with funds available through the
auctions reflects to a large extent the low purchased input levels in Somali agriculturo.
There are no reliable data on the extent of additional investment in agriculture by the



-25 -
private sector although it is known that cotisiderable investment in the banana industry
was taking place during 1986 to 1988.
*    Full cost recovery of tractor services provided by ONAT was never quite achieved
before the project closing date. But it was significant that ONAT was no longer
financed from the Government budget and it had taken substantial steps to restructure its
operations to become self financing. Private tractor service and rental companies had
become established in competition with ONAT.
*    Despite improvements in food aid management, there was still evidence that the
agreement to institutionalize market based pricing for food aid provided to Government
ministries had not been fully implemented.
(c) FlimcEroac
*    The considerable flow of foreign exchange under ASAP permitted a wide range of
imports and helped to reduce inflationary pressures during the first year of the program
before the Government abandoned the flexible exchange rate and free marketing of
goods in late 1987 and early 1988. The availability of funds from the auction also
improved the balance of payments. But despite the large Somali Shilling resources
generated by the ASAP credit, the Government failed to improve its revenue
performance and did not reduce the budget deficit because it continued to finance the
deficit through the banking system. Despite the added funds available from the ASAP
auctions, the deficit increased in 1987.
*    1988 was a year of major failure in macroeconomic management and enforced financial
restraint. Average inflation reached over 80 percent in that year. Revenue performance
declined, and the allocation of the budget to social and economic sectors deteriorated.
*    Private investment as a percentage of GDP increased somewhat in 1987 to about 11
percent, but the trend was not sustained. In general incentives to invest deteriorated as
the credibility of the Government declined. The private investment/GDP ratio was
estimated to be about 4 percent in 1989.
*    Part of the growth in agriculture during 1987 (about 8 percent) may be attributed to
ASAP together with the liberalization of grain marketing policies introduced earlier.
Even in 1988 when total GDP declined by about 1 percent, agriculture GDP increased
by almost 4 percent, to a large extent due increased grain output. The impact of ASAP
on livestock production and exports is not clear because the exchange rate regime
continued to be unfavorable for official livestock exports. ITe value of livestock exports
in 1987 were 5 percent less than in 1986; of course in 1988 they were 64 percent less
than in 1986. The extent of non official livestock exports was said to be high, but
reliable data are not available.
*    ASAP was not intended to address problems such as improved research, extension,
water use management, and animal health services. The slow progress on these issues,
however, is partly because the budget spends a minuscule amount on agricultural
services. Also the Government was unwilling or unable to restructure public
expenditures; during 1986-1988 the Government devoted increasing resources to internal
sOCUrity, particudarly in northem Somalia.



- 26 -
*    In light of the major policy failures of the Government during the implementation of
ASAP, it would have been reasonable to conclude that a foundation was not being laid
for sustained growth of agricultural output and exports. Thus, despite increases in grain
production, the Somali economy seemed to be on shaky grounds at the end of 1938.
However at the beginning of 1989 the GOS announced a wide ranging program of
adjustment measures which promised to stimulate a major turn around in the economic
and financial environment for the economy. The measures included announcements of
its intention to undertake complete decontrol of the trade in hides and skins, frankincense
and myrrh, maritime transport services, insurance and banking. The intensive dialogue
was starting to pay off, and the far reaching measures introduced in early 1989 provided
the basis for a second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP II). In 1989 total
GDP achieved a growth rate of 2.7 percent, although agriculture grew by only 1.7
percent due to a 43 percent decline in the value of stocks. Crop production continued to
grow vigorously.
(d) IA&dQxmv1u
*    IDA misjudged the depth of commitment by the Government to the implementation of
the program. In retrospect it was clear that there had been no real understanding or
ownership by the Government of the program when the credit was negotiated. The GOS
saw ASAP mainly as balance of payments support and paid inadequate attention to the
conditions required for stabilization and sustained growth. This picture emerged clearly
as implementation proceeded.
*    Another short-coming in IDA's performance was that second tranche conditions actually
achieved were not as strong as envisaged at appraisal and negotiations. The main reason
was the concern by IDA (and the Fund) that the broader program objectives of the credit
could not be held hostage to an inflexible interpretation of second tranche conditions.
*    Although there was collaboration between the Fund and IDA supervision missions, it
was not close enough to ensure that IDA was fully informed of the progress of the
Fund's program. In particular the unification of the exchange rate using the foreign
exchange auction went ahead without an adequate assessment by IDA of the implications
even though the ASAP credit (together with some other donors) was expected to finance
the auctions. It is probably relevant that this took place at the height of the Bank's 1987
reorganization.
*    Despite the many problems with this credit it is fair to add that the intensive dialogue
between the Government, the Fund and IDA on a wide range of policy issues did have a
positive effect on the understanding of government officials of the importance of
improved economic and financial policies.
Sfcial Imact
73.  Although the social impact of ASAP cannot be ascertained with any degree of accuracy due to
serious scarcity of relevant data, there was probably considerable suffering amongst the poor during
1988 when the inflation rate jumped to high levels and overall economic growth declined. While the
program did not involve any reduction or elimination of subsidized goods or services to the poor, or
change in any social welfare program, the budgetary allocations to social and economic sectors did



- 27 -
not improve ?.I. The increased availability of various imports and the resultant stimulus to some
private sector economic activity probably brought some benefits to the poor through increased
employment.
V. LESSONS LEARNED
74.  Implementation of ASAP showed clearly that the Government could not sustain a commitment
to macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms which had a detrimental impact on politically important
interest groups. Further, the Government was under increasing political pressure during the
implementation of ASAP and as a result any economic program lacked credibility. This loss of
credibility had a depressing effect on private investment.
75.  The Government's acceptance of the foreign exchange auctions was not based primarily on an
endorsement of a flexible exchange rate policy but on an expectation of larger inflows of foreign
exchange and a stabilization of the exchange rate. In important public sector monopolies (eg. hides
and skins, SOMPET, and cooperative fuel distribution) there were entrenched interests which the
Government did not wish to disturb for the sake of improving efficiency of resource use and
economic growth. Measures to taclde these controls were incorporated as conditions of second
tranche release, but they were not fulfilled to the extent originally envisaged by IDA.
76.  The lessons from this experience were that critically important policy measures should be
brought "up front" as conditions of negotiation, and the Government should clearly demonstrate
ownership over the policies. If important policies and measures are kept as second tranche conditions
then IDA should ensure that they are clear and should then stick to them. Bank-Government policy
dialogue is a continuing process and should benefit from these lessons. Indeed for the second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP II) a substantial set of policy changes and
adjustments were provided by the Government up front well before negotiations.
77.  Although implementation of the program was monitored through nine supervision missions
from Washington, as well as through the Bank's resident mission in Somalia, inadequate data
hampered intensive monitoring of several important aspects such as the Government's control of
credit, Govermnent revenues and expenditures, and the import parity price of fuel. In future a much
closer interaction needs to be forged between the Government, the Fund and the Bank to ensure
adequate monitoring of these crucial variables. Progress on this was made during 1989 when it
became standard practice for a Bank staff member to be a member of IMF missions.
78.  A major weakness of the program was the lack of any linkage (by way of conditionality/policy
measure) with public expenditure allocations. While an acceptable PIP was a second tranche
condition and the PIP was approved by donors at a Consultative Group meeting, the second tranche
was released despite some remaining weaknesses in the PIP. The PIP conditionality may not have
been taken seriously enough by the Government. Also in Somalia, where the recurrent government
budget allocates a minuscule amount to agriculture and most of the budget is spent on security needs,
a sector adjustment operation should not be attempted in future unless there is basic minimum
agreement at negotiations regarding improved (monitorable) public expenditure allocations to the
sector. Again this issue was addressed directly in ASAP IIL
I/ See Bank Report No. 8727-SO, "Somalia: Crisis in Public Expenditure Management", March
8, 1991.



- 28 -
79.  Finally, an important lesson from ASAP was that, despite the implementation of structural
measures in the agricultural sector, such as the decontrol of domestic trade in hides and skins, and
later the complete decontrol, these measures can not make an impact in an economy like Somalia if
adequate economic and financial policies are not being implemented. Probably the most important
lesson in Somalia was that completely Inadequate monetary restraint undermined the potential gains
from structural change. This Issue continued to bedevil the follow-up adjustment program in Somalia.



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Cr.1711/A20-SO)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I1DA was not able to obtain Part II due to the political turmoil and
security situation in the country.



Annex 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Cr. 1711-SO/A20-SO)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CREDIT DATA
As of (Date):
4/30/91
Original    Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid        Outstanding
- --SDR million----
Credit No.1711-S0   26.4          26.4_                      _
Credit A20-SO        28.7         28.7
Planned                           Actual
Initiating Memorandum        Jan. 24. 1986                  March 24, 1986
Letter of Development
Policy                                                    March, 1987 /2
Negotiations                 April 14. 1986                 April 22-25. 1986
Board Approval                                               June 19- 1986
Loan/Credit Agreement                 _                      June 24. 1986
Effectivoness                July 1986                      Auciust 25, 1986
Loan/Credit Closing          December 1988                  Decemnber 1989
Actual Coukpletion           December 31. 1988               December 31. 1988
CUMULATIVE LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
PY87    FY88   FY89   TOTAL      i
(i)    Planned (US$ million)                  7      23             30
(ii)   Actual  (US$ million)                14.24   13.13  5.85   33.22    k110%
(iii)  (Li) as % of (i)
(iv)   SPA Planned (US$ million)             25      7.6           32.6
(v)    SPA Actual  (US$ million)           1A.04   13.17  4.95   36.20    111%
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of    Staff   Date of
Supervision Mission          Month, Year      Weeks     Persons   Weeks   Report
Preparation                      7/86           1           1        1      7/30/86
Supervision                     10/86           1           1        1  _1217/86
supervision                      2187. 2_1                           2      5/17/87
Supervision                     5/87            4.         4        18      8/17/87
Supervision                     11/87           1           1        1     12/30/87
Supervision                      6/88                                       6/20/88
supervision                      7/8                                        S  8/1788
Supervision                      7/88                                   .  12/23188
Supervision                     11/89            1          1         1    12/89
supervision                    11/90             1      .  3          3    12/5/90 (BTO
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
(COUNTRY:    sO:AA         ) AdjuLtment Loan/Credit, Loan/Credit No.   2030   approve
on      6/2689       in thea amount of US$     70.0
JJ  A balance of about SDR 12,000 remains.  It has not been cancelled because the
account cannot be closed due to the political situation in the country that has
hindered the reconciliation of the special account.
1/ A letter of intent covering agricultural policy was a condition of
second tranche release.



* .IA
KEY ECOIOMIC IDICATOtS. 1960-1990
1960      1961       1902       1983       1984       1965       196       1967       19           1989         1990
Est        Proj
............................................. ..................................................................................................... .......... ............ .........*................ ............. ..... ..... ..._ ..._v..
(Growth rate in percent)
Real GDP at factor cost                   ..       3.32       5.22     -10.12       8.5X      7.5X       2.02       6.9X       0.12        -0.9X        -1.22
Real GDP at mrket prices                 ..        5.7X       4.12      -8.8X       3.62      8.22       3.4X       5.12      -0.62        -0.12        -2.62
Real GDP mrket prices per cap.            ..       2.8X       1.22     -11.32       0.62      5.02       0.4%       2.02      -3.42        -3.02        -5.42
Real dmestic corsuption. per cap         ..       11.62       4.02      -5.02      -2.72      -2.02      3.32      -3.62      -6.12         6.02        -7.6X
Real private consuption. poer cap.                 4.92      13.3%      -9.22      -0.62      -5.02     -1.32      -6.22      -2.12         3.72       -3.02
Nagarisho CPI (period avg.)               ..      44.6X      22.6%      36.42      92.22      37.82     35.8%      28.12      81.72       110.42       216.82
Nogadisho CPI (end period)             69.12      19.9%      34.02      48.92      82.02      30.42     30.72      42.1X    107.12        149.32       313.52
DOD, exct. "frozen debt (a USS)          ..      693.2      856.2      958.5    1324.7    1365.4    1499.2    1616.1    1668.9           1789.0       1579.9
Schaduled debt service (a USS)           ..         ..         ..       28.0      107.7      113.2     150.0      146.6      161.5        184.6       151.5
Debt service ratio                       ..         ..         ..         ..       93.72      80.22    128.2X    137.02    199.22         194.62       148.3X
Debt service/ImP                          ..        ..         ..        3.82      13.7X      12.92     16.12      14.52      15.62        16.92        16.72
Debt service ratio, after relief         ..         ..         ..         ..       93.72     49.82     128.22      91.42     135.52       194.62       148.32
Actuat cash debt service ratio           ..         ..         ..       114.9       9.62     35.4%      46.86      40.0X       7.62        27.1Z        17.52
Gross do . investment/V  P             42.42      27.6%      29.32      22.42      24.22      24.9%     23.82      28.7X      20.6%        20.82        12.6%
Pubtic investment/GWP                21.1%      17.72      11.62      17.62      13.42      15.82     15.82      17.5X      12.12        17.02        8.22
Private investment/GDP               21.32       9.9X      17.72       4.82      10.82      9.12       8.02      11.22       8.62         3.8X        4.42
Prv. fixed inwestment/GDP          21.92       5.42      13.52       8.82       9.32      6.22       7.02       6.42       2.72         3.22        3.8X
Public/total fixed investment          49.12      76.52      46.32      66.82      59.02     71.62      69.42      73.32      81.92        84.02       68.5X
Domestic savings/GDP                  -12.9Z     -16.0X    -12.82    -26.62    -22.3X    -11.5X    -16.6%    -10.12           -7.1X       -17.3Z       -20.2Z
Public dmetstic saving/GDP           -7.02     -10.92      -3.72      -8.72    -10.9X    -12.22    -15.5%    -18.42        -14.52       -18.12      -16.02
Private domestic saving/GOP          -5.9X      -5.12      -9.12     -18.02     -11.42      0.72      -1.12       8.32       7.32         0.82       -4.22
National savings/GOP                   -3.62      -7.52      -7.9X     -20.52    -18.82    -14.82    -22.52    -16.62    -12.3%           -24.82      -28.22
Pubtic national saving/GDP           -7.1%    -11.62       -5.22      -9.52     -16.52    -17.82    -22.02      -23.62    -20.32        -25.32      -24.02
Private national saving/GDP           3.52       4.12      -2.72     -11.02      -2.3%      3.02      -0.52       7.02       7.9X         0.52       -4.22
Private investment/saving ap           17.7X       5.82      20.42      15.82      13.12      6.12       8.42       4.22       0.62         3.3X        8.5X
Pubtic investment/saving gap           28.32      29.32      16.81      27.12      29.9X     33.52      37.9X      41.12      32.42        42.3Z       32.22
Goverrnent rev5ame/GDP                  8.2X      10.52       9.02      10.7X       5.7X      6.0X       7.82       6.02       5.7X        6.12         4.02
Revenue wad grants/GDP                 11.02      12.52      12.72      16.92       9.12     14.42      23.02      23.42      18.12        35.32       35.62
Totat Expenditure/GOP                  18.42      26.72      19.42      24.22      18.62     21.82      35.3X      35.22      28.62       45.42        36.82
Hon-Interest Dom estic Expend./GDP     13.52      22.6      15.0X      15.72      12.52      11.1%     13.72      15.42      12.02        13.52       14.3%
Overalt deficit/GOP (incl. grants)     -7.52     -14.22      -6.82      -7.32      -9.52     -7.42      -8.32    -11.82      -10.52       -10.0Z       -1.22
Overalt deficit/GOP (excl. grants)    -10.32    -16.22      -10.42     -13.5     -12.9X    -15.8X    -23.52    -29.32    -22.92          -39.32      -32.82
Revelm/(ordftaidentif-interest)        65.22      49.42      65.02      74.22      49.72     63.02      69.92      47.12      56.22       52.02        30.12
Export growth (real)                     ..      -15.2X      18.12     -18.92     -27.4%     61.42     -12.22       4.9X     -39.82        11.72        3.7Z
Exports/GOP                            22.22      16.32      17.72      13.62       7.9X     10.62      10.22       9.3X       5.62        6.22         7.62
import growth (real)                     ..       -8.92      16.32      -4.52      -8.22    -12.92      -6.22      -4.52     -37.8        51.32       -33.42
Imports/GDP   :                        76.42      60.42      62.52      61.32     51.62      40.82      42.31      40.82      26.52       37.9Z        31.92
Nn-project ifport growth                 ..      -10.2%      33.82     -18.02      -6.92    -29.52      -5.9X     -16.4X     -42.7X-      43.7Z         4.1X
Non-project import elasticity            ..       -3.1        6.4        1.8      -0.8       -4.0       -3.0       -2.4    -542.3        -49.0         -3.4
Currant account (a USS)              -134.7      -95.0    -131.1    -147.8    -146.3    -132.8    -125.7    -114.0           -98.4      -142.0       -102.3
Currmnt acc./GDP                      -22.32     * 13.6%    -16.92     -20.12    -18.62     -15.22     - 13.52    -11.32      -9.52       -13.02      -11.32
Curr. *cct.. exct. grants (m US6)    -277.7    -245.0    -2S8.1    -315.1    -338.5    -347.7    -430.7    -457.3    -342.5             -498.9       -370.0
Source: Satlis: Crisis in Public Expenditure Nuagement, Narch 8, 1991



ANNEX 3
SOMALIA
SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN EXCHANGE AUCTIONS
" ........     ............      ... ....  @0......
Source of Funds
.. .   .................................................... ............
IDA /
Auction  Auction           Total    SFA /                            Central     Private
No.      Date              Amount   SJF /     USAID        Italian   Bank        Sector
........  ......    .     ......... ........... ........  ....... . ......  ..........  ....... ...........  .......
1   Sep  1, '86         2.300    2.300
2    Sep 15             2.313    2.313
3    Oct  1, '86        2.300    2.300
4    Oct 16             2.300    2.300
5    Nov  1, '86        2.300    2.300
6    Nov 17             2.300    1.900                            (.400) s1
7    Dec  1, '86        2.300    1.900                            (.400) a/
8    Dec 16             1.900    1.900
9    Jan  3. '87        1.906    1.900                                         0.006
10    Feb 3, '87         2.900    0.833      1.667       0.400
11    Feb 16             2.400    0.667      1.333       0.400
12    Mar  1, '87        2.900    0.833      1.667       0.400                  0.030
13    Mar 16             2.420    0.667      1.333       0.400                  0.020
14    Apr  1, '87        2.986    0.833      1.667       0.400                  0.086
15    Apr 16             2.440    0.667      1.333       0.400                  0.040
16    May  2. '87        2.9biO    0.833     1.667       0.400
17    May 16             2.400    1.667      0.333       0.400
18    Jun  3, 087        2.900    2.500                  0.400
19    Jun 16             2.400    2.000                  0.400
20    Jul  2. '87        2.900    2.500                  0.400
21    Jul 16             2.900    2.500                   0.400
22    Aug  1, 87        2.900    2.500                  0.400
23    Aug 16             2.900   2.500                    0.400
24    Sep 2. '87         3.200    3.000     (.840) bJ    0.200   (.760) c/
25    Sep 16             3.200    3.200     (.840) b/             (.760)  c/
26    Nov 14, '88        6.000    6.000
27   Dec 8               4.000    4.000
28    Jan 11i  89        4.000    4.000
29    Feb  8             4.000    4.000
30    Mar 8, '89         4.500    4.500
Total                      87.065   69.313     11.000        5.800     0.800 af    0.182
............................................. ............................................................................ P. 
a/ In the event the Central Bank contributed only $5.42 million because It regarded
its contribution as being $8 million net of the unusd amount tS.258 million).
Hence, totals are not adjusted.
b/ These  munts were conmitments by USAID. Because of delays in negotiating the ESF
agreemnt between the US and Somali governments, these amounts were not deposited
into the auction special account before the cancellation of auctfons In September 198
The IDA/SFA/SJF contribution was Increased accordingly.
c/ These amounts were not deposited by the Central Bank and hence the IDAISFWISJF contri
lrcreased to coepensate.



SOW.IA
AGRICILURAL 'ECT(3 ADJUSTIEN  PROGRAM
... ..._. .._................
RESULTS CF FOREIGN BtCHAGE AUCTIONS
............ ........................ _._...... ...... ........... ......... .................._____.... ......_ . ........._. _......._. .............. .... .... .... ...... .. .._. .... ...._...... .
Requsted              Allocated       Applicants
lAct        Amuot   as 2 of       Awbmt  as X of -................. Average I   Official            Inport   Auction as
Date           Month     Fux5ed by   Offered    Requsted  Offered   Allocated  Requested Elisible Success- Effective    Exchange   Account  X of Import
uS$        U$          %         Us$         X                ful     Auction Rate   Rate       Exch. Rate  Account
............. .......................... .. .......................... .... ...... 0.... ............................. ........................................................... ...... .................. ........... ......
1/9/86       Sept. 1936     IDA       2,3C0,000   2.300,000        100  2,300,000       100     100       22          117.1        83.3          128         91
16/9/86      Spt. 1986      IDA       2,313.000   2,313,000        100  2,313,000       100    69         39          111.2        83.3          137         81
1/10/86      Oct. 1986      IDA       2.300,000   2,300,000        100  2,300.00        100     73        34          106.8        87.4         132          81
161101/      Oct. 1986      IDA       2,300,000   2,300,000        100  2,300,000       100    85         49           99.8        87.4         137          73
1/11/86      Rcv. 1966      IDA       2,300,000   2,300,000        100  2,300,000       100     &         32           96.5        91.4         133          73
17/11/86     NCv. 19S6   IDA/CBS    2,300,000   2,300,000          100  2.300.000       100    93         32           99.9        91.4         13'4         75
2/12/66      Dec. 1966   IDA/CBS      2,300,000   2,300,800        100   2,300,000      100     118       20          105.5        91.4          136          78
16f12/86     Dec. 1966      IDA       1.900,000   1,90B,OQC        100   1,900,000      100     109       25          113.3        91.4         136          83
3/1/87       Jan. 1987     IDA/PS     1,906,000   1,906,00t        100   1,906,000      100    91         20          122.3i       91.4          136         90
16/1/87      Jan. 1967                                                                                                  oat        91.4    145 bb/
3/2/87       Feb. 1987  IDA/USAIDtIT  2,900,000   2,900,000        100  2,900.000       100     71        51          125.4        91.4         149          84
16/2/87      Feb. 1987  IDAIUSAID/IT  2,400,000  2,400,000         100  2.400,000       100    71         36          t19.8        91.4         145          83
1/3/87       Mar. 1967  IDA/USAID/IT  2,930,000   2,930,000        10G   2.930,000      100    69         44          118.7        91.4         145          82
16/3/87      Mar. 1967  IDA/USAID/IT  2,420,000   2,420,000        100  2,420,000       100    S1         27          119.5        91.4         148          81
1/4187       Apr. 1987  IDA/USAID/IT  2,986,000   2,986,000        100  2,986,000       100     104       32          123.2        91.4         150          82
16/4/87      Apr. 1987  IDAIUSAID/IT  2,440,000   2,440,00         100  2.440,000       100     107       23          128.6        91.4         152          85
2/5/87       May 197  IDAIUSAID/IT  2,900,000  2,900W,00           100  2,900,000       100     114       36          135.0        91.4          155         87
16/5/87       May 1967  IDA/USAIDjIT  2,400,000   2,400,000        100  2,400,000       100    80         30          144.5        91.4         160          90
3/6/87       Jun. 1987   IDA/ITALY    2,900,000   2,909,000        100  2,900,000       100    66         61          146.0        91.4         160          91
15/6/87      Jun. 1987   IDA/ITALY    2,400,000   2,400,000        100  2,400,000       100    60         48          133.1        91.4         174
2/7/87       Jul. 1987   IDA/ITALT   2,900,000   2,900,000         100  2.900,000       100     114       51          132.6         bbJ         bb/
1617/a7      Jul. 1987  IDAITALY    2,900,000   2,900,000          100  2,900,000       100    n.a.       40          130.3           -
1/8/87       Aug. 1967  1IA/ITALT    2,900,000   2,900,000         100  2,900,000       100    95         33          137.9
16/8/87      Aug. 1967   IDA/ITALY    2.900,000   2,900,000        100  2,900,000       100     110       37          140.8 a                     -
2/9/87       Sept. 1987  IDA/ITALY    3,200,00D   3,200,000        100  3,200,000       100     144       42          148.6           -
16/9187      Sept. 1967  IDA/ITALY    3,200,000   3,200,000        100  3,200,000       100   n.a.       n.a.         159.8           -           -
14/11/88 s/  Nov. 1958      IDA       6,000,000   4,782,413         80  4,782,413       100     57        57          278.0         257         400          70
8/12/88 b/ Dec. 1988        IDA       4,000,000   5,089,079        127  4,000,000        79    49         49          296.0         263         424           70
111/89 el  Jan. 1969        IDA       4,000,000   3,757,750         94   3,757,750      100    35         35          296.0         271         401          74
8/2/89 d/  Feb. 1989        EEC       4,000,000   2,460,767         62   2,460,767      100     25        25          294.0         277         415           71
83/89  *1  Mar. 1989        IDA       4,500,OWO   5,780,766        128  4,500,000        78    65         65          349.0         309         450           78
TOTAL                                87,095,000  86,465,775             84,095,930
.............................. ................................................................ ............... ..... 
'*  The stwvird neative list (SIlL) is shomn in the credit agreJ mlents (1711-S0,A-20-S0) + amendments as sho*n in the lortd Bank letter of -teber 3, 1988
"/ No action
Lb/ Start of unif ied exchang  rate bed an auction                                                                                                                  x
a/  SilL    d     to allow Food iqorts in sale in lov. 1988
b/  SllL
c/  SIUL    d     to allBo Costruction mteriats in sale Jan. 1989 and in subsequent sates
di   EEC neptive list used In sale no. 4
1/  SIIL tless Construction Materials) mrded to allow WAeat, Wheat Flour, Sugar, Rice in March 1989 and in subsequent sates



ANNE3X 5
Page 1 of 2
SOMALJA
SumMa  of Status of Covenants
Covenant                    g                                       Action Taken
Section 3.01(a)         Objectives of credit as described in        Up to September 1987, the GOS
schedule, namely to support                implemented all aspects of the program.
macroeconomic reform; increase role of      But the announcement by the Govemment
private sector in the economy including     on September 17 to cancel foreign
improving supply of agricultural inputs;    exchange auctions, set an official fixed
and strengthen institutions responsible for  exchange rate of SoSh. 100 per US$1.00,
reforms in agriculture.                     and introduce price controls on numerous
consumer products undermined the
macroeconomic reforms being undertaken
by the Govemment. In mid 1988 the
GOS returned to the reform program.
Auctions and other aspects of the program
were continued.
Section 3.01(b)         Implementation of the credit according to   The foreign exchango auctions (the main
Schedule 5.                                 disbursement mechanism) were cancelled
by the Government on September 17,
1987. The a7uctions were reintroduced
in November 1988 when the Government
returned to the macroeconomic reform
program.
Setion 3.03             The Government should follow the            All the necessary procedures were
provisions of Schedule 3 for procurement.   followed. The administrative
arrangements for the foreign exchange
auction were amended in alte 1988.
Section 3.04            The Government should establish a           An aecount was established, a parallel
project account in the CSBS.                account was also established in the
Centra Bank.
Section 3.05            ONAT should periodically adjust rentaf      ONAT periodically adjusted rental rates,
rates and gradually move tonvards full      and according to its own data reached full
cost recovery.                              comt recovery at the end of October 1990.
Section 3.06            The Government should submit by end         There was a delay in getting agreement to
September 1987 to IDA guidelines for the    the bid evaluation and contract for the
implementation of actions to improve the    study which would review ADC and ENC
operational efficiency of ADC and ENC.      activities. The final report was not
completed until June 1989.
Section 3.07            The Government will net domestic diesel     Accurate data to determine precise parity
fuel prices in line with at least the c.i.f.  price was difficult to obtain. In addition
prices of imported diesel.                 the price of imported fuel was not always
apparent. Checks made from time to time
indicated that the GOS was not always in
compliance.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
ovenant                 Covenant Obiective                          Action Taken
Reaeence
Seotion 3.08            The Government should submit to IDA         The Government provided IDA with the
for review principles on minimum buying     principles and implemented them.
prices by ADC for maize and sorghum;
the use of predtrmined floor prices at
food aid auctions; and transaction prices
between the Ministry of Finance and the
Govemment institutions for concessional
grain imports at no less than those at the
latest food aid auction.The Govemment
provided IDA with the principles and
implemented them.
Section 3.09            The Government should take all              The Government met this covenant at
appropriate measures to ensure that         effectiveness and private traders are
topical veterinary antibiotics and other    importing eligible veterinary drugs. A
approved drugs may be imported and          report by a local consultant retained by
traded by qualified private importers.     the Bank suggest  that decontrol had not
been completed as envisaged.
Section 3.10            The Government shall undertake a study      The study was undertaken and completed
of the hides and skins industry and         and used during negotiations for the
provide IDA with the study.                 second tranche.
Section 3.11            The Government and IDA will exchange        Frequent discussions have been held with
views on the project and the Govemment      the Govemment on implementation and
will provide information reasoziably        policy issues. These discussions have
sought by IDA.                              been open and frank. The credit provided
the basis for a wide ranging dialogue.
Section 4.01            The Government should maintain              Adequate accounts were maintained.
adequate accounts and provide audited       Audits were done but not within the
accounts.                                   specified time periods. The audits
revealed no major problems. The final
audit was prepared, but due to civil
hostilities approval by the Govemment
has been delayed, A major problem
arose with the use of $3.4 million by the
GOS for ineligible expenditures from the
Special Accounts. Eventually these
monies were retumed and the suspension
on replenishment of the accounts was
lifted.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
SO MALTA
AGRICULTRAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Preliminarv Traiining Proeram for Staff of the Central Department of Statistics
Educational           % of                                   Training
Name                                          time    Future Tasks         RmuirMn
Local TLaini
National Accns
Abukar Moallia          MSc Statistics         40%    Questionnaire design            Wordstar 2000
Mursal                  USA                            Data scrutiny                  Lotus 1-2-3
Drafting reports               National accounts
concept
Abdulkadir Abdi         BA Economics           100%    Questionnaire design           Wordstar 2000
Mohamed                 Somlia                         Data collection                Lotus 1-2-3
Data scrutiny                  National account
Data entry                    concepts
' Tabulations
Drafting reports
Abdishkur Sheikh        BA Economics           100%    Data collection                Lotus 1-2-3
Ali                     Somalia                        Data entry                     National accounts
concepts
Ind-wst   Sttsti
Mohamud Said            BSc Statistics         50%    Updating frame of               Lotus 1-2-3
Mohamud                 India                          industries                     Wordstar 2000
Data collection               Ind Stats concepts
Data scrutiny
Data entry
Computer editing
Tabulations
Hashim Abu              Secondary school       100%    Data collection                English
Mohamed                                                Data scrutiny                  Ind Stats concepts
Data entry                     Lotus 1-2-3
Salah Abdi              Secondary school       100%  - Data collection                Ind Stats ccncepts
Data scrutiny



Atnnex 6
Page 2 of 2
Educational           % of                                  Training
Background           time    Future Tasks                   RMEgre_ments
Mohamud Said            See above             50%    Review of data coil.           Lotus 1-2-3
Mohmud                                               form
Data scrutiny
Data entry
Prep. of tables and
graphs
Mohamed Sherif          Secondary School      100%    Review of data coil.          English
Sheikh                                                form
Data collection
Data scrutiny
Data entry
Inteational Training
Habiba Ali Aden         Studies towards Master of Economics at
Vanderbilt Univorsity, Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.A.



