Downmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C P?. /)//- Se
Report No. P-4265-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Tu THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 26.4 MILLION (US$30.0 MILLION) AND A
PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 28.7 MILLION (US$32.6 MILLION)
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
IN SUPPORT OF AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -   Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
US$1.00             -   So.Sh. 66.50 (Official rate at May 1, 1986)
Note: There are also two other recognized exchange rates: a
commercial rate determined by the CSBS which is used for
levying import duties, for tourists and other smaller
transactions; and a free market rate determined by the
average of foreign exchange transactions between external
account holders in the CSBS. At May 1, 1986, these rates
were about So.Sh 85 and 150, respectively, to US$1.00.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)           -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 Sq. kilometer (km2)      =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I Hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acres (ac)
I Metric ton (m ton)       =   2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC       =   Agricultural Development Corporation
AIP       =   Agricultural Inputs Program
CIDA      =   Canadian International Development Agency
CG        =   Consultative Group
CIP       =   Commodity Import Program
CSBS      =   Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
ENC       =   National Commercial Agency (Ente Nazionale
Commercio)
FEAC      =   Foreign Exchange Auction Committee
FRG       =   Federal Republic of Germany
GOS       =   Government of Somalia
HASA      =   Hides and Skins Agency
ICB       =   International Competitive Bidding
MNP       =   Ministry of National Planning
MOA       =   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF       =   Ministry of Finance
MTRP      =   MediumrTerm Recovery Program
ODA       =   Overseas Development Administration
ONAT      =   Tractor Hire Agency (Organizzazione Nazionale
Agricultura Trattore)
PIP       =   Public Investment Program
PPF       =   Project Preparation Facility
PU        =   Procurement Unit
SDB       =   Somali Development Bank
SFA       =   Special Facility for Sub-Sabaran Africa
SOMPET    =   National Petroleum Agency
SJF       =   Special Joint Financing
SPPF      =   Special Project Preparation Facility
USAID     =   United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFF0CIL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:       Somali Democratic Republic
Amount:          IDA Credit:  SDR 26.4 million (US$30 million equivalent);
and the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa Credit:
SDR 28.7 million (US$32.6 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:  Agricultural producers, agro-industry, rural wage earners,
and importers of productive goods and services.
Terms:          Standard for IDA and the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Cofinancing:    £ 5 million (US$7.4 million equivalent) Special Joint
Financing through a grant from the United Kingdom.
Program Description:
The program will finance recurrent import requirements of
the Somali economy in support of significant policy
reforms.  These reforms include the establishment of an
auction system for the allocation of foreign exchange, the
elimination of subsidies on diesel fuel and tractor
rentaJls, the further liberalization of agricultural
marketing, and the expansion of private sector
participation in supplying and distributing inputs to the
economy. The program will also provide technical
assistance for strengthening key Government institutions,
mainly in agriculture.
Program Benefits:
The policy measures relating to the agricultural sector in
the program are expected to promote increased domestic
production, particularly of grains, improve the marketing
of grains, hides and skins, and expand the role of the
private sector. These policy measures are also expected to
result in increased exports, mainly from the livestock and
banana subsectors. These results would in turn lead to
increases in income and employment in the agricultural
sector, including agro-industry. The establishment of an
auction system for foreign exchange would result in more
efficient allocation of resources within the economy, and
would augment productive output of the economy as a whole
by providing a reliable source of financing for imported
recurrent inputs. Finally, the program would strengthen
Government institutions involved in domestic grain
marketing, food aid management, and statistical analysis.
hidomument ha a nsaced distibution and may be ud by ients only in the pufonnmace
of the ofkid dutuiest contents may not odrwe be diwced wihout Wodd Bank autborion I



- ii -
Program Risks:
One risk is that the funds available for the foreign
exchange auction may not be adequate to stabilize the
exchange rate and consequently lead to a lack of confidence
in the auction system.  However, given the Governmentts
improved demand management policies, the amounts provided
are considered adequate to cover that risk. Another risk
is that agricultural production may not expand in response
to the increased incentives. However, the impact of
increased incentives over the past three years provides
evidence that a response will occur.
Estimated Costs
Component                          IDA     SPA        SJF       Total
-S million)
Part A - Importation of
Goods and Materials
by Public and Private
Sector Enterprises
(a) Goods & Materials         20.0    22.6        7.4        50.0
(b) Diesel fuel and
Lubricant Imports
by SOMPET                      6.7      6.7         -        13.4
Part B - Imports of Inputs by
Goverment Ministries            1.7     3.3        -          5.0
Part C - Technical Assistance            1.6      -          -          1.6
30.0    32.6        7.4       70.0
Estimated Annual Disbursements
Credit             FY1987          FY1988
--- -($ million)
IDA                  7.0            23.0
SFA                 25.0             7.6
SJF                  3.7             3.7
Total               35.7            34.3
Map No. IBRD 15413(R)



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
70 THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND
A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit'the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 26.4 (US$30 million
equivalent) and a proposed Special Facility for Africa Credit for SDR 28.7
(US$32.6 million equivalent) on standard terms to finance an Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program. Special Joint Financing of £ 5 million (US$7.4
million equivalent) would be provided by the Government of the United
Kingdom.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the economy entitled: "Somalia - Towards Economic
Recovery and Growth' (Report No. 5584-SO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in August 1985.
The Resource Base
3.        Somalia is large and sparsely populated.  It occupies most of the
northeast 'horn' of Africa, a location of some strategic significance. Its
varied topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains
and plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and uncertain rainfall.
Its population of about 5.3 million is unevenly distributed over a land
area of nearly 638,000 sq km of semi-desert. There is as yet no census,
but there is evidence of heavy migration to the capital, Mogadishu.
Population growth in recent years is estimated to have been about 3 percent
per annum (excluding refugee inflows) which will result in long-term
pressure on the fragile resource base. Only about 13 percent of the land
is suitable for cultivation, but with water the main constraint, only a
small fraction of this area (8.5 percent) is cultivated. The country has
only two rivers of any consequence. The waters of the Shebelli reach the
sea only in exceptional years. Upstream the river is used in some areas
for irrigation, albeit inefficiently. Considerable rehabilitation work is
required for those irrigation systems. The Government proposes to control
the Juba through construction of a large multi-purpose dam at Bardhere.
The dam would assist flood control and the water would be used for the
generation of electricity and for irrigation. The Bank is at present
analyzing the technical and economic issues associated with this enormous
project.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
About 50 percent of the population are nomads and semi-nomads who depend on
livestock for their livelihood. Livestock production accounts for about 35



-2-
percent of GDP and provides about 80 percent of export earnings. Virtually
all livestock exports go on the hoof through the country's three main
ports: Mogadishu, Berbera, and Kismayo. Crop production generates about 8
percent of GDP.
5.        Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export cf bananas and
the production of sugar, sorghum, and maize for the domestic market.
.Expansion of the manufacturing and service sectors, much of which is quite
heavily protected, is limited by the small size of the domestic market,
poor infrastructure, and shortages of capital and entrepreneurial
experience. The existence of several minerals has been confirmed, but
their exploration is still at da early stage.
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in onshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. Investigations for natural gas, under an IDA
credit, have proved disappointing. In the absence of other known resources,
Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development,
whose progress will depend upon careful management of the scarce land and
water resources, and improvements in animal health.
7.        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at $265 in 1982. Other indicators of the country's
low level of social and economic development include: a crude death rate
estimated at 20 per thousand population (compared to a crude birth rate of
50 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 45 years; an infant
mortality rate as high as 142 per thousand population; primary and
secondary enrolment ratios of 30 percent and 11 percent, respectively; and
a ratio of nearly 16,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of scientific socialism- whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
and which dominated manufacturing.
9.        In the early 1970s Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
notable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health, where services have frequently been biased in favor of the urbrn
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.



- 3-
10.       During the 1970s the Somali economy  experienced stagnation in
production and a decline in per capita income. Only the services sector
grew during the period, by 3.5 percent per year and the growth in
government services, at an annual rate of about 7 percent, was particularly
striking. Beginning in 1981, the economy witnessed a reversal of the past
trend, with real GDP in 1981-82 growing on average by 6.4 percent per year
notwithstanding some declfne in the services sector.
11.       Over 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the Gulf area,
which has led to severe depletion of Somalia's already small stock of
qualified and skilled manpower. The savings of these emigrants are
potentially an important resource for the economy, but despite major
adjustments to the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants'
savings is remitted, largely through unofficial channels.
12.       Following a border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78, there was a
great surge in Government expenditures which resulted in widened deficits
in both the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the
Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of
the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill
associated with the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for
secondary school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid
declined. This resulted in Government recourse to deficit financing. With
further deterioration in the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's
recourse to the Central Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of
GDP). This, in turn, led to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60
percent in 1980.
13.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete,
but it seems that the country had a reasonably comfortable overall balance
of payments position up to the beginning of 1979. The stagnation in
exports and surge in imports since 1979 resulted in a widening of both the
current and overall balance of payments deficits. The current account
deficit during 1980-83 averaged $290 million, as compared to $110 million
in the years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which rose steadily in
the 1970s to $158 million in Maich 1979, dropped to $15 million at the end
of December 1980, and have since dwindled to nearly zero.
14.       The stagnation of export earnings and the near zero level of
domestic savings have rendered Somalia entirely dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a successful effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. After 1977, the sources of foreign
assistance shifted from the centrally planned economies (except for the
People's Republic of China, which maintains a large program) towards Arab
bilateral and multilateral institutions and OECD countries, several of
which have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
According to OECD data, Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period
1980-1982 averaged nearly $400 million per year, equivalent to some $75 per
capita per year.



-4-
15.       Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amounted to about $1.4 billion at end 1984. The structure and terms of
borrowing have also hardened. The debt service ratio in terms of
obligations rose from 7 percent in 1979 to nearly 50 percent in 1983 and is
projected at about 100 percent in 1986. The country also has accumulated
debt service arrears. The problem of arrears has not been fully resolved
by the debt rescheduling at the Paris Club in March 1985. IMF and World
Bank staff have encouraged the Government to seek further debt relief where
possible on concessional terms.
Policy Changes
16.       As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the
Government became convinced of the need to take remedial action and
embarked on a course of moving towards a more market-oriented economy.
Beginning in early 1981, the Government successfully implemented two
successive stabilization programs supported by IMF standby arrangements.
The measures taken under these programs included adjustment of the exchange
rate, fiscal and monetary restraint, and significant liberalization of
agricultural marketing. Under the first standby program, a dual exchange
rate was introduced, producer prices for agricultural crops were increased,
and banana growers received the full benefit of devaluation. This program
also involved a substantial reduction in Government recouwse to the banking
system and increased interest rates.
17.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, a new
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with an
SDR 60 million 18-month standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. The dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982,
the Somali shilling was again devalued, interest rates were raised, and
fiscal and monetary expansion was restricted. In January 1983, a bonus
scheme was introduced providing for a premium of 25 percent in foreign
exchange terms of inward remittances and capital inflows by Somali
nationals. In mid-1983, a more flexible exchange rate system was
introduced whereby the Somali shilling was pegged to the SDR adjusted by
the relative rates of inflation between Somalia and the five countries in
the SDR basket.
18.       The Government decided in 1983 to abandon its policy of
guaranteed employment to high school leavers. The Government is in the
process of determining which public enterprises should be phased out of
operation, which privatized, and which retained in the public sector.
Another step to liberalize the economy was the de facto elimination of the
Government monopoly on purchases of domestically produced grain.
19.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government from 1981-83 had
a positive impact on the economy. Reductions were effected in the rate of
growth of the money supply, in Government recourse to the banking system,
and in the rate of inflation. There was also some increase in commodity
production and exports.   These measures represented the first stage in the
formulation and implementation of a policy agenda directed at restoring
financial equilibrium, renabilitating and making fuller use of existing
agricultural and industrial productive capacity, and establishing the
foundations for long-term growth.



-5-
20.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia. It prepared a Medium Term
Recovery Program (MTRP) for the Consultative Group meeting, consisting of
(i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring the balance of
payments and public finances and at rationalizing the pricing and incentive
structure; and (ii) a resource-constrained Public Investment Program (PIP)
for the period 1984-86. The formulation of this recovery program
represented a major accomplishment.
21.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held in October 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial policy
measures taken by the Government. They welcomed in particular the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program. These adjustments included postponing some new
projects pending results of new studies, rephasing the implementation of
ongoing projects and introducing new high-priority schemes such as the
rehabilitation of irrigation in the Shebelli region. It was recognized at
the meeting that further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly
concessional terms and that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief on
concessional terms.
22.       Following the Consultative Group Meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors were held concerning follow-up action on
the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed Bardhere Dam,
and agreement was reached with the Bank on terms of reference and timetable
for a study of interim water solutions, financed under the first IDA
Technical Assistance Credit. A USAID financed Civil Service Study has been
reviewed by the Government and arrangements for follow-up are being made.
23.       The progress in financial stabilization and economic recovery
during 1981-83 suffered a major setback in 1984 due to the ban by Saudi
Arabia against cattle imports from Somalia, the drought of 1983 as well as
the Government's failure to make further policy reforms. Exports
plummeted, inflation reached a record high and debt service arrears
increased further in 1984.
Recent Economic Developments
24.      Faced with mounting external and internal imbalances in 1984, the
Government embarked in early 1985 on a comprehensive economic and financial
program supported by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement for SDR 22.1 million and
compensating financing facility of SDR 32.6 million in a total amount
equivalent to SDR 54.7 million. The program was a bold and ambitious
undertaking aimed at stabilizing the economy and raising the rate of
economic growth by fostering a more market-oriented economy.
25.      During the first three quarters of 1985, the Government adhered
closely to the agreed terms of the program by dismantling all price
controls, adopting more liberal marketing policies, removing all
restrictions with respect to foreign trade, undertaking a major devaluation
of the official exchange rate, introducing a freely floating exchange rate
for most private transactions, providing export incentives through



-6-
increased acceptance of the free exchange market, and pursuing a tight
monetary and fiscal policy. These measures combined with favorable weather
conditions led to increased agricultural production, a reduced inflation
rate, and the expansion of livestock and banana exports.
26.      This performance, however, was overshadowed by a substantial and
growlng deflcit in the officlal foreign exchange budget which stemmed from
some slippages in the implementation of program measures, a considerable
delay in the release of previously agreed external assistance to finance
the balance of payments gap for 1985, and shortfalls in the level of
foreign exchange receipts, particularly from workers' remittances which
shrank because of the more difficult employment conditions in the Gulf
States. The acute shortage of foreign exchange resulted in substantial
shortfalls from the target level of imports and the emergence of new
external payment arrears, including to the IMF. These arrears, in turn,
led to the inability of Somalia to draw on all resources negotiated under
the stand-by arrangement and to reduced drawings on loans from various
international organizations and governments, thereby compounding the
balance of payments financing problems and causing a halt to many
development projects.
The Consultative Group Meeting of November, 1985
27.      At the second Consultative Group (CG) meeting, held in Paris on
November 5 and 6, 1985, the Government presented to the donor community its
'National Development Strategy and Programme" containing the three-year
(1986-88) public investment program (PIP). Bank staff reviewed the
proposed PIP and, in view of limitations of implementation capacity, the
urgency of need to confine investments to high priority projects and
Somalia's balance of payments and overall growth prospects, recoumended a
"core" PIP of around $600 million over the three-year period (compared with
the Government's proposed PIP of $685 million). This was also endorsed by
donors who commended the Government for the adjustment measures it had
taken and strongly supported the Government's development strategy that
emphasized public investment focussed on rehabilitation of existing
capacity, and economic policy reform to improve efficiency and promote the
private sector.
28.      It was further stressed at the CG meeting that the success of the
Government to sustain and strengthen the implementation of the adjustment
and reform program and therefore to enhance the prospect for attaining a
viable balance of payments position in the mediumrterm would continue to
depend closely on the type, level, and timeliness of donor support.
29.      In this regard, and in order to raise resources needed to finance
the projected balance of payments gap for 1986, the Bank requested donor
assistance in amount of $426 million to be disbursed in that year, divided
between projects ($160 million), food support ($45 million), petroleum
assistance ($20 million), other commodity aid ($50 million), cash aid ($30
million) and debt relief ($121 million). With the exception of shortfalls
in aid pledged in the form cf petroleum and cash, donors responded
favorably in providing assistance in all other respects - indeed, the
targets for project and food assistance were oversubscribed.



-7-
January 1986 Agreements with IMF
30.      At the time of the CG meeting, the 1985 stand-by arrangement with
the Fund was still suspended, but understandings were reached between the
Fund staff and the Somali authorities on policy measures needed to be
instituted by the authorities to improve Somalia's precarious balance of
payments situation. This was followed by a Fund mission (with Bank staff
participation) to Somalia during January 5-12, 1986 to discuss with the
authorities comprehensive adjustment measures that could permit completion
of the review of the stand-by arrangements. The mission found that despite
some slippages in the implementation of the agreed stand-by program that
had occurred because of the acute shortage of foreign exchange,
developments under the program had shown an important degree of success in
various areas.
31.       The new price and marketing policies had had a positive impact on
agriculture produrtion. The increase in production is estimated to have
resulted in at least a four percent increase in real GDP, while the better
supply conditions together with the more cautious fiscal and monetary
policy pursued by the Government had led the rate of inflation to decline
to about 30 percent, compared to 82 percent in 1984. The pricing policies
had had a particularly favorable impact on exports, which are estimated to
have increased by about 78 percent over the depressed 1984 level.
Especially notable is the almost doubling of livestock exports, despite the
continued ban of Somali cattle exports to Somalia's traditional market.
32.       On the fiscal policy side, although revenue collections have
fallen considerably below the target established in the program for 1985,
in part because imports fell 24 percent below the initial estimate, the
Government has made every effort to restrain expenditure so that the
overall deficit for 1985 is presently estimated at 3.4 percent of GDP
compared to a target under the stand-by arrangement of 2.2 percent. Given
the difficulties encountered, this outcome reflects considerable effort on
the part of Government to meet the established objectives. On April 23,
1986, after the GOS paid its arrears, the Board of the IMF approved a
reinstatement of the 1985 Stand-by Arrangement. It is expected that
agreement will be reached for a continuation of the 1985 adjustment program
for 1986 and beyond.
33.      The Government of Somalia intends to' strengthen the program
further in order to improve the success of the adjustment effort. It has
agreed inter alia (i) to implement the gradual exchange rate unification
policy in order to ensure complete unification by the end of 1986; (i1) to
unify the commercial rate with the free market rate and to levy import
duties on the basis of this unified rate rather than the commercial rate
presently used, providing increased restraint on imports and additional
revenue for the budget; (iii) to raise the interest rates to bring deposit
rates to the expected inflation rate for 1986 to mobilize domestic
resources; and (iv) to increase petroleum prices monthly in order to reach
full import parity in April 1986 for gasoline and June 1986 for diesel,
and, in line with the objective to liberalize the economy, authorize the
private sector to import and distribute petroleum products. Gasoline
prices achieved full import parity in April and in May diesel prices had
achieved about 80 percent of full import parity.



-8-
34.      The current exchange system is already providing considerable
incentives for exports, which are projected to increase by about 20 percent
in 1986. Remittances from Somali workers abroad are also significant when
consideration is given to the difficult labor conditions in the Gulf
States. However, in t.;e short-term, it is not feasible to foresee
increases in export earnings of the magnitude necessary to close the
projected balance of payments gap for 1986, and for the next few years. At
the same time, the reduction in imports which has occurred since 1981 has
meant that further significant reductions in import volumes are likely to
have a very negative impact on economic activity and growth prospects.
Consequently, for the next few years Somalia must rely on special donor
assistance for achieving the objectives of its economic adjustment and
reform program and a sustainable balance of payments situation.
35.       An important aspect of the LMF program is directed at adjustments
in the official exchange rate to bring it into line with a market
determined rate. The GOS has accepted the principle of exchange rate
realignments. It has for some time also supported an informal market in
foreign exchange for transactions between external account holders in the
Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia. This is a relatively thin market
in relation to the demand for dollars by the commercial sector and the
Government. The volume of transactions is estimated to be about $4 million
per month.'/ Under present conditions the demand for foreign exchange
places heavy pressure on the supply in this market. This imbalance has
caused a devaluation of the Somali shilling against the US dollar of about
50 percent over the last 18 months in the free market. Expectations that
the Somali shilling will continue to depreciate against the US dollar is
resulting in severe pressures on the relatively small supply of dollars.
These pressures have been exacerbated by a strong demand by the GOS for
dollars to finance its repayment obligations.
36.       A realistic, relatively stable, exchange rate is an important
part of the Government's economic management.  However, exchange rate
adjustments alone will not lead to a recovery in the Somali economy. For
example, while a continued devaluation may stimulate export oriented
subsectors such as livestock, the increased production potential will be
limited (paragraph 47) and is not going to meet the financial resource
needs for the economy in the short run. Firm measures are needed to
improve productivity i_ the economy which could lead to both lower domestic
inflation and better prospects for export pioduction or import
substitution. Such structural adjustmen in the economy should be an
important part of the GOS long-term objectives and could be achieved in
large part in agriculture by improved policy measures, research, extension,
credit and investment. Some progress can be made in the short run, but it
will not be enough to relieve the pressures on the external account, and
therefore some more immediate action to improve the availability of foreign
exchange is required.
1/ This compares with the value of exports which, under the current export
surrender requirements, other estimated repatriation of export income
and transfers of various kinds, may total about $8 million per month.
The value of all imports, including food aid, is about $40 million per
month.



-9-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
37.       Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date total US$251 million,
consisting of 29 IDA credits and two IFC investments. Fourteen projects
are under implementation. Annex II summarizes the status of the Bank
operations in Somalia. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has been
for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided among education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. An Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP I) was approved
in FY85 and a Livestock Health Services Project in FY86. The IFC
investments in Somalia are a US$375,000 loan for a molasses terminal for
the Juba Sugar Project and Su. Fr.1,550,000 for a polypropylene bag
project.
38.       Progress in implementing development projects in Somalia has been
mixed. Some projects have suffered from over-ambitious design, and
co-financing arrangements have caused some difficulties. Achievements in
the North West Region Agricultural-Development Project - Phase I have been
good, and the main production targets estimated at appraisal have been met
or exceeded. Nevertheless, projects for roads, ports, water and education
have been more successful than in the agricultural sector. Staffing and
management problems have, however, impeded effective preparation and
implementation of many projects..
39.       Somalia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been satisfactory. The FY85 disbursement rate was 33.5
percent, as compared to 21.9 percent for Eastern and Southern Africa and
22.0 percent Bank/IDA-wide.
IDA Strategy
49.       Assistance to the Government to devise and implement policies and
programs to improve the efficiency of both the public and private sectors,
to improve the macroeconomic framework for domestic and external resource
mobilization and allocation, improve pricing policy and marketing systems,
ajd to increase production and exports will be continued. IDA will support
further use of existing capacity and to help lay the foundations for longer
term growth.   Issues in public enterprise reform are expected to become an
increasingly important component of policy dialogue, and the Government
will be supported in its stated policy of disposing of unviable public
enterprises and stimulating the private sector.
41.       IDA will be giving particular attention to aid coordination and
management issues and it has already undertaken an assessment of technical
assistance to Somalia jointly with the UNDP. An energy assessment has been
completed, as has a review of population, health and nutrition issues. A
collaborative review with the Government and donors of major issues in the
agricultural sector was undertaken with support from an SPPF. IDA is
cooperating with the Government in the preparation and review of
periodically updated public investment and expenditure programs at both the
national and, increasingly, at-the sector level. The Advisory Committee



- 10 -
for Juba Valley Development established by the Consultative Group at Its
October 1983 meeting provided an important forum for review and
collaboration on Issues affectlng the development of Somalia's major water
resource.
42.       In IDA's lending work, It la planned to emphasize productive
investments and rehabilltation programs. An Irrigation rehabilitation
project is being prepared to help increase productivity and farmer incomes
in the Shebelli Valley. Most projects have been cofinanced with a number
of other donors, and this is expected to continue in the future. The
economic and sector work program strives to support the sectoral
macroeconomic reform process, and to provide analytical inputs for the work
of the Consultative Group for Somalia. In this area there is considerable
collaboration with the GOS and other donors.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
43.       IDA disbursements represent about eight percent of total aid
flows to Somalia. IDA obligations represent about 12 percent of Somalia's
total outstanding and disbursed debt up to December 3L, 1983. Debt service
payments to IDA represent a very-small proportion of Somalia's total debt
service obligations. In 1985, payments to IDA were estimated at only about
one percent of total debt service payments for that year. This trend is
expected to continue in the future.
PART III - ISSUES AND STRATEGIES IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
44.       A major factor in sector performance and future possibilities in
agriculture in Somalia is the arid to semi-arid climate. Rain falls mostly
in the Gu (mid April-June) and Der (October-December) seasons. Thnis
.bimodal pattern means that rainfed crop production is risky and has a high
variability. Moderace droughts occur every 3-4 years and major ones every
8-10 years. In this harsh environment the choice of dryland production
technology and the availability of irrigation become important. At present
crop production takes place on no more than I million ha (L.1 percent of
the area suitable for cultivation). Some 50-100,000 ha along the Shebelli
river and to a lesser extent the Juba river benefit from largely seasonal,
flood irrigation with low water use efficiency (20-25 percent).
45.       Nomadic livestock grazing on an estimated 44 million ha of
rangelands is the traditional occupation of most Somalis. It is the
logical adaptation to the dry and variable environment and is the dominant
activity in the sector and in the economy. Some 4 million cattle, 6
million camels, 18 million goats and 12 million sheep are maintained.
-Performance of the Agricultural Sector
46.       The agricultural sector (including crops, livestock, forestry and
fishing) has, on average, contributed about 50 percent of total GDP during
the period 1970-85, with livestock accounting for about 35 percent, crop



- 11 -
production 11 percent, forestry 5 percent and fisheries less than one
percent. Crop production has therefore played a modest but significant
role in the past, and fisheries has been less important.
47.       Livestock dominate the economy, but income from animals is
heavily dependent on the quality and carrying capacity of the natural
range. There are some indications from ongoing research work, however,
that the rangelands are at or near their limit of carrying capacity.
Although livestock will continue to be significant contributors to GDP, the
limited natural resource base will probably constrain the growth of
livestock production to around 2-3 percent per annum.
48.       Crop production, after many years of stagnation, increased
rapidly in the early !980's following deregulation of the grain market.
The sharp improvement in production growth rates between the 1970's and the
1980's are shown in Figures 1 and 2. The years of stagnation resulted in
increasing cereal imports which peaked to about 400,000 tons in 1981.
About half of this volume was food aid. Since that time dependence on
external cereal supply has declined to an average of about 325,000 tons in
recent years, but food aid has become dominant, accounting for as much as
90 percent of grain imports in 1985, namely about 280,000 tons.
49.       An important underlying factor leading to increases in area
harvested for maize and sorghum was that in 1981, there was a de facto
introduction of a free market for all grains.  Decontrol of the market
reversed the deteriorating incentives for producing a marketable surplus.
Prices paid to producers by the government grain purchasing monopoly had
been falling significantly in real terms during the 1970's; the rise after
decontrol had a substantial impact. Statistical analysis confirms that
production increases for maize can be explained in part by the previous
year's average price received by farmers. The same data suggest that area
of maize harvested was also influenced by the Increased prices to producers
although the statistical reliability of the relationship is lower. The
data on sorghum suggest that price had a similar statistically significant
influence on area harvested and output.
50.       While rainfall and other factors would clearly also have had an
impact on production, the analysis confirms that prices received by farmers
have had a significant influence. This provides encouragement that GOS
price policy reforms have been important for growth in the grain producing
sub-sector and the economy as a whole. It is also worth noting that yield
growth for maize and sorghum has not been a significant factor in
production growth. This has implications for research and extension, but
may also underline a concern on the part of some agriculturists that crop
production is being extended to more marginal areas.
51.       The preliminary evidence of an impact of GOS price policy on
agricultural production is important because about 80 percent of employment
in the economy is in the agricultural sector. While about 60 percent of
these people are employed in the livestock sector, grain production is
growing rapidly in importance. Primary commodities account for most
merchandise exports. Livestock and their products (e.g. hides and skins)
account for about 90 percent of exports in most years, bananas about 6-7
percent and fish, frankincense and myrrh the remainder.



- 12 -
Policy Issues in the Agricultural Sector
52.       IDA has maintained an active dialogue with the GOS on
agricultural policy issues; this was intensified in the course of AIP I.
The primary agreement under that program was jointly to review policy
issues in the agricultural sector. The Government and major donor agencies
provided staff and funding assistance. This process began in April 1985.
Five major Task Force groups, each chaired jointly by a Somali official and
an international expert, reported extensively on all major aspects of
agriculture, including livestock and fisheries in September of 1985.
Subsequently, high level preliminary reviews were held. The work of these
Task Forces was consolidated into an Agricultural Sector Report, prepared
initially by IDA, which examined the main issues in the sector and
suggested strategies for addressing those issues. A draft of this report
was discussed at a joint meeting of the GOS, IDA and other donors in
Mogadishu on March 18, 1986. There was agreement on the most important
policy issues and strategies. The Sector Report is being revised and will
be discussed further with the GOS at ministerial level with a view to
reaching an understanding on long-term agricultural policy and investment
objectives (para. 92). The main issues raised in the draft Sector Report
and the responses in this Program to those issues are discussed briefly
below. A tabular simmary is found in Annex V.
53.       Price Policy and Marketing.  Price policy and marketing of
agricultural products in Somalia have improved significantly. Eliminating
the government monopoly on grain marketing (achieved legally in 1984) was a
major advance. At present the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC)
operates as a buyer of last resort in the market for coarse grains, whereas
in earlier days, farmers yere legally required to sell all production to
ADC. The main problem facing farmers now is not market control, but
considerable fluctuations in domestic market prices. The coefficient of
variation for maize prices during 1985 was about 30 percent; between the
years 1977 to 1985 it was also about 30 percent. The variability within
years is largely due to the production peaks and intermittent,
uncoordinated additions of food aid on to the market. The variability
between years is mainly due to fluctuations in production. In future the
nature and extent of government's role in grain marketing needs to be
defined clearly. The objective of any intervention should be to limit
domestic price fluctuations broadly within a band defined at the lower
limit by the export parity price and at the upper limit by the import
parity price. The policy should ensure that incentives for private sector
grain marketing and storage functions are not detrimentally affected by
intervention, while at the same time ensuring that the food security of low
income groups is not jeopardized because of sharp increases in the prices
of staple grains.
54.       ADC establishes a floor price at which it would purchase staples
such as sorghum and maize. This price has been determined according to the
estimated costs of production and has not been announced until after
harvest. There is no clear policy on sales of grains purchased by ADC.
There are three difficulties in principle with such a system.. First, the
use of cost of production as the basis for a minimum support price may in



- 13 -
future encourage production in marginal areas and probably lead to
reduction in the long run productivity of natural resources. This would be
more costly to the economy than relying on imports. Second an announcement
of the support price after harvest has no chance of influencing farmers'
production plans for the current harvest. In these circumstances farmers
can only be expected to plan their next year's production on the basis of
last year's prices. Third, without a policy on sales of stocks, domestic
prices may fluctuate considerably as a result of ad hoc stock release
decisions, and stock holding costs may escalate substantially. Changes to
ADC policies to address these deficiencies will be made under the proposed
program (see para. 88).
55.       Food aid accounted for about 90 percent of grain imports in
1985. Total grain imports accounted for about 45 percent of total grain
supplies to Somali consumers. While domestic grain production is
increasing rapidly, food aid is still expected to play an important role in
the grain market in the foreseeable future. In 1985 about half of all food
aid went to refugees (Annex VIII). The remainder was distributed in two
ways. About half of it is monetized, namely sold in the local market for
domestic currency which is then transferred into a special account used to
supplement GOS budget resources. The GOS institutions involved in those
sales are the National Commercial Agency (ENC) and the ADC. The other half
is distributed to Government agencies (e.g. the army, jails, GOS
ministries and food processors) for the feeding of employees and others.
56.       There are two major problems with the present food aid management
system. First, the sales of food grain and flour aid can, and often have,
taken place at prices well below the prevailing market prices. These sales
have consequently created severe distortions in the local grain market.
While the effect has been to provide urban consumers with unexpectedly low
priced grain, the impact on producers' expectations about market prices
and on traders holding stocks have been devastating. The GOS has agreed
that all food aid in the form of grain introduced into the market should be
sold at prices determined in a properly constituted food aid auction with a
floor price set at import parity using the market exchange rate. The
second problem is that distribution of food aid to government institutions
has been at prices below the market price resulting in further distortions
when much of this food is resold (processed and unprocessed) at
correspondingly low prices. The GOS has agreed that any food grain and
flour aid transferred to GOS institutions and agencies should be
transferred at prices no less than prices determined at the most recent
food aid auction (see para. 88).
57.       While the decontrol (liberalization) of domestic grain marketing
has been au important achievement, there are still areas of economic
activity where the GOS exerts strong control over product pricing and
marketing. One such area is hides and skins. The Government Hides and
Skins Agency (HASA) requires that hides and skins pass through its
collection points where they are purchased and then resold to domestic
tanneries. HASA also has monopoly powers over exports of hides and skins.
The reasons for these controls are a concern for the government's
responsibility for the quality of production, the risk that with long
borders trade will take place at discounted prices, and that trade may
occur in skins from protected animals.



- 14 -
58.       Despite these controls, neither the number of hides and skins
exported, nor the value of leather goods exported have increased
significantly. The total value of hides and skins exports has declined.
Further, while there has no doubt been an increase in domestic consumption
of hides and skins, it is unlikely that this can expiiin the fact that in
1985 total slaughterings of sheep and goats were about 6 million, while
exports of sheep and goat skins were, according to HASA, only 3.5 million.
These observations suggest that the present system is not achieving its
stated objectives and that decontrol of the hides and skins sector,
accompanied by necessary measures to safeguard quality, should be
considered (see para. 88).
59.       Public Investment and Public Enterprises.  Public investment
programs in agriculture in Somalia have often exceeded implementation
capacity, included projects of low priority, lacked realism about the
availability of domestic and foreign resources and have been supported by
inadequate cost recovery performance. In the short term, public investment
strategies can be improved on several fronts: first, by ensuring that the
institutional mechanisms for policy analysis and the choice of investments
are strengthened to improve the efficiency of public investment programs;
second, by ensuring that recurrent costs are provided for through equitable
and efficient cost recovery; and third, by improving operational efficiency
of those public sector enterprises which should be retained. Finally, the
appropriate institutional arrangements and organization for policy and
investment planning in agriculture require action. Part of that action is
improvement in the statistical base available to the Ministry of National
Planning. The program provides further support for statistical work and
training in the Ministry under technical assistance (para. 85).
60.       On the first front, the GOS has already taken some important
steps to improve the quality and efficiency of public investment programs.
It has prepared two Public Investment Programs (PIPs) which were both
endorsed in the respective CG meetings as appropriate in both size and
content (paras. 21 and 27). The GOS will update the PIPs on an annual
basis, and incorporate the recurrent cost implications of investment
decisions. The Task Force reports on the agricultural sector carried out
under AIP I are likely to be very helpful in preparing PIPs in the future.
A condition of the second tranche of the program will be that a PIP
acceptable to IDA has been prepared (para. 92).
61.       On the second and third fronts, further action is necessary.  The
GOS agrees in principle with the need for cost recovery, but there are as
yet few examples of cost recovery being put in place. One example is the
IDA-assisted North-West Agricultural Project (Cr. 1538-SO) where a cost
recovery system is under implementation. Farmers benefiting from the soil
and water conservation measures are required to repay a proportion of the
costs of earth works and project implementation. In another positive
development in relation to improved cost recovery, charges by ONAT (the
tractor and machinery hire agency) have been increased; however, they are
still less than half commercial rates. A condition of the second tranche
of the program is that ONAT has achieved full cost recovery from tractor
rentals (para. 92). Technical assistance is provided under the program to



- 15 -
assess charges required for full cost recovery on ONAT tractor operations.
There is also provision in the program for technical assistance for the
rehabilitation of agricultural machinery at four Government-owned
workshops. This activity will have an important training component.
62.       Improvement in operational efficiency of public sector
enterprises is taking place. Some action will be taken under the agreed
program to achieve further improvements in ADC and ENC as outlined above
(paras. 54 to 56). However, unprofitable public sector enterprises remain
in agriculture and are tying up valuable capital. IDA is therefore
planning to review public sector enterprise management (including
agro-industries) in the context of the next economic mission to Somalia in
June 1986. The purpose of that review will be to make a preliminary
assessment of the performance of public sector enterprises, determine the
constraints which they face in achieving profitable performance and make a
general review of policy options for the GOS with the objective of
restructuring these enterprises or privatizing their functions.
63.       A difficult longer term strategic question for investment in the
agricultural sector is the appropriate balance of future investment between
sub-sectors. For the livestock subsector it is clear, however, that future
investments will need to improve productivity on existing rangelands while
at the same time ensuring that there is no irreversible destruction of
natural resources. Choosing between rainfed and irrigated crop subsectors
is more controversial. On the one hand relatively simple low cost, but
admittedly risk-prone, technologies introduced recently for rainfed
agriculture show considerable potential. On the other hand, traditional
irrigation in this drought-prone region can yield considerable economic
benefits. Although it is evident that efforts should be directed at
consolidating the advances already made in rainfed farming and at the same
.time developing more cost-effective irrigation systems, much of the
research on which to base investment decisions has not yet been completed.
64.       Rural Finance.  The formal rural finance system is dominated by
the government. Two institutions are involved. the Somali Development
Bank (SDB) for mediumrterm (2-6 years) lending, and the Commercial and
Savings Bank (CSBS) for sfiort-term (10-12 months) lending. There is
virtually no long-term (7-20 years) lending. The SDB has a centralized
organization whereas the CSBS has branches in most major towns. Annex VI
provides a summary of distribution of formal credit in Somalia. The most
important issues in rural finance in Somalia are first,--the need to improve
the institutions responsible for credit, second to stimulate.savings, aad
finally to achieve positive interest rates for lending.
65.    -  At present there are many shortcomings in the CSBS and the SDB
related mainly to their limited capacity to adequately evaluate loan
proposals, monitor use of funds, and recover repayments. IDA has provided
assistance to the SDB to strengthen the work of that institution. The
results, however, fell short of expectatiGns and the OED audit report was
critical of the project's performance. One of the subsequent developments
has been an Increase in technical assistance to the SDB and the CSBS
through various studies and advisors (mainly financed by the Federal



- 16 -
Republic of Germany). Consideration is being given by the GOS to the
establishment of a private commercial bank in Somalia. Such a development
would provide increased competition in financial markets and offer an
alternative source of credit. It could also result in a major improvement
in the level of savings because to a large extent the low savings rate in
Somalia has probably been due to low deposit interest rates. The issue of
deposit rates is being addressed as a condition of the IMF Stand-by
arrangement, namely that deposit rates be raised to at least the level of
inflation (para. 33).
66.       While substantial progress has been made recently in aligning
interest rates charged to agricultural borrowers with th'e rate of
inflation, real interest rates are still negative on the basis of current
inflation rates. Rates for small farmers are 19 percent. by comparison,
when demand management policies are in place, the inflation rate in Somalia
is estlmated to be about 20-22 percent. Experience in many countries has
shown that subsidized interest rates for agriculture have generally not had
long run beneficial effects on production and income and have mainly
.benefitted the larger farmers. The GOS recognizes the need to move towards
positive interest rates in the economy and has agreed to continue its
adjustment of lending rates such that they will become positive in real
terms (paras. 89 and 92).
67.       Input Supply.  The GOS has reduced considerably the centralized
control over the marketing of agricultural inputs. The private sector has
subsequently increased substantially its role in the marketing of these
inputs. Farmers have also shown a keen and increasing interest in using
them. Further action will be taken under the proposed program to
liberalize trade in veterinary supplies (para. 90).   -
68.       Research and Extension.  Agricultural research in Somalia has
lagged behind improvements in the agricultural extension service. ln the
short berm research strategy in Somalia should be directed to adapting
existing technologies to make maximum use of existing capacity for food
crops production and improving water management in irrigation areas.
The longer term strategy should include the building of appropriate
institutional arrangements, manpower development, and the formulation of a
balanced program of livestock, food crop and cash crop and farming system
research. Extension programs should reinforce progress made already with
an emphasis on irrigated areas and over time broaden support to rainfed
areas while reducing extension delivery costs for the whole program.
69.       Plans are in place for an IDA-assisted research and extension
project in FY89; it would be a follow-up to the ongoing extension project.
Also, major commitments have been made by USAID and CIDA to the
strengthening of research through investment in facilities and manpower
development.
Performance Under the Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP I)
70.       In June 1985, the Board approved the Agricultural Inputs Program
(Credit 1612-SO) - AIP I. The broad objectives of this program were
two-fold: first, to start a process of agricultural sector analysis to



- 17 -
provide the basis for a dialogue on continued policy reform; and second,
to improve the availability of Imported agricultural inputs by assisting
the private sector to finance the purchase of those inputs and thereby
stimulate the growth of the agricultural sector and the expansion of the
private sector services to agriculture. This program provided support for
the Government's economic recovery program which already included policy
reforms to reduce the Government's role in agriculture and to support the
further liberalization of.price, trade and exchange rate regimes.
71.       AIP I was financed by an SDR 10.1 million IDA credit.  At the
same time, there were other programs providing support for the Import of
agricultural inputs. Italy provided a grant of $35 million for general
commodity imports which is administered by IDA. USAID is financing a
Commodity Import Program of $27 million, a small proportion of which was
for agricultural inputs.  Most of these external funds have been
committed.  The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) agreed in February 1986
to finance a cimilar program up to DM 30 million (about $12 million) from
SJF, also administered by IDA. The Japanese government also recently
agreed to contribute Yen 400 million to AIP I. Annex VII provides
information on expenditures under these various programs.
72.       The AIP I credit became effective in July 1985.  About 80 percent
of the funds were committed as of May 1, 1986 and about 75 percent ($7.5
million) has been disbursed. A number of activities and achievements
during AIP I are summarized below:
73.       Studies of the Agricultural Sector.  Task force reports, prepared
wifth the assistance of a number of donors, have been completed (para. 52).
A draft Sector Report has now been completed recommending a set of
principles/actions on future agricultural policy as briefly outlined in
paragraphs 52 to 69.
74.       Agricultural Inputs.  The GOS has prepared a list of
non-prescriptive veterinary drugs classified as safe for private import.
Official GOS ratification of the list is a condition of effectiveness for
this program. AIP I has also stimulated development of private
agricultural equipment dealerships, with several large trading companies
importing tractors, machinery, and spare parts. Progress on the
establishment of permanent dealerships for agricultural equipment in rural
areas has been less than expected because credit constraints have limited
the demand for such equipment and hence the need for dealerships.
75.       Fuel purchases, which could have become available relatively
quickly under AIP I, were delayed.  Fuel arrived after the second most
importaqt land cultivation season (the Der season of October to December
1985). Consequently, demand in rural areas was low when the fuel finally
arrived. Therefore, the diesel fuel imports were not used in rural areas
to the extent anticipated. At the same time, fuel imported by the GOS
using other funds also saw limited distribution through the formal system
in rural areas. As a result, prices in the parallel market at ploughing
time were high, suggesting that farmers placed a high value on acquiring
fuel. A number of IDA-assisted development projects also experienced fuel



- 18 -
shortages. The liberalization of trade and the pricing of fuel at free
market levels would remove the need for administrative allocation of fuel
and help eliminate these problems in the future.
76.       Agricultural Marketing.  ADC and ENC continued to move towards
less interference in the grain market. On the other hand, they have
continued to supply government agencies with imported grains using prices
based on overvalued e*change rates and were not always judicious id their
releases of food aid and stocks. The market price for fresh fish in
Mogadishu has been de-regulated.
77.       A Rehabilitation Program for Agricultural Equipment and
Machinery. The inventory held by four Government-owned workshops and the
formulation of a plan of action for disposal of unwanted items have been
completed. An action program for spare parts purchase, some disposal,
rehabilitation of equipment, and staff training is ready for implementation
and will be included in the program under technical assistance (para. 85).
78.       Impact of AIP I on the Poor in the Rural Areas.  To the extent
that AIP I assists growth in the agricultural sector, it will contribute to
increased employment and incomes of many of the approximately 70 percent of
the population which live in rural areas. However, there are at present no
measurements of the impact of the program on agricultural growth and
incomes because the majority of inputs purchased under the program are only
now becoming available. Most of the imported inputs will be available for
the first time during the 1986 Gu planting season.
79.      -To sum up, AIP I supported an intensive dialogue on agricultural
policy and helped to consolidate reforms in several important areas
including the development of free markets for agricultural products and
inputs.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM
80.       The proposed program was appraised in February 1986.  This is a
combined Staff Appraisal Report and President's Report. Negotiatlons were
held in Washington, D.C. on April 22-25, 1986. The Somali delegation was
led by Dr. Mohamed Sheikh Osman, Minister of Finance.
Objectives
81.       The main objective of this program is to extend the reforms
achieved under AIP I in the agricultural sector, to develop enlarged
private sector participation in supplying and distributing inputs, to
strengthen key agricultural institutions, and to provide much needed
foreign exchange for the economy through an auction system. A matrix
showing the relationship between policy issues and strategies in the
agricultural sector, the actions under AIP I and this program, and future
policy objectives is presented in Attachment V.



- 19 -
82.       The specific objectives of the program are:
a) To reform the policies and operations of government institutions
which support and service agriculture, and to introduce measures
which will benefit the rest of the economy, through establishment
of an open auction for foreign exchange, establishment of border
prices for diesel fuel (at the market exchange rate),
improvements in grain marketing operations, the improvement of
interest rate regimes for agricultural credit, full cost recovery
for Government-operated machinery rental services (ONAT), a
continuing commitment to an acceptable Public Investment Program,
-improvement in the efficiency of the marketing of hides and
skins, and clarification of the Government's longer-term
agricultural policy objectives.
b)   To achieve greater involvement of the private sector in servicing
agricultural production and marketing through authorization for
the private sector to trade and distribute diesel fuel and
lubricants and to market an expanded list of veterinary drugs.
c)    To increase agricultural production and rationalize resource
allocation to the sector through the provision of foreign
exchange to the Somali economy and through technical assistance.
d)   To strengthen the GOS Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock,
Forestry and Range, and Fisheries through the importation of
essential equipment and materials.
Financing Plan
83.       The distribution of the credit between IDA, the SFA and the SJF
would be as shown in Table 1. The GOS will provide $0.4 million equivalent
in domestic currency for the local costs of technical assistance; these
funds would be additional to the amounts shown in the following table.



- 20
Table 1: Estimated Costs and'Financing Plan
Component                    MA          SFA             SJF          TOTAL
(S million)
Part A - lmportation of
Goods and Materials
ay Public and Private
Sector Enterprises
(a) Goods & Materials           20.0         22.6           7.4           50.0
(b) Diesel fuel and
Lubricant Imports
by SOMPET                        6.7          6.7            -            13.4
Part B - Luports of Inputs ky
Government a/                       1.7         3.3            -             5.0
Part C - Technical Assistance
(a) Procurement Unit             0.5          -             -              0.5
(b) Assistance to ADC/ENC        0.5          -             -              0.5
Cc) Statistics in Ministry of
Mational Planning            0.3          -              -             0.3
(d) Agricultural Machinery
Rehabilitation               0.2          -              -            "0.2
(e) Study of ONAT Operating
Costs.                       0.1          -              -             0.1
Sub-Total                1.6         -              -             1.6
30.0        32.6            7.4          70.0
a/ Ministries of Agriculture; Livestock, Forestry and Range; and Fisheries.
Cofinancing
84.       About £ 5 million (about $7.4 million) is expected from the
United Kingdom under the SJF, subject to final UK Govermnent approval.
The Swedish Government is likely to contribute about SEK 2 million (about
$300,000) for supporting.statistical work in the IMNP as an additional
grant, also subject to final Government approval.



- 21 -
Description of the Program
85.   '   The funds from the program would be used as follows:
Part A will provide financing for the importation of goods through an
auction system for both private importers and public sector enterprises
except SOMPET. The size of this component is related to the size of the
free foreign exchange market at present (para. 35) and the need to provide
a broader base for that market. The program of $50 million over two years
will increase the availability of foreign exchange by about 50 percent
above its current level.
Part B will provide financing for imports for the Ministries of
Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Range, and Fisheries, as described in
Annex IX.
Part C would finance technical assistance as follows:
(a)   Technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Finance
for the Procuremient Unit. The Unit will continue the work
started under AIP I, ensuring that procurement under this program
is carried out efficiently and is consistent with the credit
agreements.
(b)   Under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, technical assistance will be provided to ADC and
ENC for the implementation of the agreed principles for the
marketing of domestically produced grain and the management of
food aid, the drafting of opelational guidelines, and a review of
the structure of ADC and ENC._/
(c)   Under the Ministry of National Planning, the Central Statistics
Department will receive continued support with particular
emphasis on the completion of the ongoing household budget
surveys, for work on foreign trade returns and national accounts,
designing of an agricultural/livestock census planned for 1988
and the preparation and execution of a household expenditure
survey in the nomadic areas. In-service training as well as
training abroad will form part of this component.
(d)   Under the Ministry of Agriculture, the program will provide funds
for a technician/mechanic to assist in the efficient utilization
of spares and the rehabilitation of various agricultural
machinery and equipment, and training.
2/ This technical assistance would be complementary to support already
being provided by the FAO for pest control; by the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINNIDA) for grain storage, grain
handling and pest control; and by the EEC for the development of an
early warning system.



- 22 -
(d)   Under the Ministry of Agriculture, ONAT will be assisted in
establishing commercial accounting procedures, to establish
accurate machinery and equipment operating and maintenance costs
and undertake training of staff. Funds will be provided for the
engagement of a cost accountant and technician/mechanic to
provide training to ONAT staff in machinery rehabilitation.
Implementation of the Program
86.       Funds allocated to the private sector and public sector
enterprises (except SOMPET which would receive a separate allocation) would
be sold through the foreign exchange auction for the financing of all
imports except those on a negative list which will include luxury goods,
military equipment, and construction materials for urban,housing (Annex
IX). GOS diesel fuel purchases under the program will be financed at the
auction-determined exchange rate. The IMF has been consulted on the plan
for foreign exchange auceions envisaged under this program and has endorsed
it in principle. In addition, the IMF will also provide advice to the GOS
on various options for establishing the foreign exchange auction. Close
consultation will continue between the GOS, IDA and the IMF on the
arrangements for the auction system. Other donors have shown an interest
In disbursing funds through foreign exchange auctions. If that eventuates,
arrangements will be made through the GOS to coordinate the auction of
funds from different sources. A review of th.: auction system will be
undertaken by IDA six months after the date of effectiveness to assess its
efficiency. The local funds generated by the auction sales will be placed
in a separate GOS account to be used for general budgetary purposes. The
opening of such an account in the CSBS would be a condition of
effectiveness.
87.       Imports by the Ministries will be equipment and related purchases
to improve services to agriculture and undertake research and will be made
at the prevailing official exchange rate. Technical assistance would be
obtained through the Procurement Unit for the implementing Ministries. The
implementation of the program and the auction system are described in more
detail in Annex X.
Summary of Policy Actions Under the Program
88.       Price Policy and Marketing.  The most important actions under
this program concern improvements in price policy and marketing, and the
management of food aid. They are:
(i)  Diesel Fuel Prices.  The GOS will maintain its commitments to the
IMF on diesel fuel pricing, namely that the retail price for
diesel fuel sold by the GOS will be at the border price at the
market exchange rate as determined at the most recent foreign
exchange auction. The formula applied should be acceptable to
IDA (para. 33).
(ii) Access to Import Licenses and Freedom to Distribute Diesel Fuel
and Lubricants. The GOS has provided evidence tnat any public
enterprise, private individual, group of individuals, or company



- 23 -
can obtain licenses to Import clesel fuel and lubricants and
distribute them through cooperatives or private distribution
channels without additioaal charges or conditions (para. 33).
(iii) Improvements inGrain Marketiug and Food Aid Management. As a
condition of effectiveness, the GOS will establish a set of
operating principles for the Agricultural Development Corporation
(ADC) and the Etrte Nazionale Commercio (ENC) relating to
improvements in grain marketing and the management of food aid.
With the support of technical assistance, the GOS will
subsequently prepare operational guidelines acceptable to IDA on
floor prices, ceiling prices, sale of food aid and the
distribution of concessional grain imports to government
institutions (paras. 54 to 56). Specifically, the principles are
as follows:      .
-     a minimum buying price will be established by ADC for maize and
sorghum in the domestic market in all parts of the country to be
based on the medium to long term trend in the cost of exporting
those grains out of Somalia, at the prevailing market exchange
rate, and the anticipated market price. The minimum price may
vary by region to account for differences in transport;
-     the minimum prices to be set by ADC will be established and
announced prior to the traditional major planting time for the
domestically produced grains, but no later than April 30 each
year;
-     ADC will sell grains purchased to defend a ceiling price in the
market which would usually be about equal to the estimated import
rarity price; and
any food aid grain transferred to GOS institutions and agencies
should be transferred at prices no less than prices determined at
the most recent food aid auction.
(iv) Hides and Skins Marketing. A study will be undertaken of all
aspects related to the efficiency of the domestic and export
hides and skins, leather and leather marketing, and the impact of
greater participation of private individuals and companies in the
domestic hides and skins trade (paras. 57 and 58).
89.       Rural Finance.  The GOS will continue to adjust interest rates
for agricultural credit so as to progressively move towards the achievement
of positive rates in real terms (paras. 64 to 66). Evidence of such
adjustments would be a condition of effectiveness.
90.       Input Supply.  The program contains specific provisions to widen
the scope for traders to sell veterinary drugs and encourage more traders
to participate in the credit. Specifically, the GOS will issue a public
notification that topical antibiotics (non-injectible) will be added to the
approved list of drugs allowed for importation under AIP I, as a condition
of effectiveness (para. 74).



- .24 -
91.       Foreign Exchange Auction.  The GOS will establish arrangements
acceptable to IDA to auction foreign exchange provided from the proceeds of
the credit. This will be,a condition of effectiveness. A review of the
auction system will be undertaken by IDA about 6 months after the date of
effectiveness (para. 86).
Summary of Conditions for Second Tranche of the Program
92.       All components of the program, including funds to be made
available under the SJF, except technical assistance will be tranched in
two equal parte. The first would be available when the program becomes
effective. The target date for the second tranche (half of Parts A and B)
is July 1, 1987, provided the following specific conditions have been
satisfied:
(a) The GOS and IDA have agreed on an action plan to implement the
recommendations of a study on the hides and skins, leather and
leather products industry (para. 88).
(b)   A letter of intent acceptable to IDA on long-term agricultural
policy and investment by the GOS has been provided (para. 52).
(c)   A PIP acceptable to IDA has been provided (para. 60).
(d)   Appropriate measures have been taken to adjust interest rates on
agricultural credit so that in time they will become positive in
real terms in the longer run (para. 66).
(e)   ONAT is achieving full cost recovery for tractor rentals (para.
61).
Procurement
93.       Procurement of goods and services will be in accordance with
IDA's procurement guidelines of May 1985.
94.       For procurement under Part A, private importers or public sector
enterprises will solicit at least three quotes for goods over US$200,000
equivalent. For imports under $200,000 equivalent, submission of one offer
would be acceptable, since the PU will verify the appropriateness of such
offers. For proprietary items or where the exporter/importer is the sole
agent, or where the buyer is precluded from buying from another supplier,
one quote will be acceptable regardless of the amount. For the application
of the latter two cases documentary evidence will have to be provided by
the importer.
95.       Procurement under Part B will be through ICB for purchases
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent. Purchases amounting to less than this
amount will be based on a minimum of three quotes unless purchases are
proprietary items purchased directly from manufacturers. All ICB
procurement will be subject to prior review by IDA.
96.       Consultants to be employed under Part C will be selected in
accordance with IDA's guidelines of August 1981.



-25-
Disbursements, Accounts and Audit
97.       For Parts A and B of the program, the Government will open
Special Accounts with an international commercial bank. IDA will deposit
US$7.0 million into these accounts at the Government's request, and will
replenish them on a regular basis until the funds are fully utilized. A
similar arrangement would be made for Part C, but the initial deposit will
be for US$500,000. Details of the disbursement process are included in
Annex X.
98.       The program's accounts, including Special Accounts, will be
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. A certified copy of such audited accounts will be submitted
to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
99.       Not later than six months after completion of the program, GOS
will prepare and furnish to IDA a completion report highlighting its costs
and benefits.
Social and Distributional Impact of the Program
100.      Adjustments in agricultural policies which lead to the adjustment
of producer prices for grain and other foods to border price levels at
market exchange rates would, all other things being equal, improve the
incomes of producers in Somalia because prices for important crops such as
maize have generally been less than the border price. Improved price
incentives are also likely to result in more production and more employment
for the landless. While higher food prices may jeopardize the food
security of the poor, this program provides a strategy, through the
improved grain marketing arrangements for ADC, for ensuring that prices of
grains traditionally consumed by lower income groups, namely maize and
grain sorghum, are not allowed to go higher than a pre-determined ceiling.
Such a policy would limit food price increases for all groups, but would be
particularly important for the food security of the poor.
101.      The program also provides for improved managem3nt of food aid
within the government and its institutions. These provisions are aimed at
ensuring that food aid is valued and transferred between agents at market
prices. In other words, the full economic benefits of food aid, which for
Somalia represents approximately 20 percent of the value of all imports,
should be captured and accounted for. This would also ensure that there
are less opportunities for windfall gains for individuals or institutions
as a result of a privileged position related to food aid handling and
distribution. This will in turn ensure that food aid supplies do not
depress market prices and hence reduce incentives for producers. It is
possible that maintenance of market prices for food aid which is sold may
have a detrimental impact on the very poor in urban centers. The solution
to this problem should be sought through specially funded and targetted
feeding programs . The World Food Programme, the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees and a number of non-governmental organizations have
special activities to address such problems.



- 26 -
Benefits
102.      The policy measures relating to the agricultural sector in this
program are expected to promote increased domestic production, particularly
of grains, improve the marketing of grains, hides and skins, and expand the
role of the private sector. These policy measures are also expected to
result in increased exports, mainly from the livestock and banana
subsectors. These results would in turn lead to increases in income and
employmv.nt in the agricultural sector, including agro-industry. The
establishment of an auction system for foreign exchange would result in
more efficient allocation of foreign exchange resources within the economy,
and would augment productive output of the economy by providing a reliable
source of financing for imported recurrent inputs. Finally, the program
would strengthen Government institutions involved in domestic grain
marketing, food aid management, and statistical analysis.
103.      The nature of the program is such that it is not possible to
quantify the benefits resulting from the inputs and policy changes
separately from other factors affecting productive output, and therefore no
estimated economic rate of return has been calculated.
Risks
104.      One possible risk for the program is that the funds available for
the auction system may be inadequate to stabilize the exchange rate,
resulting in erratic exchange rate fluctuations and a breakdown in the
confidence of traders in the foreign exchange auction. Given the amounts
provided for the auction under this program in relation to the present
amounts of foreign exchange traded in the free market (para. 35) this risk
is not likely to be significant. This risk would be further minimized if
other donors make funds available for this system, as is likely.
105.      Also, there is a possibility that the agricultural producers
would not respond to the increased incentives, either because of a lack of
technology or because of imperfections in market information. However, the
experience with increased incentives in the past has been that a positive
response occurs (see para. 49).
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
106.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I am also satisfied that the
proposed African Facility Credit would comply with provisions of Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985. I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed IDA Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attacbments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1986



_ 27 -                            Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
SIMULI                 - SOCAL IUDCIU MITA 
SIDiALIA                        ufh3U    am  iill 11         8mm)  IL
i,soL?.  ~ miciut       LWZSS *9818              6635*STLU
196OL  12701£ STiNaU            SamT Ur EMAil         AmUCA S. Or 58698
AM  CTIOUmD SQ. it)
TUA                                837.7       837.7       637.7
ACRICILTUAL                        29.1        218.7       2".7
M M ernA (U)                        ..         ..         230.0             233.8                     ub)3.
(KILOM6 0  UIL  wUUZALEI)          11.0        23.0         3.0              L2.3                     391.3
FWUATI  A   VXTAL 2TAVI8TES
FT5LTI(il.lED-T"A. (CUMANDi)   2430.0         3482.0     3068.0
Damu  POPUIATIO  CZ OF TOTAL)       17.3       23.1        32.3               20.1                      32.
PoPUATIon InM   2000 (MLL)                               8.3
STlATtiNAt PIOUUITtO  (MaLL)                              31.0
irfFIATIOI NDIlEWOU                                        1.9
MR sA. Mi.                         3.8         5.4         *.0              33.2                      83.1
7M  SQ.  . AflI. LAUD              8.2        11.         11.3             1112.                     124.A
POPUTION AGE STIUI au (C1)
0-14 us                          44.7        47.3        44.               41.0                      43.8
15-4 YIS                          SZ .       50.5        52.3               50.3 s1.3
bS MD A*I                          2.7         1.9         2.3               2.9                       2.7
POPULATION CROVIM tAlZ (2)
TOTAL                              1.8         3.5         3 0               2.3                       2.9
URD                                A, 4.9      .3           ..4                                        5.1
CRUDC aIm lA21 CPU TUNS)            50.1        50.1        43.3              47.2                      47.0
cam  0UK     am  (      TIouUS)     22.9       28.3        20.3               17.8                      13.0
CmOSS 39OIZoCT10 mAt                 3.2         3.2         3.2               3.3                       362
FAIMLY PUIUXU
ACCPTOUS. AIIAL (13005)
uss CZ or "AID          )          ..          .          2.0                3.3                        .4
1X0  OF FOOD PROD. MR CAPITA
019171-100)                         97.0      100.0        80.0               $3.3                       g.
MM CAPITA 501P1L? Or
CALOS  CZ or U50U 1UT)            78.0        76.0       34.0               $7.7                      93.3
PROM    (CUM6 PM DAT)             67.0       *1.0        GRA                31.9                      33.4
OF OUR AND" AND PULSE            47.0        40.0        38.0 I            18.7                      18.3
CHLD (*CS 1-4) oEM  3AT8           38.9       33.1        30.0               23.1                      18.8
LI  ErPCr. AT UH1T  (MS)            33.0       37.2        4.S                47.3                      32.0
nwar mr. Km  (PM  ous)             175.0      153.3       142.0              L19.3                     103.
ACCS TO SAfl WATE  CrOP)
TOTAL                              *          15.0        33.0 Id           27.1                      42.4
U                                  ..         17.0       58.o T7            63.3                      a7.3
*L                                 ..         14.0       21.8 7|            19.3                      33.3
AaCC3S TO  XCErA DISPOSAL
ci or 'PWuLATION)
TOAL                               ..          ..          ..               28.5                      28.9
..                                           ..          ..                 3.4                      57.7
3I3L                               ..         ..          ..                20.8                      20.7
POPlATUiO  PuO MSICII            38570.0    28230.0    L5630.0 i4          27901.7                   11791.7
POP. PER 30313 1150               4810.0     4370.0      2530.0 a           330.4                     2439.
P. PM HOSPITAL U
TOML                             690.0       710.0      84.O fe           1273.6                     Va1.1
W1*1                             140.0      30C.0         ..               42.2                      384.8
RURL                            3840.0     7900.0         ..              3292.5                    4371.9
ADUSSIOis MM  OSFITAL  D             ..         ..          ..                 ..                      27.2
AV3fRIG SIU OF UBISS1L
TOTAL                              ..         ..
Wi-
UUU*1                              ..         ..          3..                ..
A13U3   110. OF WRSOtSlROX
1018                               ..          ..          .                  ..
711UL4                             ..         .....
WURL                               ..         .....  
TOTAL                              ..          ..
7URAL                              ..         ..



Annex 1
-28-                                    Page 2 of 7
SAL!A                 - SOCtiL   nCATOS CAT 
SosIALIA                           U.rcUNc 1  RouPs (UslGNTD AVERAGCS) /a
mST                     (MlOST NtECNT ESTEIATE) /b
RECENT         LUM INCUSI AFRICA       14lDOU INCOI
19,iL      197*Ib  SSTINAT          SOM 01 bANARA       AFRICA S. UF SAHARA
ADJUSTED CNIIOLtIENT RATIOS
PRICY:  TOTAL                     9.0       11.0        3U.U Id           67.d                    y5.7
HALE                  13.0        17.0       38.0 71           77.6                    IM.D
VrOULE                  5.0        5.0       2L.o 7;           54.9                     v3.2
S ECUNDART: TOTAL                 1.0        5.0        11.0 Id           13.5                    17.3
HALE                   2.0         8.U       I6.O 7J           17.9                     25.0
C                      .AL.        2.0        6.0 /d            9.1                     14.U
VOCATIONAL (n oF SECONAIM)         26.4        3.1        17.b /d           13.2                     5.9
PUPIL-TrACNHI RATIO
PRxzAu                           29.0       33.a        33.0 /d           44.9                    41.1
SECONDART                        20.0       24.0        21.0 7d           27.4                    25.5
PASSiIIERR CARSITHOUSAND Par        1.1        2.0         ..                3.8                    20.8
RADIO RCtIlrITEOSAIID POP           9.4       14.4       25.9               55.8                   107.5
TV  ECVRSITWOUSAMID                 ..         ..                            2.6                    20.6
NIIUSPA    ("InLY 0EUEAL
INTEREST") CIROIATIN
PU THOUSAND POPULATION             0.8         1.4        ..                5.0                    18.4
ClUES ANNUAL ATT!NDANCKICAPITA      0.6        1.4         ..0.5                                     0.4
TOTAL LAROR PO0RC  (T1R5)        1007.0     1331.0      1815.0
IDKAL  (?PERa)                   29.4       29.0        28.0              34.2                    36.2
ICKIOJLTURE CPERCENT)            85.0       s5.a        82.0 Id           77.5                    54.5
IIIDIIvS  (PEZRT)                 4.0        6.0        8A. 7;            9.7                     18.3
PAWRUCIEPTIO RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            41.1        38.5       35.7              39.3                    36.8
HAE                              58.7       55.2        52.3              50.9                    47.1
FPALE                            23.9       22.0        2u.6              28.1                    27.2
rCONIC D9PZNDZMCT RATO              1.2        1.3         1.3               1.3                     1.3
IMME DISTENE
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IONlER
RECEIVED Y
HXCIEST sZ OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..         ..
HIG;EST 20 0? E DS                ;          ..          ..U..O..
IST 2O1 OF HOUSEHLS               ..         ..
LOUSSY 40 or  WHOSEHLDS           ..         ..
irnar mm muais
ESTIATCD ASOLC POTEM  INCOHE
LEVEL CUSs PER CAPITA)
URI                               ..         ..        150.0 /a          165.5                   590.7
SDUAL                             ..         ..        110.0 7           95.0                    275.3
ZSTlUATED RELATE POVERT! IIONC
LVl (USS PZL CAPITA)
IA                                ..         ..          5.0 h0          113.1                   545.6
WEtAL                             ..         ..         SO.Or7           67.6                    201.1
r SoPU        uxm  nsoLm
FOTENT INION  LVML C)
oRI                               ..         ..         40.0 /a           36.6
RL                                ..         ..         70.0 7           61.8
..T AVAIIAZS
NoT APPMALCE.
NOTSCS
/a  lh- greap avrago  for each luicator are popola:lon-mhted arlthmtlc  _ass. Coverq  of coautries
aong the ladlcatore depend. a n avilablity of dA eou lo not ,mifomu
/b  Ilulem otbandsm noted. Data ftor 1960" refer to any year bet_-n 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betmen
1969 ad 1971; mnd data for "Nc Recent Ctlata'e betmn 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1980; la 1978.
JUIK 1985



Annex 1
- 29-                                          Page  3 of 7
DeXrmOfs OF SOCUL INDICATORS
News: AM1_O tbm dew  e dmvm fm  somm souwrtg judge dw t t audsowive an reliable. it houd a  be awd th tbsy may notw laudosy
mpeble beamew of the ak of stdadied deitoos d pctPs used by diffaent coutr in co_Ug the dai The desar. n_ _sthe  walhd to
decribe orde  of m tude,tnd. iae trwe. and chuizs out. mar diffew    betwe cnes
The efe mm poupe am InI the -  cunny gSoup or di  subij country and (2) a country group with somewhat hIgb4  swvp inwom t  the country
pwop ofte subjet countyq (lmp for -Hlgh Incom  NI Eaporti" sg up whore Middie Income Norh Afria and Middle Ear Is chosen beau ofucronger
sono.cultwu  fltletis). In the rrca group data th e _ags. popuison weighted a_brueetic meant for *ech indicao ard swn only when matiority
dike   ntnes ina pup hudewfror that ito Sine S the coverageofcountrmm unog theiundicasndepends on h avilbilIty ofdata e  is ru unform.
cauLion mum be ccmerd tnoretung everags done indictor to another These avngs anre only usful in companng the vau. odone indicator atn tame among
the country and rfern  groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Cru deith Rate (per tomand)-Number of live births in the year
Teal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland water;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crud Deab Rate (per thosswdj-Numtber of deaths in the year
Agricultwn,-Estimate of agricultural ara used temporarily or   per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. paslures market and kitchen gardens or to  GrCs Reprdactbu Rteg-Average number ordaughtm a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her nonnal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specfic fertility rtes; usually five-ycr aven    ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960 1970. and 1913.
market prices, calculated by s-me conversion method as World   Fanib Plannins-Accepwars, Au.u (rhsmus)--Annual num-
Bank Atias (1981-83 basis); 1933 data.                         ber of accepton of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    F yPImug-LUsers(perc )etf u igle  mea-Thepercen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear andgweotherma elec-  tage of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contaception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aed 15-49. although for
some countries contraeeptive usge is mesured fot other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 Wroups
Tetal Pepm3an. Mid-Year (shomsdr)-As of July 1;1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NURITION
and 1983 data.
UrbmPoposth   (pecmt jr orea)-Rtio  r uran o toal Index of Feed Pradwnmin Per Ceph. (1109-71 - 10)-Index of pUr
Population;   (per d     f tealRatio of urban to total        capita annual producton of al food commoditis Production
opulation: different definitions of urban areas my affect compar-  exciudes animal feed and sced for apticukue Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (eg. sugarane instead of supr)
Popuaiw  Projectios                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g coffee and tea are
Population m vear 2D000The projection of population for 2000   eixduded); they comprise cereals, root crops. puses. oil seeds.
made for caeh economy separately. Starting with infioration on  vegetables fruits. nuts sugarcane      beets. livestock  nd
otal population by age and wx fertility rates, mortality rates and  livestock produces. Agregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, thcs parametm  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year interals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
asumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Capt Sppy Of Calirs (pert qffConput
Stationarv poptudarn-s one in whicb age- and sn-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talky rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal fecd, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rae is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estmated on tbe basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                     waste at household levd; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populatwn Momenterum-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Caps. Supply of Pntis (grantr per dq)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replament-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reacbed  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDwk
unity. The momentutm of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 gams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 granms
tbe year t. given the assumption that fertilty remains at replace-  should be annimal protein. Tbese standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 daa.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grais of animal protein as an
Papshiod Dens,ir                                            avenge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per squarm kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capita Paweh Supply hon AnisEed Puler-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrwulnural land-Cotnputed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per dy; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Poplari. Age Srucr (p         -Cildren (0-14 years). work-     CbU (qrn 1-4) Deat Rate (per thl)sand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged t -4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing counties data denved
from life tabls, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popation Growth Rae (percentr-saml-Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Populatio  Growth Rar (pere)-esan-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy art Rink (ye)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970483 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



30 _                                         Annex  1
Page 4 of 7
a th dot of of la birth wr to say the mo througboutit ife; lP -eachr Reao . p-hr~y. md .codWp-Tol 3tt dlnu en-
IN%0, 1970 ad 193 data.                                       rolted In pimary and sconday levels divided by numtbe  of
lob Mwiup _.  tp'hmmdJ-Number of infants who dhe    taiU hea In the co..   Ing -l
befom rechn one yer at a  per thouand Hve biftha In a givn
yaar, 190. 1970 an  1933 dat.                                 CONSUWIoN
Am's o            hhe  (pvw qf  AIerk-0d. wha    d_            aue a Co$ (p  thuusand                         can co*rn
mrd-Numlr of pop  (totL urb    ad rurl) with rem able         prim mosor cars sdl Ies than eigt pesons; exdudes anbul-
ca   to  f water supply  ldea teaed surlace wate  or          sins, heum  and millary wb.
bouasod but s      aaitey watw such ps thot dm protet r        edr As   Re , (per rksh. dpap    m)-All types of receivers
boreols. ailus Sd anitry  ell) a Paeitiseof hei in~e- for radio broadcasts to genera public per thousand of populadan;
dv. popud. in an urbn area a public fountain or sradpout      excrude unlic      rceives in countries and in. yea   when
loca  d not morw   than 280  mrs rof a hous M   b coi         reostron of rmdio sts wu In effect; data for recent yean r may
as being within rea5onable U.. of t thathouse. I. natalbm     not be comparble since most countrie abolished licensing.
reasonabe acor wsta  Imoply that ths housewife or numbers Of the
household do oot have wtospeda dprporoum pan of the day        7(per -T              Vp     de-TV recver for broadcat
In fe5      th rdss vutr naWh.o eneral pubic per touand populion; excudes unlose TV
th #e badly's wat f ert ne_eds.{a receivers in countris and in ywr wbe registration of TV ns wa
Acc sso Lwegir Dktpo  (pSUN, qf pelm.btiONJ..-hti sobn        in effect.
d rwd-Number of peopw (total, urban, and rural) sevd by
excrsa dispoal u perage of their respecdve populations.           oa'Ch lds (Perr tme(  eism)Showvs the aver-
Eureta dioal my lnclude the collcdon and di posl with or      a  crculamtio  of "daily gneal inteet newspaper." did as a
without treatent, of human excreru and waste-water by war-    perodia publication dvoted pimarily to recording  n   w .
bon rysem  or the u  of pit prviea and similar Iostallatio    It is coiderd to be "daily' if It appean at least four ties a wek.
&pd I      . P dh           n   divided by number of prac-    Chime Aimu Atteudkw  per Capit per Yer-Dasd on the
tin pyscans quied tram a medial school at univeity lev.       nunber of tickets sold during the yearn including admissions to
Ibpded   pw ANwdng ?en-lopulation divided by number of        drive-in cneman and mobile unit.
prwtcing male d fef leb grduate nure, asistant nurO
practcal nue and nuning auxiliaries.                            lO  FORCE
A,p siuhei  PM  apiu oRe-4fra, wei. end _wl-lbpulatioo        Total Lahw Foc (rhouanudu-Economically active person. in-
.totaL urbon.and ruml) divided by their respective number of    cduding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds avilable in pui and prate, genral and   slzd    SWdents. etc.. covering population of aU ags. Dcfinitions in
hoils and rabilition centers. Hospitals ae       i            various countries ae not compamble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at kmt one physicin. Establishnts prov.  Fa (pertm)-Ferale labor force as percenta  of total labor
iding pricpafy custodial cau  au not included. Rural hospital  force.
however, include helth and medcl centers not permanently saffed  Apimlwn (porcsW-Labor force in fuaing. orstry. hunting
by a physican (but by a medicl assisnt, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fshing as peenoap of toutl labor force. 1960. 1970 and 1980
whicb offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited ran  data.
of amodical facilities.                                        adartry (pnwrca)-Labor rorce in mining. construction. manu-
Adsimi  per Hlospgu led-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and ps as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
AOUrN                '          "prca-e,mk and-iPa ticiparton
HOUSING                            eIr acivity raee computed as total male. and female labor rore
Aw    SW= of HfJwhu  (prsem p.r kossehudJd)o-al. eie.         as prentage of totaL mnle and feale populationof *1s as
Hdiwn-A household consists ofa group ofindividuals who shre   respecwvdy, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These ae baed on LO's
hvng quater  and thr man meals. A boarder or lodger may or    panidpation rates reflecting age-s  struure ofthe populat   and
may not be induded in the houehold for statistical purpoe      og time trend. A few estmates ae from national sources.
Aeww  Nmb_e of Peas pa Ream_-ural, whe, ad wrt-               Ewenuk Dpe*dy Redo-Ratio of population under IS. and
Aveage number of peons per room in all urbn, and  url         6S and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwdlUng  respectively. Dweling exclude
non-permuanet stuctures and unoccupied part                   INCOME DLSTRIUTION
_tcssq of DwaEsrg, wt Mkvk&?-*aI when an rrelL-               An ctsqu of Toa Dspambk lcuw fboth n cab ed hid)-
Conventional dwelling with eectricity in living quarters as porcen-  Accruing to percntile groups of housholds ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rual dwelings rpectively.            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
Anuan EWoa Rados                                              The folowing estimates m  very approximat measures of poverty
Ibwy school - ondl.   mad ferh-Gross otaL mal ad              lebi  nd should be interpreed with consdable caution.
famarolment of all aM at the prmwy lewd as paraes of          Esti       Anbsobw Pery lracuy   Lewd e(M pg' capia qj-hJie
respective pmuay shoola  populations. While many couni        ad rIL-Absolute poverty income levd is that income lved
consider primay school ge to be 6-1 ya,  othm do no. The     below which a minimnal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differenm  in country practc  in the ag  and duation of scool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
arc rdlected in the ratios gven For sone countrie with unimversel  Es nd Read,5 Pwoe  law Lew (Wipr capitaj-miea
education, gs  eromnt may exced 100 pcent n  some             a.  rwal-Rural relative poverty incom  level is one-third of
pupis arm below or above the country's standard primary-school  aveage per capita personal income of the country. Urban lvel is
a8e-                                                          dernved from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondry schoo - teot. naid femal-Computed as above;    living in urban a.
secondary education requires at lset four yers of approved pri-  E       ApWm     Bd.w Absoiasr Poverty lwe. Leve (per-
mary instruction; prvides genL vocaonal, or eher trainig      cent)-er ed raral- Prccn of populaion (urban and rural
inuctions for pupils usulily of 12 to 17 years of ag; crrespond-  who are 'absolutc poor."
ence couras ar genealy excluded.
Vocatiod Eirolbi (pct of smcomoyj-Vocational institu-                   Compartive Analysis and )ata Divon
ion include techca indusriaL or other progams which operate           Econonic Analysis and Projections Depatment
idependently or as drtnts of scondary institutions                                    June 1985



Annex I
- 31 -                        Page 5 of 7
SOWALIA COOUXWRY DATA
Economic Indicators
GNP Per Capita - US$266 (1982) 11
Annual Rate of Growth of GDP
Gross NationaL Product In 1982 1/                                      at Constant Factor Cost (2)
(Fiscal Years)
USS Mln.           %                    1977-80        1981      1982
GDP at Market Prices            1339.1          100.0                     -3.0       4.4        8.5
Investment                       267.5           20.0
Resource Balance                -292.6           21.9
Export of Goods and NFS          152.4           11.4
Import of Goods and NFS         484.2            36.2
Output in FY1982
Value Added
USSIn.         %
Agriculture                         595.4        49.9
Industry                            133.4        11.2
Services                           462.8         38.9
1249.6       100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNT FIANCE
1979       1980       1981        1982       1983       1984
( M i I I i o n   So. Sh.)          (Rev. Est.)
Total Revenue                         1526       1421       2263        2760       4075       3971
Current Expenditure                   1573       1670       2295        2750       4470       7965
Current Surplus or Deficit (-)         -47       -249        -32          10       -395      -3994
Other Expenditures                    1684       1462        1425       2616       2097       3299
Overall Deficit                       1731       1771        1457       2626       2492       7293
I/ Based on preliminary estimates of NationaL Accounts recently prepared by EA2NE.



- 32-                                 Annex I
Page 6 of 7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1979   1980 1/   1981   1982   1983    1984        1985
(Estimate)
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)        106    133       114    137    100      62         107
Merchandise Inports (c.i.f.) 1/  -394   -461        -422   -484  -450    -406         -400
Trade balance                     -288  -328        -308   -347  -350    -346         -293
Non-factor services and
farmer income, net               -12      -8        -1      9      4     -47         -51
Private transfers, net              36      57        64     11    19       72          33
Current Account Balance            -264   -279      -245   -327  -327    -321         -311
Direct Investment                   -       -         -      -      -       -           -
Official Grant Aid                   58    143       150    157    148      174        168
Private, net                          4    -          -      -      -        -          -
Official, net                       84      87        79    123    100      46         114
Use of FPnd Credit                  -        4        30     34     44      -3          32
Errors and ORissions                19    21           3      3   -14      -40         -40
OveraU Balance                      -99    -24        17    -10    -49    -141         -37
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Official Rate
From 1973 to June 30, 1981 - US$1.00 - So.Sh. 6.295
July 1, 1981-June 30, 1982 - A dual exchange rate with:
US$1.00 = 6.295 (for essential imports)
US$1.00 - 12.59 (all other foreign transactions)
July 1, 1982-Oct. 22, 1983 -   US$1.00 = So.Sh. 15.227
Oct. 23, 1983-Sept. 14, 1984 - US$1.00 = So.Sh. 17.55
Sept. 15, 1984-Dec. 31, 1984 -  US$1.00   So.Sh. 26.00
Jan. 1, 1985-March, 1985  2/ -  US$1.00 = So.Sh. 36.00
Official Rate        Market Rate
1985 March             37.0                  91.0
June             40.6                 99.0
Sept.            40.6                 101.4
Dec.             42.5                115.0
1986  Jan.             54.5                 120.0 3/
Feb.             58.5                 130.03/
March            62.5                 140.0 3/
April            66.5                 145.03/
1/  UIe Import data for 1979-1981 include Franco Valuta imports.
2/  Fate for almost all private transactions Is determined in a free forelgn exchange market.
3.  2stimated average.



-33 -                                Annex I
Page 7 of7
MUE, CRED1S AND PRICZSg7 6, 
Dec.      Dec.      Dec.      Dec.     Dec.        Dec.
1979      1980      1981      1982     1983        1984
(M i I I i o n  So. Sh.)
Bark Clatm  oa Governuent (net)   1,231     1,902     2,250      2,100    1,805      4,378
Bank Clai  ca Private Seceor
and Public Ehterprises          1,726     1,9T7      2,296     2,924    3,456      5,238
MXey Supply                       2,335     2,783     3,674      4,108    4,309      6,933
(I~rcutap of Index Dmbers)
Ga3eral Price Tndex (1977-100)     136.2     217.1     313.4      384.2    524.0    1,0O7.0
Anmual Prcentae Change in
Genral Price ldex                 23.8      59.4      44.4       22.6     36.4       92.0
lak CLams on Private Sector
and Pubic Enterprises             22.9      14.6      16.1       27.3     18.2       21.5
Money Supply (Hj)                   35.1      19.2      32.0       11.8      4.9       60.9
IEISE ES
hmecge 1977-79         198D               198i                  1982
US$Mn    z         US$Min   Z        US$isn    2         US$ Nn    Z
Livestock                    71.2    74.5       101.6   76.2       98.0    85.8        106.0    80.9
Baanas                        9.8    10.3         8.1    6.1        6.0     5.3         14.0    13.7
Meat and tat Products         2.1      2.2        1.0    0.7        0.3     0.3          0.2     0.1
Hides and Sdns                5.8      6.0        6.6    5.0        2.0      1.7         4.0     3.1
Fish ard Fish Product:-       1.5      1.6        0.3    0.2        1.0     0.8         2.5      1.9
Odhers                        5.2     5.4        15.6   11.7        6.9     6.1         4.3      3.3
Total                        95.6   100.0       133.3  100.0      114.0   100.0        131.0   100.0
EIRL   MBT                            US$ fn.
Public Deft (Dec. 31, 1903)1/          1,503.9
(of tdch disbursed)                  1,149.1
DM SERVICE RATIO                    '
Public Debt, 1983 (estimte)
(after debt relief)                    17.2
IDI IENDD (Mnrch 31, 1985)
OatstadiM and Disbursed                 164.5
lhdisbursed                              71.1
Oatstadiig inc. thdsbursed              235.6
1/ inl1udes undisbur-sed coisats fru Fast Rzropeucountries, totallg U54 uillim, ubidc are
not ezpected to be disbuuh ay fiz,PIr.



- 34 -
Annex II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 198b)
No.         Year    Borrower   Project                          IDA Undisbursed
(US Million)
less cancellations
Fifteen Credits have been fully disbursed                       97.32
635-SO      1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture           10.0     0.06
821-SO      1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance              3.0     0.35
905-S0      1979    Somalia    Agriculture Extension            10.5     2.66
906-SO      1979    Somalia    Central Rangelands                8.0     1.18
972-SO      1979    Somalia    Bay Agriculture                  12.0     7.18
1043-SO     1980    Somalia    Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      6.0     0.10
1105-SO     1981    Somalia    Fourth Education                 10.2     3.94
1236-SO     1982    Somalia    Second Mog. Water Supply         15.0     2.28
1324-SO     1983    Somalia    Fourth Highway                  23.0    13.63
1464-SO     1984    Somalia    Afgoy Gas Delineation           18.0      8.69
1465-SO     1984    Somalia    Fisheries Explo. Prom.           13.5    10.99
1538-SO     1985    Somalia    NW Region Agric. Dev.           10.6    10.97
1612-SO     1985    Somalia    Agricultural Input
Program I                     10.0     6.87
Total                                    247.12   68.90
of which has been repaid            2.27
TOTAL now held by IDA             244.85
TOTAL Undisbursed.                         68.90
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal      Obligor
Year
Loan    Equity    Total
1981        Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.                 0.186     -        0.186
195         Polypropylene Bag Co.                    0.605              0.605
Total now held by IFC                   0.791      -       0.791
NOTE:  Credit No. 1647-SO, $4.3 million from IDA for Livestock Health
Services was signed on February 5, 1986, but is not yet effective.



35                          Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  6 months
(b)  Project prepared by            : IDA staff
(c)  Identification mission         : November 1985
(d)  Appraisal mission              : February 1986
(e)  Negotiations                   : April 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 15, 1986
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action: None
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The Government shall have established administrative arrangements
for the operation of a foreign exchange auction system, ^
- acceptable to IDA (para. 91).
(b) The GOS has opened a program account with the CSBS for the
deposit of local currency generated from the sale of the proceeds
of the program (para. 86).
Cc) The Government shall have set the domestic price of diesel fuel
at a level equivalent to c.i.f. prices on a formula acceptable to
IDA (para. 88).
(d)  The Govern,ment shall have submitted to IDA for its review and
approval operating principles on minimum prices for ADC purchases
of maize and sorghum, on the use by ADC and ENC of predetermined
floor prices at auctions based on the prices of commercial
Imports of all food grains and flour imports, and on the prices
for sale of concessional grain and flour imports (para. 88).
(e)  The Government has deregulated the trade in topical antibiotics
and other approved veterinary drugs (para. 90).
(f) The Government has taken measures so as to progressively move
towards the achievement of positive interest rates for
agricultural credit (para. 89).



Annex III
-36 -                           Page 2 of 2
Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche
(a) The Government shall have provided a plan of action acceptable to
IDA for the implementation of the recommendations of a study of
the hides and skins, leather and leather products industry
(para. 92).
(b) The Government shall have provided a letter of intent, acceptable
to IDA, covering agricultural policy and investment (para. 92).
(c) The Government shall have submitted a Public Investment Program
(PIP) acceptable to IDA (para. 92).
td) The Government shall have introduced measures to adjust interest
rates for agricultural credit so that in time they will achieve
real positive interest rates in the longer run (para. 92).
(e) ONAT is achieving full cost recovery for tractor rentals (para.
92).



- 37 -
Annex IV
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Trends in Production, Area Harvested and Yield
for Sorghum and Maize
Production            Area Harvested                Yield
Year       Sorghum    Maize        Sorghum    Maize         Sorghum    Maize
-('000 tons)-           --('000 ha)-             -(tons per ha)-
1970       158.1      122,1        -290.00    133.0            0.55     0.92
1971       128.7       99.4         280.00    102.0            0.46     0.97
1972       149.1      114.9         390.00    1.17.00          0.38     0.98
1973       128.4       98.9         345.00    101.00           0.37     0.98
1974       125.7       96.8         330.00     99.00           0.38     0.98
1975       134.7      103.8         400.00    lub.00           0.34     0.98
1976       139.9      107.6         490.00    119.00           0.29     0.90
1977       145.1      111.3         458.30    150.60          0.32      0.74
1978       141.1      107.7         420.10    148.70           0.34     0.72
1979       140.0      108.2         460.80    147.50          0.30      0.73
Y980       140.0      110.0         456.80    109.00          0.31      1.01
1981       222.0      142.0         517.00    197.00          0.43    .0.72
1982       235.0      150.0         540.00    209.00          0.44      0.72
1983       120.0      235.0         475.00    300.60          0.25      0.78
1984       221.2      270.0         445.00    350.00          0.50      0.77
1985 a/    260.0      280.0         520.00    350.00           0.50     0.80
a/ Estimated
Source: Agriculture Sector Task Force report.



_38-
Am  V
AOaCUZRALSLMAXE          Pa
Matrif  Tocy 1_., StratwOms ad Ation In Agraalturu
SPda  T_ll _
TAkin y Mg______1                      urwte  m                                          InI the RititF4m
Ca) To  &hKe or    l      iopoly pddiW aD            datiao the Pdie    Mc    for Ueel          ontit          iM b(teel 4sndatan
elilmd   the                       I        1rmt of                 fhd old by GE  In       dimu fuel a1ii at         ef fuel Mwir  to  all
ritzltii of          for wow _Wia,la1    s-prencripi'.a             the 'bistin miet at   bader  nriaPr               wietTiftl -. wkicte.
p     ria In  u      Proldm  WAd zIputs     vetmmxyd .              iopott unrity ielw
ad f                   b. bm       L                                mazut           rmte.
mint.    ao to
eladmrte  n-"io   Nirtheluw, a niser    ish uadketlw in             Ams by de orivate                                 Deramattm  f
caastrasn   an      cE contrtla uPfl        Meiddu ha bow           secto to licne to                                 frmidnaue ad
itiml AWAf           rain (e.g. f1.        deiztul.                1Wot aid AI*tribute                               mhrs tra&*
maenmd trade         htd. ad idm,                                   di,d  fuel awd
Mhks. for fertilizer                            9mW ot die 6utic bnti  T,p1mm          t .       Revio IN
r dim gm  In                                   ad eqIPrt s tit            nindatias  fI             otf t miketnor.
decomtolja.                                    ofrlet  i 1  l ad ddiu,   thaf cde dcmtle
fow Szueiddr ad                                ad folIarq  actiom      MIds aid eq
barbidi  Is                                                           tCaEk.
(b) Mo iqrwe dte        ADC no I r ha           AC prom  a floo         The G  %dU Isui a      Omtnsl um of *woea    Uqrvje ,urlketizw
ope-atIanl          wmopoly vamm in         prim for uuin ad   : et af operatin             oerwatia prnd.ai  for    efficiencr In die
-ff iic  ci ddomec stic            ffor    gx31n wrqn hat dde    winS1a abr   atd a          adn wrA=t  ad foal   ldvtod* sector  In
p-)iJe sector       grid.                   flowor  bomed on        lrovhw xain             aid  wme  inaai by d _    dlaretic Ad awit
eatezpuiAe                                    tinsd 1wt aE           uditing ad food  dl  MoSX  m nitln tti   ofuzIret diraud
imoL.a   In                                 pmbc_ti. ad                         Tecldau    c0fects enw m.             raMic inveetist ad
rooInI   AM aId                             a    cl a£tw            inamiste 'dii mint                               hatte   muerdal
md=tiqg of                                  hnv.t.                  RE ard or With                                    p     pctio. it is
ngdm lturd                                                          strungtifitg pite    thldt a tDAY
proLct..                                    A stArt mu samls in     uwumerait, ivarosiw                               to ie flai umfer
ViZDgW dW  effi-        its anie ru*etirg                                 die SVF b
dew of   ibltd    activitia ad                                           taviertirn to rewirnv
wmdiimry taz   e in    establuthiw                                        lvestoc '.rletiz
faor locetian by        operatiami mdloltis tsues frm a
ideif,h  ad intiz    on flor prie,                                       w'urn
out  rqp  for           cdl        pr, mle                                pe ve.
ismno t  ad             c feed ald ad the
ft liz, m  far       dlatribmticn oE
indimxy ad                emSimi pain
e_ldmit.               imorta to nwemt
M be prowidd  to
ida t de pt
cf amdizta  ad
relaublitetiom.



- 39 -
mg= v
No 2
binwl ¶cmdm
ktim     A1f            Aodau 1i.n           Dctia  to ilo            a                      Aom  Ade4jtwl
Strzteff emad-  Tjkm      amthdw AlP I                      kiwo the f.m                pnmIn the Pature
(a) To I.rom the        WS hw Xatly        b         for  long           hnl   ataim          lidam   of a PIP          9trmutl_d *z  of
concribctiat aE die  iupuov   .4 PImpAmudz  mq,laml lsfintt         wLUl I ptouwid  to     acoqsb1a to MI.           u.rtmWmai POIii!
publc lnbin t of pu          tlic 1n_et im    pbmdin. Dm                r   tin utmdm-                               ad 1qm lh_   izvttto-
prqni  to uir.ad-   prq,       "  X-    mow  s _ S amIm     the     dad bl   for aim-    A I1t  af Iztei             tim.. Tmyrcmd
nul gathi.          rt.da    do pubc       jriamlnil macto         ndir in dem ad1d-       std'e to IfA c            mui in am m  *li.-
Lw~        PtMm        repuoct                 banm  motor.           iXultal poliw Md    dtn of (immt- a
(PIP) aid de 05                                                               w.                  t In  rlaulte,
lvrolvc wiih tin                                                                                Ivin4gv d'dew-
lic FoMce eport.PKda f sof r oidat
MPlM  of prqim                                                                                   uliretm.
in lqaroi pimvdi                                                                                If.tme  awl Tidunfed
oE p,llc immuowt.                                                                               muiadtore.
(b) lb lEro   Iat       lb. GM bh    u     In d                                                                          bimimd l- iw    nt
recry aid           plntiple to ant                                                                                  In de   i        of
provlde wfre        mrm    for qrol-                                                                                 cae  In Izmenmtru,
effterstly for      tral Imeat.                                                                                        n .
Tcawrst mao
tudor die Iim-mamintolt                                                                         yqimmi_  of Ind
NW r1     t iotnwa                                                                              t    te adidate
roject, a ma                                                                                    tdtitotiau  iN lad
rewinvezy Syst  for                                                                            tamimt        - a
w:cer and moU                                                                                   wzom,or to Imoral
m,usrwtimi in Ouder                                                                       mourity of te
No aost rwv   In
Irnim.I mae. A
--afl, to m  ftwmRnMd°
uda* the VW, hi
pon   to
- im them 1n.
An action pla int       Tadwiaud insitti
tdwnlf                  li   to 11ea   to
rdIlitat                till le uswab to
tiazIturl nddwmy    imlmz aim uwhb-
at feir        _        Ifet   P
pLw.w ud  AIP I,
ad truintw of moh-
- ata ff.
CHT metaI dure                                                        now to addewe MIl ant    Tne qpezudaul
hoe bem inciW.                                                        tmw,, for tractr          df efic  of PrT.
It am  awl 1i                                                          iman.
the half wDM=dAd
rate.
(c) To LEproue dnr      e lttie Cau=p          Tqol moulmtig   lh nm d            tll T e MutiaM4 smem1di
coordinetion        idim  how hobn         of darn mintaun awl  hold with Musu d                                     ib  of Owiztatiw
held onf  I19                                    ' u cr  bmw to                                 Cam. porm mA
addead .Ae-, uza-    elomw aaduflUttr                                    two'w ai Itiltm
oath. of lk Fonr        of idiEtil f_t                                   at VIP.
toif -- ad dlaLat    far foraim  sadwua
of  IIdaItiIOsU  to     motion u-ler tim                                    -   mni a timtim
oeparmo                                                                  of fmal ai ao-n
was. -    miau
M  plait  with tdi
hiMd Pobo P ralp.



_ 40 -
Po 3
.Sao Truvtku
Atium Alloy               Agt   l  Tin           Acth:i to he Wonm          Ouw1ti1u  for a*       Actim htctet.I
St5ta Obeetw          1      u  by Ms                  der AIP I            liir Om Pirq                                         tn the 1tiTt
M  Mk
(a) lb h prove di        mm Su  Irwuqinn                                   Agreimt Im lm           Ptrm. by the MR al          lhp tned Tle of
availibUty of       ?Aic (t) ad the                                   rd      h r the di.      the LSIM tords             the privte  eetar in
.gr4daltur.l oet   Cmmrd,I ail S&wlp                    o                  the CM  to mm        adeylix Intemat mtiem        r1oaltuze will
ad atanlaemr nral   U.k Of SMile (lS)                                  tards poatdle            to agricularal horu        rear dit duelit
.ap                  am ra*pmalble  n-                                 Interest  taw for        mAdih we positive In       facilLtta for Wu-
pcdively for mnlv                                1vzzowe. In                    temIn the l1i        ChNITI aAtivtleM,
(b) To Improve           mdiui to lat- am                                  agriocltue. The          vri                        erwn treuinz, ewpf-
ntittliii.           dxwtttem 1m    to                                 I,cr_mM  deiult                                     vat  I.lv we tlut
arcaiwmmto fanr     tde  Iodturd1                                       rtw   dred hr the sd mamre tRrleq                                  .
Mriculbral credit   -ect. lrve,  loan                                  DF  ill realt in                                    At prmit the
ad _ulM, Le.   _amat aec tn Is                                         hURer tntereft ratme                                (bmrdlS  NW
to i4arm             poor, fumb  re                                    nm loan to ndler                                    Sa.i,  RF* in the
finaial              amutrum, y  in                                       ate sctmin the                                   only lzvtibition with
Interdlatecm.        In poor, mu Intemt                  e.    ..                                                          a hbrndh stnhcttma.
ratm ae hkelm emct                                                                                    It mme  to ip.
(c) lb brJlw inte.t      rat.  Staeps are                                                                                      strzwwdmd nut
rntm  am Iow  to     hehun tmen to iaprr                                                                                   cloer woxklu
railtue into         die sit.timn aisted        *                                                                          relattianii  soudld
iti with madcot      In part II iby x. In                                                                                  hp FmtstM wLth the
rate.                adittion, to iwrove                                                                                   %ult lvelant
the aumilnIdlity cE                                                                                   Wck. Tlbprowent nf
M    to low-ter.                                                                                     mnU   perfoiwm.
c1it the Sm9 li
tDvegnsum: BUk Is
pLVmd* to oue the
ORmbdl mand Sailw
Bk l   atae
to aepralne mdlz  to
10gw-ternloom. The.
DF prn e
the C06 to tncrme
diepogt rat.. to the
elpetet  ratm  of
Inflation to mtirnAate



- 41 -
Straw Obletve                     bd aE r AIP I                      U       l%e tie           PROVEN                           In the line
(a) To sire the          llr COS t_a elitdtd    am pwflm  Of               A faretm  stmue                                    Ithesulttan of all
avalabltety ao       the ewrntld              Miltses thmu* AV         ants tl ha                                          tt it,
foreis aedia  to   contrl oar the            I to qan letter of       estbItad to iewn                                     tinlun the
pzdue, Inter           dredtw  f isect-      creat for the mnaee    the mIlaWlit'r of                                      im .moet pf
ela, qriitual    idah, lerble£m ad    of tIartI  tins,                 finai r                                             clouirce precedsm
"PAZ to mqqmrt       fertilizera. 1Fi hm    equtpt ad vuchimr    for tie hrart of                                          for ixorted ad
the aqatioUf         leJ  to a nadutaittl  F_m  merest the             unce for dhe 9ami                                  esqxtsA Ore
better tedmoloq      incree In the aail-   UValSiMLA y oEf ti          eanny. The FPngs                                    dehira  por.
stnalatsted b   e    ablity of dIe           nutertflnhthe             will also fatter                                    thei   'terb iatin
imprve price         inata. lie avai-        nudet. A iram             e of  einus de                                      of tlu murte  for all
inentes In ad,-    ability of leprouS        lap  tatar  pertid-    pnrtcictmtm   of                                      getrois pauce.
sectors sudh -        ea  Is atil! a    *    tuud In the Proram.        mlerwtreks by
gratm, fndt           mutrait. The           %'1n asters, 5dit         allwiqUhih ft
praoictta,           privae ector in        lhvis teulstered, swr actii - lea -
fi  ens and          satd ithe  uimtizg   not yet adistime-            S5,arn equivalent.
Iiitodk.             ad dtnlhts   af          elvi of the prqn_m.
riulnal tp.
(b) lb  chieve a         lFe dad        tractor
grater  ndm          aerv     from the
tnwolvemnt of tde    wnaddmty teal
private ector In      nqmr  (QUiT) in
the muietaw  md      outstrippet sapplr
distribtta  of       privte  ractor renta
p-dh i.                 -   hav hew
Cc) To deregilate die                            fluer AIP I the market    Ammi to further                 1helattn of all
veterInary drug                              far nwnprscrtptive        dereadar die                                        veterIey tIn
Idt ad allow                                 dna sill he               veterlmry dnn inlet                                 wricetta  a*diect
private pratce by                            derepuated.               by Imcl11m  ptop                                    onIV to pertt.clwttn
veterbury                                                              atlotics (non-                                      In die  *est hl
professis.                                                             Iniectihle) in the                                  Qualified  00M6
liSt ef snap  it
can he beortet ad                                  iettersari adi
dintriNAtA br                                       licuts of
quitfisl   I tn.sveterirm     to
allw them to
crci  lee1y



- 42 -
AM~ V
Pxge q
Acchm AUuW         Actlmu Mm              Actions to tie TA          Ibmultion for thm       Actlans kaitic,tLwl
StrmtW Gu1uctium            T         b M            Ibt   W A K I-  e t MWONIn the Fdutre
_   ~         a                                5
(a) lYm                  goifl MS in 1ziuwef                               bsdudjl  oin.Ita                                    llaim-eo t if ai
,aiorlty -rm mte    its it~t1vm  to                                    1. to be prowdl"  to                                aulri.lturRI rpowdi
food ca    ad         wr  PI, inub-1wimdm athe tisi-                                                                       wiolicy uAli wll wt-
Now inmq z  In   1w co fooduA   In                      km! bob for                                                        cit the Iu1mi
irrlgtIMi ax16       frrlwdm   m.                                      9mIR. Tia diom                                      hetmenmo nittd  mu
For lt  I   tamn   asturumy, Tindic                                  RAmdt r inmdi                                       irrlants aid rainf#ed
actlow dwold bie     hD bow uiIn !.                                    o1mdzw.                                             crops, IetwaP
idi am to            little M* 1mm tmu                                                                                     ligm.toc MAl crop.,
inpwmreseam.rch      daimea octiod                                                                                         -w lebamik   tioeqc
inpmw dw,elop-         ridrnt    or                                                                                        unvhcttum _ _
int,  - _    ame   P efW deip
tiaui f.             dttOm  to feo_                                                                                        The No& is pl imdTt
Pin.   t pe n   GE     1e.     0 1i0                                                                                 tobd  aprne ahe  h
406   SI          a13uU  -r lxt                                                                                               Ch/mrdu/utauM
iri.grtrn cc dim    CoruiBla                                                                                               poleet In Vr7 WMid
lin     na crpiid oou sa mi die w s
t      o   ad                                                                                                               .msit iwovlaI IT
_fffnww                                                                                                                    other domd
.tast1att
(b) In etem   de the         ?ItIm1   .ratad                                                                                   Ptioue ectetuia
1-2d" pilcety         t     ham deve1qpad                                                                                  prfvrm will ne&I to
In urawiit  eb       in   I   Li do                                                                                        dfvezib Iito  rn-
d   -jI -                                                                                                             fse  rin imltiue Am
6M.  In di           3tin        itff we                                                                                   casb cram. the
I       -r zWIZEZd    beiq td    ad an                                                                                       ior Lule fo both
Uiiad  nai live-     aaimumi oq.Wdintigm                                                                                  reamrd nam et
atok mIdw            Is bIMi put In                                                                                        sim]othe   da th
(b)lm Wm   e t s                N                                                                                            sret  o
iuoie  mIio.Un dun                                                                                                         a . ci d xu wrf to 
'tOiA' - pine        tfo  An 1.2y                                                                                          tim  form.ceraiciwel.
ats Ia im                         In inyt-                                                                                Uideas yrn.iuahle
peog; Lo kad ;t1m am ad is z*iae_                                                                                                  tdirotid die
suppot hile at       qilne antr. i                                                                                         twiinl WNern'mit
fti  Wm  tim         1mc in    -       die                                                                                 peite am. xwdl-
I  ild  ..-               b t1   inw                                                                                      dAbe, it In iLtlrelV
LE deivey.           deelnwmt cE a                                                                                         a viine reomrch/
amodim qinm                                                                                          etaudn svutem wvUlI
evolve. At the onie
ti-e emici&er tn
enaa illv, wk adv
vowlv traner.
twiee mn domd
utwenkt attto



- 43 -
Annex VI
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Distribution of Formal Credit to Agricultural Sector in Soalia- a/
(So.Sh. million)
A. Distribution Between Sub-Sectors
End of
Year                Agriculture       Livestock       Fishery      Total
1980                   175.6            141.6           30.7       348.8
1981                   285.0            228.6           21.0       534.6
1982                   311.5            378.7           33.0       723.2
1983                   182.2            476.2           21.0       679.4
1984                   214.0            904.4            7.0     1,125.4
B. Distribution Between Public and Private Sectors
Public Sector                 Private Sector
End of   Agri-     Live-               Agri-      Live-
Year     culture   stock   Fishery    culture   stock   Flbery    Total a/
1980       98.0    104.0      21.0       78.5       37.7     9.7      348.9
1981      171.0    162.0      15.0      113.7       66.6     6.0      534.3
1982      104.0    152.0      13.0      204.6      226.0    20.0      719.6
1983       38.0    139.0       7.0      144.2     337.2    15.0       680.4
1984       22.0    166.0       -        192.0     738.4      6.0    1,124.4
a/  Balances outstanding at the end of the year.
h/  Totals in Part (B) may not be equal to those in Pert (A) because of
rounding.
Source: Osman H. YUBUf and Abdulkadip Aden Sheikh 4gricultural Credit In
Somalia,' paper prep,red for Task Force Report No. 4.



- 44 -
A    vII
AGICUUMBL     AXM~IEDWE ROL
Brmlrzm b9 TMpe of Expwditum i    the Varln  1985 AIP/CIP Program
IM - AIPI   lFWAIP I    vEW CIP a/   MALY        ok      IISA CIP
PuN   Sector
Smli Petrole  Apncy                   4,OOD            -    -             8,497        -      9,200
Minstry of Ivestodc                      -           430          -           -        -          -
MLnistry at 4rlialtLe                    -          1,960         -       3,591        -          -
NLristry of PFEshwes                     -           310          -          W         -          -
M[naistry oE IHa_th                      -             -                    474        -          -
rnstry aof Telsoam                              -           -                 -        -        50D
Ministries oE F c lbrk, Fnioe            -             -          -       4,025        -        5CO
Tabmzr , Tumras, Interior, & the Pcesidency
ikter 10-y                                -            -                               -        850
Private Sector
Irriation Equipmnnt                      85            -          -           -        -      1,606
Vete,nary D                              -           500          -           -        -        520
Chuical, Padcglrg & uroe Pl1nt          200                                       - -  -          -
ertillzesan d S                          -           500          -           -        -        100
Mitca                                 1.546          500       3,070          -        -          -
1actor & Sp.E.                        2,146            -          -       1,480        -      1,350
Agric. Equip                          2,019            -          -           -        -        150
O .stru      MterIal Il. ITer &          -             -                  4,791        -          -
1w MsterJal for V8cin  lhuEam±wdrg       -             -                  2,219        -      2,910
Steel                                    -      -           -                 -        -      3,395
Flshtg equpme                            -             -          -           -        -        570
=ic Enterprices
sbipp1zg                                 -             -      2,047           -        -          -
NA1MD                                    -             -      2,047           -        -          -
Pblice force                             -             -      1,024           -        -          -
JubusarCX.                               -             -          -         444      300          -
Agric. lkmtzy                            -             -          -         971        -      1,936
snaiU Tactiae                            -             -          -         327        -        500
SAIl                                     -             -          -         609        -        265
Ukm of  otecne wop.                      -             -          -         947        -          -
Central Bak                              -             -          -       1,000        -          -
ENEE  -      -          -        1,073       -          -
WAGiD                                    -             -          -         990        -          -
Imm.nrw & lmdidz_ -                                    -          -         467        -          -
(bOntructiom ihterial                    -             -          -         425        -          -
Unauud.tted                              -         7,680                  2,520        -      2,648
1TrAL                              9,9S6        12,000      8,188      35,000      300     27,000
a/ lb su;Iort fw qrlcdtural 'lp.



_ 45 -
Annex VIII
SONATA
__C   ABASTP   PGRAM
Estimsted Food Aid to SaoulIa and Refigees. 1980-1988
(in uzllions of dolars)
1980   1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Total Food aid                  65.9  104.7  91.5  88.9  85.3  89.3  98.0  100.7  103.4
WFP adndnistered              13.0  38.3  45.9  32.3  30.1  29.6  36.4  38.2  40.1
Dnonr direct                  52.9  66.4  45.6  56.6  55.1  59.7  61.6  62.5  63.3
Total Food Aid                  65.9  104.6  91.5  88.9  85.2  89.3  98.0  100.7  103.4
Refugee                        59.2  58.7  57.7  35.6  33.5  44.3  53.0  55.7  58.4
Saofla                        6.7  45.9  33.8  53.3  51.7  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0
-P aidministered food aid       13.0  38.3  45.9  32.3  30.1  29.6  36.4  38.2  40.1
lWP direct aid to refugees     4.8   9.4  23.6  19.6  19.8  18.7  22.5  23.6  24.8
WFPadbndn donor ald to refs    1.5   9.3   4.3   2.8   -    2.0   3.0   3.2   3.4
Raireland dev. & refrescatic   3.1   3.5   5.2   1.7  8.2   1.6  2.7   2.8   3.0
ssettlment pco4ects            3.6   3.9   3.9   3.9   0.3   1.5   -        -      -
InnSiutd lnal feediug          -      3       .8   2.2   1.0  2.7   3.5   3.6   3.6
2     5.1   2.1   3.8  3.1   4.7   5.0   5.3
Direct dooor food aid           52.9  86.4  45.6  56.6  55.1  59.7  61.6  62.5  63.0
1efugees                      52.9  39.9  29.8  13.2  13.7  23
Scnnlia                        -     26.5  15.8  43.4  41.
Food aid to refugees            59.2  58.7  57.7  35.6  33.5  44.3  53.0  55.7  58.4
WFP direct                     4.8   9.4  23.6  19.6  19.8  18.7  22.5  23.6  24.8
WFP administered               1.5   9.3   4.3   2.8   -        2.0  3.0   3.2   3.4
Dbnr direct                   52.9  39.9  29.8  13.2  13.7  23.6  27.5  28.9  30.2
Food aid to Scmlaian             6.7  46.D  33.8  53.3  51.7  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0
WFP                            6.7   19.5  18.0   9.9  10.3   89  10.9   11.4  11.9
Dboors                         -     26.5  15.8  43.4  41.4  36.1  34.1  33.6  33.1
Source:  fl.i.stry of National Planinmg, Natioml Development Strategy September 1985.



-46-
Annex IX
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. List of Items Ineligible Under Part A
SITC         SITC
Group      Sub-Groua                    Description of Items
112            -              Alcoholic beverages
121            -              Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
122            -              Tobacco, manufactured
667            -              Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
688            -              Uranium depleted in U235 and thorium, and
their alloys, unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.; waste and scrap
of uranium depleted in U235 and of thorium
718          718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, n.e.s.
897          897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
Construction materials for urban housing
Expenditures for goods intended for a
military or para-military purpose or for
private or public luxury consumption.
Payments made for expenditures prior to
date of the Credit Agreement
Payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or &upply thereof.



I B R D 15413R
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATE                               a                                              r. RATI
REPU9BLIC OF YEMEN
-12.            /- DJIBOUTI                                                       Gulf    of    Adon                                         -Br,d          12,,
i      st_  0JIUtUTIJ  _o
B                                                                         A                                     Bwo Beao o
;Durpsl~ ~~~ - L \     as-Kaio         Z          '-           e
MDIt,b  -ulej(a~t    - 
_^.                                                    -*1                   jZ    '44"'        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~k013. 
Tug  WalaIl       r  Ma,rBw    w   i.
Wd  LosAnod         /       j, -,
SOMALIA
REGIONS AND DISTRICTS
- ,Ulj%IU4QIUS SUIFACDII ROADS
GRAVFLIFARIN SLJRACYD R0ADS
4 ,   .JO  PORTS
+      DOMESTIC AlRfIELDS
*      IRfITERATINOIAL AIRFIELDS                                V/
RIVERS
-DISTRICT ROIJNDARS I
REG-Of RO*JUiDARI-5
INTERNATIONAL ROJARIES                                        vs        /t
/   > OCLO.   I.ANAN    -                                  RIJIO'A   RIP;. '.A^l    tKIT
-~~~~ -/~~~~~~~   ~~~~  5    ii ~         ~     ~     L U
K        H o r                             B uE ,A R r   A k 4   St   L  4 P '   E l   B u r
)."L.   AfDt;rauI           Ro R            ML.OI                                                                Nft.ffe s    e a   :F
!UA1 -< DIS.'U A S                                                                                                   SAUDI AIR A B IDA j 2
- DUE~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                     ILMTR
Sc A elor~~                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    *YME SU DACf_RLPt -              -
AFMADIJ           DUALFT\ .N A.                                                                                         lA
r t;-' ?:   $                                                                                g  ,, Drl
_o  t   "       t          z                                                                            o._     s    E TG.  1 0AUDI A     RAB;' IA
\   \/  ,g          s                   -                                                                       K EugNNYSUDA1/
\Bodbdef  .~~~~~-   -   .  .                                                 B      \       t~~/'   fPJO(AN   OCEAN   .
- .'   \/  , .'   . -'    - f   -44'                                                   4|t       '.~~~~~~~~~~ANZANIA   >
: =~ ~ ~~~~AFID



- 47 -
Annex IX
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A                          B. List of Items Eligible Under Part B
1. Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) (US$2.25 million)
(a) Machinery and equipment for the Department of Land and Water
(b) Plant protection needs
(c) Strengthening of Department of Planning and Training
2. Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR) (US$2.25 million)
(a)  Machinery and equipment for ruminant research studies at Afgoy and
Balad
(b)  Inputs for pilot poultry production project
(c)  Equipment and spare parts for feed mill
'd)  Office equipment and supplies for Serum Institute
(e)  Transport equipment (one bus, ten motor scooters)
(f)  Teaching equipment and textbook for School of Animal Science
3. Ministry of Fisheries (US$0.5 million)
(a)  Fishing gear
(b)  Cold storage units (20 tons maximum)
Cc). Mobile ice making machinery
(d) Refrigeration containers
(e)  Two trailers for transportation of (d) above
(f)  Three small trucks for fish collection and distribution
Expected.Disbursements
Year 1      Year 2      Total
---US$ millions           -
MOA                   1.0          1.25       2.25
MLFR                  1.0         1.25        2.25
Fisheries             0.2         0.3         0.5
2.2         2.8         5.0



Annex X
E'age 
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Implementation of the Program
1.        The Government would publicize the Program through advertising
it in the local press, on radio and television. This is proposed to he
done through the offices of the CSBS. This annex outlines the organization
and management of the program.
2.        Funding for the program is mainly through a foreign exchange
auction. The administrative arrangements for the foreign exchange auction
(e.g. mechanics of the auction process, size of bid, deposit and
documentation requirements) are to be agreed by the GOS and IDA following
the receipt of advice from the IMF. It has been agreed, however, that any
private individual or group of individuals, and puHlic sector enterprises
except SOMPET, wishing to obtain foreign exchange for imports would be
eligible to submit bids at the foreign exchange auction. Ar:tions would be
managed by a Foreign Exchange Auction Committee (FEAC).  This committee may
an-nounce the funds available for auction. The compo~sition of the FEAC was
discussed with the GOS at negotiations. It may include representatives
from the Central Bank, and the Ministries of Finance and Commerce and
Industry, and be supported by a Secretariat. The resident representative
of the IMF in Somalia may be an observer on the FEAC. The Central Bank
would not be permitted to bid at auctions except to defend a reserve
price.  It is expected that auctions would be held bi-monthly, but the
frequency would be determined by the FEAC as would the amounts to be
auctioned. The Credit Agreements provide for a review of the auction
arrangements six months after the date of the first auction to determine if
any changes in arrangements should be introduced.
3.        The Procurement Unit (PU) established under AIP I would continue
to administer the implementation of Parts A and B of the Credit on behalf
of the Minister of Finance. The PU would be supported by one full-time
Ministry of Finance staff member as well as one full-time CSBS staff
member, both of whom would assist the unit in the smooth operation of its
daily activities and to serve as liaison staff with the Ministry of Finance
and CSBS, while at the same time being exposed to procurement work and
on-the-job training.
Part A of the Program
4.        All imports under Part A of the Program would be paid for through
letters of credit. Successful bidders at the foreign exchange auctions
would be notified of the funds allocated to him or her and the exchange
rate applicable. Thereafter, the bidder would request the PU's concurrence
in order to open a letter of credit. The final arrangements for use of the
funds are still under discussion, but it is possible that initially the
following information would need to be provided.



- 49 -                         Annex X
Page 2
5.        The PU would verify that the prospective importer:
(i) has an eligible qtuote (not on negative list, countrv of
origin, etc.);
(ii) has a reasonably priced or hest evaluated aqote;
(iii) is opening the letter of credit within the 45-day
utilization period stipulated by the FEAC; and
(iv) has deposited a total of 50 percent Somali Shilling
equivalent with CSBS required for opening of letter of
credit under the Credit Agreements for this Program..
6.        Once the PU has verified the compliance with the above, the
Ministry of Finance would issue a letter to CSBS authorizing the opening of
the letter of credit and thereby activating the commercial aspects of the
import transaction.
7.        SOMPET imports under Part A of the program would be handled
similarly to the procedures applicable to other public enterprises with the
exception that SOMPET would not participate in the auctions, hut use the
market exchange rate determined at the most recent auction as the rate for
opening letters of credit. A 50 percent minimum downpayment would be made
at the time of opening a letter of credit.
8..       Imports transacted prior to the start of the foreign exchange
auctions and for which reimbursement would be requested, would be subject
to the procurement procedures as outlined in paras. 93 to 96.
Part B of the Program
9.        Part B would be utilized by the Government for inputs listed in
Annex IX. The Ministries of Agriculture. Livestock and Fisheries would
submit their requests to the PU for processing. The PU would then obtain
quotes or prepare tender documents as appropriate and arrange for their
publitation and in due course would assist the Ministries in the evaluation
of tenders. Payments would be made through letters of credit.
Part C of the Program
10.     - The various Technical Assistance components would he administered
through the implementing agencies. An estimated 156 man-months of
long-term and 32 man-months of short-term consultancies would be involved.
All terms of reference under any of these activities would he subject to
IDA approval.



50 -                         Anutex X
Page I
Disbursements
11.       For each source of funds, separate accuunts would be opened to
implement the Program and to facilitate disbursements.
(i) For Parts A and B, the Government would open Special Accounts
with an international commercial bank which would he one of
CSBS's correspondent banks. At the Borrower's request IDA would
deposit from the Credits' proceeds USS7.0 million into these
accounts which is estimated to be the equivalent of five to six
months disbursements under the first tranche. On a regular basis
the Borrower would request IDA to replenish the account until the
funds are fully utilized. CSBS would open letters of credit for
all imports under Part A of the Credit.  For L/C's under S200,nnn
equivalent, the Special Accounts' funds would he used. Letters
o' credit over $200,000 equivalent would be guaranteed directly
by IDA. Along the procedures established under AIP I, the
international commercial bank would obtain IDA concurrence prior
to guaranteeing an L/C. GOS would ensure that on a monthly hasis
the international commercial bank would submit to IDA and CSBS a
status report of the Special Accounts, a copy of the same
statement would be sent to the PU in order for them to monitor
the commitments and disbursements and arrange for appropriate and
timely replenishments.  Any charges levied by CSRS for
administering the letters of credit would be charged to the
account of the importer.
(ii) The CSBS would maintain a Somali Shilling account into which the
importers would deposit the counterpart funds. The account would
be kept in the name of the Ministry of Finance and used to
finance budgeted expenditures. CSBS would advise the Procurement
Unit on a monthly basis of any transactions in the account.
(iii) The PU would maintain a local currency account with the CSRS
funded by GOS for payment of its urgently needed local operating
expenditures as well as salaries for national staff. In.
addition, GOS would continue to provide the PU with office space,
transportation, etc., as established under AIP I.
(iv) For Part C, the disbursements would be coordinated through the
Ministry of Finance and the PU.  The Borrower would open a
Special Account with an international commercial bank into which
the Association would deposit at the Borrowers request an amoum nt
of USS500,000 to cover the first six months of estimated
disbursement. The different institutions involved (Ministry of
Finance, ADC, ENC, MNP and ONAT) would Present the various
payment requests to the Ministry of Finance which would then
arrange for payments through this Special Account. The
international commercial bank would provide the Ministry of
Fi,nance on a monthly basis with a status report of the account so
that timely replenishments can be arranged. OS agreed during
negotiations that the Association would receive a monthly status
report on this Special Account.



- 51 -
SOMALIA                               FIGURE I
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM
Trends in Production, Area Harvested and Yields of Maize
SOMALIAi  TRENOS IN PRODUCTION OF MAIZE
3_     ,    .   .,           * .  .  . .              
2J_ -  1707-19Ml                 1070-101;/ 
x   (.0M PA)                  (C. OX PA) 
so s-                                  CQA  A
RStl. - 6.672
?S 74I    197Z    10,74    I19701   1O70    IS      IS 2     11
SOMALIAt TRENDS IN AREA HARVESTED Of MAIZE
>               ISt79tWS _.    7
(I ~~~~~~~~~lOX  PA.)
so    .            .    .   .            .   .      .      .   6. 1 .
sno7    1e7z    1874    1si70    1e70    lowa    10ez       leo'4
SOMALIA: TRENIDS IN YIELDS OF MAIZE
1.4
lZ R-SQ.   2.36 
\
.6                                      CI2.A       1    P
R-S4.   97- -s 0
466~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
14-lost-low .                                        A
CZ. 7X PA.)SG.- 686
076    2972     1974     876    1876      18      186       864
NE  Frr        RSOrH PATHS ARENS O   YEAL FDe YOFCMAZ
M A-     CT EX  - NTt)AL BASE.
8 - ALAU  GROWTH RAME Y - PMODUCT. X - TE



- S2 -
SOMALIA                           FIGURE 2
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Trends in Production, Area Harvested and Yields of Sorghum
SOMALIA  TRENDS IN  PRODUCTION OF SORGHUM
C1 97S-S)
o         C~~~2. SX PA3
CO.X ~ ~ ~ ~~A  PA) 
tt *         f .   .   .  Qtl. _  .
iO7S   70 172    2174    1976      17       16      t96      19a4
SOMALIAs TRENDS IN AREA HARVESTED OF SORGHUM
C 1 970-S)
-~~ .                       ,  L.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .--_
C-I .CX PA)
_ R-SO. -6.137
11979-19W
_ _ C3.OX PA_
l-SO. - 6.071
C4. 9X PA3
="   .   -S. .G. am                . . .
-91078  1972     1974     9 76    1976    1960    1962    1964
SOMALIA: TRENDS IN YIELDS OF SORGHUM
C 1 978-45)
.4a. a -      rtr            * --    r   .      - -- 170-19     -
C-q.4X PA)
C4.2X PA)                        C_42 PAS
R*W. e- 81         2-.0. - 8.744
70 4o7            t07                             fti  ft7  s   Oe 
WM, F.L fmE GRDI PATS ARE Of 6ENtL FO0t- Y-AaCWl8XPC
HRE A - CONSTA   EXP -  ^TURAL BAF_
-SR - A                           RAr-S. x- 6.74



I BR D 15413R
.EOPLS  EMOATIC                                  -     - -
.f    '           -  .  ; . .; REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-Ir          s .DJIBOUTIH                                                      vfo    Acf                        ,--Is                                 "
/                                             Gulf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of  A'ef&n
Condo          AiJ-  A
Igav.             I
U                              l~~~~~~~~ ~~ug MbioI  11I
SOMALIA
REGIONS AND DISTRICTS
R1TUMINIPOIS SURFACFD RODS0                                       to
GRAVEUEART4 SURFACED ROADS                 .       _                   I 
MAJO  ORTS M/ O- 
+     DOMESTIC AlIRFIELDS
*      SINTERNATIONAL AIRFIELDS
RIVERS                                              °r
DISTRICT E11LIFDARIES
REOIW4 ROJIDARIES
- - TIRIRATIONALt ROUJ DARIES                                  .       i
'I   -      ,\                                        - -    -      9t                 ic
*/  ...PAIIU,L ..r.......JBII¶                                      A4.||-'eAIIA                0    ?J0   WD0  150   200   250   300
F                               I Hr  -irbBur   .kobF  _,,        0C.AD !  -    ,
; r 1 \i   -  i      Il                                                                       ^C;c-Jlp _   1 _
- .-~  OMANl^Et {
-0F'-- A- ~, 50i         IfAt /-4 B-s -                                                                                   ,
AR              SAUDKENYA   I  A
\ N              SUA- . 0 - W \   :NTIIAN   OCEAN-
r.-                                                                                         -  _  _  _  _ -   _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



