CREDIT NUMBER 1711-SO
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       v' cs-r&                 , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1711-SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       /         &Z( /  1986, between SOMALI
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
African Facility) established by their Resolution No. IDA-85-1 of
May 21, 1985, of the Executive Directors of the Assoc' ition to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Program, and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association, as Administrator of the Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (Special Facility Credit Agree-
ment), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in
an aggregate principal amount of SDR 28,700,000 (the Special
Facility Credit);
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United
Kingdom a grant in the amount of pounds sterling five million
(F5,000,000) equivalent out of the Special Joint Financing
provided under paragraph 9 of the Resolution to assist in
financing the same Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower in
support of the Program upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "ADC" means the Agricultural Development Corporation
established pursuant to Law Number 60 of September 8, 1970;
(c) "ENC" means the Ente Nazionale Commercio established
pursuant to Law Number 33 of July 7, 1970;
(d) "MLFR" means the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and
Range;
(e) "MNP" means the Ministry of National Planning;
(f) "ONAT" means the Organizzazione Nazionale Agricultura
Trattore (a tractor hire agency) established pursuant to Law
Number 10 of October 1, 1963 as amended by Law Number 23 of
November 18, 1963;
(g) "CSBS" means the Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
established pursuant to Law Number 1 of December 11, 1970;
(h) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC Rev. 2) published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981); and
(i)  "SOMPET" means the Somali Petroleum Agency, established
pursuant to Law No. 29 of March 10, 1973.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty six million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,400,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and B
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
(the Import Special Account A) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall 'e made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part C of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account (the
Technical Assistance Special Account) in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.     The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably re test; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1996, and ending May 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the relevant government ministries and
agencies referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to provide
to the consultants to be employed under the Project the necessary
facilities and assistance to enable such consultants to carry out
their duties.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain in
the CSBS, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, a
Project Account in which shall be deposited the local currency
proceeds generated from the sale of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause: (a) ONAT to
gradually set rental rates of all machinery and equipment at such
a level so as to ensure full cost recovery, including coverage of
costs for operation and appropriate maintenance, of depreciation,
charges and repayment of debt as far as such repayment exceeds
depreciation; and (b) ONAT to adjust such rates periodically to
reflect actual costs.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1987 submit to the Association for comments and review
operational guidelines for improving the efficiency and effec-
tiveness of ADC and ENC; and (b) cause ADC and ENC to implement
the guidelines taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to set the domestic price of diesel fuel at levels equivalent to
at least the c.i.f. price based on a formula acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall submit to the Association
for review and approval and promptly thereafter implement or
cause the implementation of operating principles on:
(a) a minimum buying price by ADC for maize and sorghum
which shall be based on the long-term trend in export prices at
the prevailing market exchange rate and announced not later than
April 30 each year;
(b) the use by ADC and ENC of predetermined floor prices at
auctions based on the cost of commercial imports of all food
grains and flour imports; and
(c) a price for concessional grain and flour imports to be
sold to institutions and agencies of the Borrower at no less than
the prices determined at the most recent food aid auctions.


﻿-6-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all appropriate
measures, to ensure that qualified private importers and other
individuals are allowed to import and to trade in topical anti-
biotics (non-injectible) and other approved veterinary drugs for
livestock.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out a study of
the hides and skins, leather and leather products industry which
shall, inter alia, examine (i) the efficiency of the hides and
skins, leather and leather products industry, and (ii) the impact
of the greater participation of private individuals and companies
in the domestic and export trade of such products; and (b) not
later than December 31, 1986, furnish to the Association for
review and comments a report and recommendations of the study.
Section 3.11. The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project. To that end,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project, in such detail and at such times as the Association
shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Accounts, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after


﻿-7-
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-8-
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Project, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit or
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (a) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (b)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and con-
ditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provl.so of para-
graph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has established administrative arrange-
ments for the operation of the foreign exchange auction system
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-9-
(b) the Borrower has opened the Project Account pursuant to
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower has set the domestic price of diesel fuel
at levels equivalent to c.i.f. prices pursuant to Section 3.07 of
this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower has submitted to the Association operating
principles pursuant to Section 3.08 -f this Agreement;
(e) the Borrower has taken all appropriate measures to de-
regulate trade in veterinary drugs pursuant to Section 3.09 of
this Agreement;
(f) the Borrower has taken or has caused appropriate policy
measures to be taken so as to achieve positive interest rates for
agricultural credit; and
(g) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic
Mogadishu, Somalia


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              612 MINFIN
Mogadishu                           Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By  /            Ptk/         &-~~u
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Byj  4151At 1fUd0d
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Importation of Goods
and Materials by
Public & Private
Sector Enterprises
under Part A of the
Project:
(a) goods and             17,600,000         100% of foreign
materials                               expenditures
(b) Diesel fuel and        5,900,000         100% of foreign
lubricants to                           expenditures
be imported
by SOMPET
(2) Importation of Inputs       1,500,000         100% of foreign
by the Borrower under                        expenditures
Part B of the Project
(3) Consultants' Services       1,400,000         100% of foreign
under Part C of the                          expenditures
Project
TOTAL                26,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in a currency other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
except to the extent as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made from Category (1) in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco
refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls,   precious  and   semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium,   and  their   alloys,
unwrought   or   wrought,   and
articles    therefor,   n.e.s.;
waste  and   scrap  of  uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear  reactors,   and  parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry  of   gold,  silver  or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths'   or  silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-       971.0              Gold, non-monetary   (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures for building construction materials for
urban housing;
(c) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for private or public luxury consump-
tion;


﻿- 13 -
(d) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the
Credit Agreement; and
(e) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no special commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others after
the aggregate of the proceeds under Categories (1) and (2) of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of
such commitments under the same Categories shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 12,500,000 unless the Association shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section
3.11 of the Credit Agreement with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, and in particular
the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support the macro-
economic reforms currently being undertaken by the Borrower; (ii)
assist the Borrower to develop and enlarge the participation of
the private sector in the economy including an improved supply
and distribution of agricultural inputs; and (iii) strengthen
institutions responsible for carrying out the economic and policy
reforms in the agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports for the Private and Public Sector Enterprises
Provision of foreign exchange for the: (i) importation of
goods and materials; and (ii) importation of diesel fuel and
lubricants by SOMPET.
Part B:   Imports for the Borrower
Provision of foreign exchange for:
1. the following imports for the Ministry of Agriculture:
(i) machinery and equipment, and (ii) plant protection
supplies and equipment;
2. the following imports for the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range (i) machinery and equipment for
ruminant research studies at Afgoy and Balad, (ii)
equipment for poultry production, (iii) milling equip-
ment and spare parts, (iv) office equipment and supplies
for the Serum Institute, (v) transportation equipment,
and (vi) teaching equipment and textbooks for the School
of Animal Science; and
3. importation for the Ministry of Fisheries, of the fol-
lowing items: (i) fishing gear, (ii) cold storage units,
(iii) mobile ice-making machines, (iv) refrigeration
containers, (v) trailers, and (vi) trucks for fish col-
lection and distribution.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:   Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance:
1.   for the rehabilitation of agricultural equipment and
machinery at Kurtun Warrey, Sablalle, Shalambod and
Geenale;
2.   to ONAT (i) to assess rental charges of tractors and
other equipment for full cost recovery, and (ii) for
the rehabilitation of equipment and the improvement of
efficiency of ONAT;
3.   to the Ministry of National Planning to assist in
carrying out household budget surveys, preparation and
analysis of trade data and national accounts, conduct-
ing in-service training, design of an agricultural/
livestock census and provision of overseas training for
staff of the Ministry;
4.   to the Ministry of Finance for (i) maintaining the pro-
curement unit, (ii) conducting in-service training for
staff of the Ministry, and (iii) assisting the Ministry
with its operations; and
5.   for assisting in the preparation of operational guide-
lines for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
ADC and ENC.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Modified International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in May 1985 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), subject to the following modifi-
cations:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines that are
potential suppliers of the gcods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a   further  alternative, bidding   documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single


﻿- 17 -
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items to be procured by the Private Sector and Public Sector
Enterprises under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines.
2.   Items to be procured by the Ministries under Part B of the
Project estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three sup-
pliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with pro-
cedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (exclud-
ing paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Contracts for goods to be procured by the Private Sector and
Public Sector Enterprises under Part A of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 each, shall be awar-
ded on the basis of normal procurement procedures for the pur-
chase of such goods.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Parts B.1 and B.2 above,
items under Part A of the Project may be procured under direct
contracting methods in accordance with Paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines in the following circumstances:
(i) if the importer is the supplier's authorized
distributor or dealer; or
(ii) if the importer is precluded from buying from
another supplier; or
(iii) if   the  importer  is   purchasing  a  brand  name
commodity from a supplier who is the exclusive
distributor of that commodity.


﻿- 18 -
Part C: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to contracts for the importation of diesel
fuel and lubricants under Part A (ii) and for contracts under
Part B of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such cort;ract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedim.es shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles   and   procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
List of actions to be taken by the Borrower pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
The Borrower shall have:
1.   furnished to the Association a plan of action, acceptable to
the Association, for the implementation   of the recommendations
of the study carried out pursuant to Section 3.10 of this
Agreement;
2.   submitted to the Association a Letter of Intent, acceptable
to the Association, on agricultural policy and investment;
3.   submitted to the Association a Public Investment Program
acceptable to the Association;
4.   taken all appropriate measures necessary to adjust the
interest rate for agricultural credit to levels such that they
achieve real positive interest rates in the longer run; and
5.   implemented Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Implementation of the Project components will be carried out
as follows:
A.   Part A of the Project
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall, in carrying out Part A of the Project, adopt the
following procedures:
1.   Foreign Exchange Auction System
Public and private sector importers (except SOMPET) shall
obtain foreign currencies through the foreign exchange auction
system which shall operate as follows:
(i) a   Foreign  Exchange   Auction  Committee  (FEAC),
acceptable to the Association, shall be estab-
lished within the Central Bank of Somalia to
administer the auction system;
(ii) requests for foreign exchange shall be made to
FEAC;
(iii) the Central Bank of Somalia shall hold at least a
monthly auction of foreign exchange;
(iv) the exchange rate at each auction shall be deter-
mined by the marginal bid which exhausts the
foreign exchange available in that particular auc-
tion;
(v) importers shall be required to open Letters of
Credit within 45 days after the auction date; and
(vi) the Borrower shall take appropriate measures to
ensure that the proceeds of the Credit shall be
allocated only for the importation of goods and
materials under Part A of the Project.
2.   Importation of diesel fuel and lubricants by SOMPET under
Part A (ii) of the Project shall be based on the exchange rate
determined at the most recent foreign exchange auction.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Part B of the Project - Imports by the Borrower
All imports by the Ministries of the Borrower under Part B
of the Project shall be processed at the official exchange rate
prevailing at the time of opening the Letter of Credit.
C.   Functions of the Procurement Unit (PU)
Notwithstanding the above, all imports under the Project
shall be reviewed with the assistance of the Procurement Unit in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 6
The Import Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a)
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out ol the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 23 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow  such  procedures   as  the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 24 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 7
The Technical Assistance
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Category (3) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or dep-sits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 'hall
have requested.
(b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 26 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible   Categories  shall  follow   such  procedures   as  the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 27 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   Ii8     day of
198  O.
FOR SECRETARY


